extensive tour
proper, painstaking, and very serious, a very
 conservative man in every respect,
many heavy burdens,
 responsibilities and disappointments, that made a severe demand on her
 nervous system and physical force.
He
 was very concerned with appearances,
he wanted everything to be very proper.
fine executive ability
remarkable managerial skill.
She was
 an unusually capable woman. . . . She had the capacity of managing large
 enterprises . . . a true daughter of the true Southern gentry.
efficient and devoted
one of the most charming and
 cultured young ladies of the community.
nervous
 breakdown
azure chicory
the wildest, most rugged and romantic country to
 be found in the mountains of Virginia or West Virginia
mean force and
 ignorance,
a community of scholars,
having to learn from the world’s knowledge rather
 than the knowledge of the immediate community
a challenge.
a public-school thinker.
almost scary but nice
Mother was a
 natural teacher,
She liked to read, she liked to teach. She
 wasn’t just a housewife.
He never gave Johnny a coloring book. He gave him science
 books.
improvement in effort, study habits and respect for the rules.
monopolizing the class discussion,
There’s nothing to it,
Static electricity,
well
 rounded
they got up at the wee hours of
 the night,
They thought it was very important in helping
 make him well rounded. With a brain like John’s, it seemed even more
 important. My mother and father didn’t want him to be inside all the time
 with his hobbies and inventions.
He was always looking for different ways to do
 things,
the ludicrous untruth of the traditional portrait of the
 mathematician
slovenly dreamer totally devoid of common sense.
How many of the great mathematicians have been perverts?
Some lived celibate lives, usually on account of
 economic disabilities, but the majority were happily married. . . . The only
 mathematician discussed here whose life might offer something of interest to
 a Freudian is Pascal.
quiet, laborious and uneventful,
the higher arithmetic.
investigates the
 mutual relationships of those common whole numbers, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 . . .
 which we utter almost as soon as we learn to talk.
wonder
It was this discovery . . . which induced the young man to choose
 mathematics instead of philology as his life work.
He was teased more than average — simply because he was so far
 out,
What he thought of as experimenting, we thought of as crazy. We called
 him Big Brains.
enjoyed torturing animals.
laboratory,
I’ve
 just made some nitroglycerin,
to go down to Crystal Rock and throw it over the
 cliff to see what would happen.
Luckily,
it didn’t work. He would have blown off the whole side of the mountain.
lively sense, in
 reality, of his actual position in the human hierarchy
He was
 just an outstanding problem solver,
When I put a chemistry problem up on
 the blackboard, all the students would get out a pencil and a piece of paper.
 John wouldn’t move. He would stare at the formula on the board, then stand
 up politely and tell us the answer. He could do it all in his head. He never
 even took out a pencil or a piece of paper.
We
 were attracted to him. He was an interesting guy. That was sort of it. I don’t
 think we ever went over to John’s house. It was pretty much of a school
 thing.
We spent many mornings taking those tests,
We kind of
 got drug into it by Nash,
Even I could see that wouldn’t have worked.
When I came this place was really very backward.
The theoretical sciences were being pushed very hard,
Doherty was trying to take CT into the
 big time.
I reacted negatively to
 the regimentation,
He refused to do the
 problems the way the professor expected.
It was not a matter of how well one could think . . . but of
 how well one could handle a pipette and perform titration in the
 laboratory.
bringing coals to Newcastle.
a young Gauss.
We were all nerds back in our high schools and here we were able
 to talk to one another.
He was a country
 boy, unsophisticated even by our standards,
He wanted to talk about the theoretical aspects.
He was extremely lonely,
He was the butt of people’s jokes because he
 was different,
Here was a
 guy who was socially underdeveloped and acting much younger. You do
 what you can to make his life miserable,
We tormented
poor John. We were very unkind. We were obnoxious. We sensed he had a
 mental problem.
Gee, if we got
 trapped down here we’d have to turn homo.
Homo
Nash-Mo.
Once the statement was made,
it stuck. John took a lot.
A bunch of us crowded
 around John’s door and blew the smoke under it,
Almost
 instantaneously, his room filled up with cigarette smoke.
He came roaring out of his room, picked up Jack [Wachtman], and
 threw him down on the bed,
He ripped off Wachtman’s shirt
 and bit him in the back. Then he ran out of the room.
 ‘You stupid fool,’ he’d say,
He was
 openly contemptuous of people who he didn’t think were up to his level
 intellectually. He showed that contempt for all of us: ‘You’re an
 ignoramus.’ 
He always wanted to know where he stood,
It
 was always important to be in the club.
Oh, So and So, he won the Putnam three times.
Okay, John, you go to the
 board,
See if you can get me out of trouble.
He was infinitely more sophisticated than the rest of us,
He
 understood the difficult points naturally. When Duffin got stuck, Nash could
 back him up. The rest of us didn’t understand the techniques you needed in
 this new medium.
He always had good examples and counterexamples,
I could talk to Nash,
After class one day he started talking about
 Brouwer’s fixed point theorem. He proved it indirectly using the principle of
 contradiction. That’s when you show that if something’s not there,
 something dreadful will happen. Don’t know if Nash had ever heard of
 Brouwer.
He tried to reduce things to something tangible. He tried to relate
 things to what he knew about. He tried to get a feel for things before he
 actually tried them. He tried to do little problems with some numbers in
 them. That’s how Ramanujan, who claimed he got his results from spirits,
 figured things out. Poincaré said he thought of a great theorem getting off a
 bus.
He was a much more dreamy person,
He’d think
 a long time. Sometimes you could see him thinking. Others would be sitting
 there with their nose in a book.
Nash knew a
 lot more than anybody else there. He was working on things we couldn’t
 understand. He had a tremendous body of knowledge. He knew number
 theory like mad.
Diophantine equations were his love,
None of us knew anything about them, but he was working on them
 then.
I had
 been offered fellowships to enter as a graduate student at either Harvard or
 Princeton. But the Princeton fellowship was somewhat more generous since
 I had not actually won the Putnam competition.
I thought he would be a
 completely pure mathematician,
Princeton was first in
 topology. That’s why I wanted to send him to Princeton.
We like to catch promising men when they are
 young and open-minded
like a sixteen
year-old,
He didn’t do it,
but he thought about it a lot.
better
the pleasantest country club in America.
a quaint,
ceremonious village
I always felt like my fly was open.
Fine Hall is, I believe, the most luxurious building
 ever devoted to mathematics,
loath to leave.
studies
a country club for math,
 where you could take a bath.
the mathematical center of the universe
It is difficult to learn anything about America in Princeton,
much more so than to
 learn about England in Cambridge. In Fine Hall English is spoken with so
 many different accents that the resultant mixture is termed Fine Hall
 English. . . . The air is full of mathematical ideas and formulae. You have
 only to stretch out your hand, close it quickly and you feel that you have
 caught mathematical air and that a few formulae are stuck to your palm. If
 one wants to see a famous mathematician one does not need to go to him; it
 is enough to sit quietly in Princeton, and sooner or later he must come to
 Fine Hall.
a poor place,
an overgrown prep school,
admired Yankee ingenuity but saw little use for pure
 mathematics,
There were only seven men there engaged in
 mathematical research,
In the beginning we had no
 quarters. Everyone worked at home.
irrelevant.
straight
axiomatization of all of mathematics so that it
 could be mechanized and solved in a routine manner.
The Hilbert program emerged at the turn of the century as a
 response to a perceived crisis in mathematics,
The effect was to drive mathematicians to ‘clean up’ Cantorian set
 theory, to establish it on a firm axiomatic basis, on the foundation of a
 limited number of postulates. . . . This marked an important shift in
 emphasis towards abstraction in mathematics.
intuitive content — in this case, our daily
 world of surfaces and straight lines — towards a situation in which
 mathematical terms were leached of their direct empirical content and
 simply defined axiomatically within the context of the theory. The era of
 formalism had arrived.
new physics
quantum mechanics,
stood
 outside this dramatically swift development.
the natural man inevitably rebels against mathematics, a mild form of
 torture that could only be learned by painful processes of drill.
Why not a few scientists?
Fine’s
 research men.
brilliant but unintelligible lecturers
 with foreign accents
the European, or demi-God, theory of
 instruction.
nations that do
 not cultivate the sciences cannot hold their own.
instead of sending Mahomet to the Mountain, it would fetch
 the Mountain here.
fundamental.
in a topological sense,
The pope of
 physics has moved and the United States will now become the center for the
 natural sciences.
a
 state of eclipse
Birkhoff is one of the world’s great academic anti
Semites.
vibrate and shake.
It
 was they rather than their American born colleagues who sensed the military
 implications of the new knowledge,
the kids
The notion was that the human mind could
 accomplish anything with mathematical ideas,
The postwar years had their threats — the
 Korean War, the Cold War, China going to the commies — but in fact, in
 terms of science, there was this tremendous optimism. The sense at
 Princeton wasn’t just that you were close to a great intellectual revolution,
 but that you were part of it.
an
 invisible man.
call
My years in the west with total hermetic isolation
 played in my development the role of ‘a job in a lighthouse’ which Einstein
 would have every young scientist assume so that he may develop his own
 ideas in his own way.
Don’t come to me with your pretty proofs. We don’t
 bother with that baby stuff around here.
algebraic topology,
hardly contains one completely correct proof. It was
 rumored that it had been written during one of Lefschetz’ sabbaticals . . .
 when his students did not have the opportunity to revise it.
Well a Riemann surface is a certain kind of Hausdorff
 space. You know what a Hausdorff space is, don’t you? It’s also compact, ok.
 I guess it is also a manifold. Surely you know what a manifold is. Now let me
 tell you one non-trivial theorem, the Riemann-Roch theorem.
It’s important to dress
 well. Get rid of that thing,
You look like
 a workman, not a mathematician,
Let a Princeton
 barber cut your hair,
goddamn deans.
generals
embalming parlor,
Remember,
we’re not here to baby
 you.
to
 satisfy the Philistines.
ridiculous sentimentalism.
the tragedy of Ramanujan was
 not that he died young, but that, during his five unfortunate years, his genius
 was misdirected, side-tracked, and to a certain extent distorted.
breakfast
politics, music, and girls.
We are
 all homosexuals here
electric with
 ideas and the sheer joy of the hunt. If a stray ten-year-old with bare feet, no
 tie, torn blue jeans, and an interesting theorem had walked into Fine Hall at
 tea times, someone would have listened.
You went there to discuss math. To do your
 own version of gossiping. To meet faculty. To meet friends. We discussed
 math problems. We shared our readings of recent math papers.
like a cross between a panda and an owl,
Everything was new to me. I was
 awkward socially, shy and isolated. Everything was wonderful. This was a
 whole new world. Here was a whole community in which I felt very much at
 home.
Competitiveness, it was sort of like breathing. We thrived
 on it. We were nasty. This guy, he’s dumb, we’d say. Therefore he no longer
 existed.
Der Herr Gott ist raffiniert aber Boshaft ist Er
 nicht,
the Lord is subtle but not malicious.
a very strong, very
 masculine body,
handsome as a god,
He had a way of saying ‘trivial’ to anything
 you might have regarded as nontrivial. That could be taken as a put-down.
ALGEBRA IS BURBLE,
Hackers
Nash was very interested that everyone would
 recognize how smart he was, not because he needed this admiration, but
 anybody who didn’t recognize it wasn’t on top of things. If anyone wasn’t
 aware, he would take a little trouble to make sure he found out.
He wanted to be noticed more than anything.
What is your religion?
Shinto.
He definitely had a set of beliefs about the
 aristocracy,
He was opposed to racial mixing. He said that
 miscegenation would result in the deterioration of the racial line. Nash
 implied that his own blood lines were pretty good.
studied mathematics fairly
 broadly
Both Nash and I were dyslexic
 to some degree,
I had great difficulty keeping my
 attention on reading that required great concentration. Then, I just thought
 of it as laziness. Nash, on the other hand, defended not reading, taking the
 attitude that learning too much secondhand would stifle creativity and
 originality. It was a dislike of passivity and giving up control.
very irregular wavy line.
InteresEted.
was quite systematic in asking shrewd questions and
 developing his own ideas from the answers. I’ve seen some of his results in
 the making.
from things learned only halfway,
 sometimes even wrongly, and trying to reconstruct them — even if he could
 not do so completely.
He was always buried in thought. He’d sit in
 the common room by himself. He could easily walk by you and not see you.
 He was always muttering to himself. Always whistling. Nash was always
 thinking. . . . If he was lying on a table, it was because he was thinking. Just
 thinking. You could see he was thinking.
It was as if he wanted to rediscover, for himself,
 three hundred years of mathematics.
More
 than any other student I have known, Nash believes in learning a subject by
 doing research in it.
such an overwhelming horde of ideas stormed
 my mind before I was twenty that I could hardly control them and had time
 but for a small fraction,
During his first year of graduate work, he presented me with a
 characterization of a simple closed curve in the plane. This was essentially
 the same as one given by Wilder in 1932. Some time later he devised a
 system of axioms for topology based on the primitive concept of
 connectedness. I was able to refer him to papers by Wallace. During his
second year, he showed me a definition of a new kind of homology group
 which proved to be the same as the Reidemeister group based on homotopy
 chains.
He was very much aware
 of unsolved problems,
He really cross-examined people on
 what were the important problems. It showed a tremendous amount of
 ambition.
accept that the universe was fragmented into
 relativity’ on one side and quantum mechanics on the other.
unified
 field theory.
gravity, friction, and radiation,
You had better
 study some more physics, young man.
Nash was determined to keep his intellectual independence. He didn’t
 want to be unduly influenced. He’d talk freely with other students, but he
 was always worried about getting too close to other professors for fear that
 he’d be overwhelmed. He didn’t want to become dominated. He disliked the
 whole idea of being intellectually beholden.
exciting but 90 percent wrong.
Some mathematicians work very much by
 themselves,
He liked to exchange ideas.
Would
 you be good enough to point out the flaw in this attempt. I’m sure there is
 one, but can’t find it.
You couldn’t engage him in a long conversation.
 He’d just walk off in the middle. Or he wouldn’t respond at all. I don’t
 remember Nash having a conversation that came to a nice soft landing. I
 also don’t remember him ever having a conversation about mathematics.
 Even the full professors would discuss problems they were working on with
 other people.
Well, maybe I ought to
 write a Note for the Proceedings of the National Academy on this.
Well, Nash, be sure to give me a credit.
All
 right, I’ll put in a footnote that So and So was in the room when I had the
 idea.
He wasn’t somebody you’d want as a close friend,
I don’t
 know many people who felt any warmth for him.
Nash was out of the
 ordinary,
If he was in a room
 with twenty people, and they were talking, if you asked an observer who
 struck you as odd, it would have been Nash. It wasn’t anything he
 consciously did. It was his bearing. His aloofness.
Nash was totally spooky. He wouldn’t look at you. He’d
 take a lot of time answering a question. If he thought the question was
 foolish, he wouldn’t answer at all. He had no affect. It was a mixture of pride
 and something else. He was so isolated but there really was underneath it all
 a warmth and appreciation [for other people].
A lot of us would
 discount a lot of what Nash said. A lot of the things he said were so far out,
you didn’t want to engage him. ‘What was happening on earth when the
 Martians took over and there was a period of violence and why such and
 such.’ You wouldn’t know what he was talking about. Nash came out with
 things. They were unfinished and we weren’t ready to hear them. I wouldn’t
 want to listen. You didn’t feel comfortable with the person.
First,
he wrote a letter to Hugh
 Taylor, a pompous ass who was looking for an excuse, demanding that the
 custom be restored. After it was, nobody ate in the hall. It didn’t make John
 popular.
very brilliant and
 original but rather eccentric,
his creative ability . . . should
 make one tolerate his queerness.
modern
Oh,
 by the way, what was it that they were playing?
Nash,
Nash.
Nash
John.
cannot readily and intelligently be pursued by anyone who is not
 a mathematician.
Oh, white really missed his opportunity when he didn’t take castle
 three moves ago.
He managed not just
 to overwhelm me but to destroy me by pretending to have made a mistake
 and letting me think I was catching him in an oversight,
This is regarded by the Japanese as a very invidious way of
 cheating — hamate— poker-type bluffing. That was a lesson both in how
 much better he was and how much better an actor.
Gale! I
 have an example of a game with perfect information,
There’s no luck, just pure strategy. I can prove that the first player always
 wins, but I have no idea what his strategy will be. If the first player loses at
 this game, it’s because he’s made a mistake, but nobody knows what the
 perfect strategy is.
Assume that two squares are adjacent if they are next
 to each other in a horizontal or vertical row, but also on the positive
 diagonal,
You could make it pretty, I thought.
So I made a board,
People played it using go stones. I left it
 in Fine Hall. It was the mathematical idea that counted. What I did was just
 design. I acted as his agent.
Nash
John
Nash
n by n
marvelously nonconstructive
You can walk from Mexico to Canada or
 swim from California to New York, but you can’t do both.
I even went to
 New York and showed it to several manufacturers. John and I had some
 agreement that I’d get a share if it sold. But they all said no, a thinking game
 would never sell. It was a marvelous game though. I then sent it off to Parker
 Brothers, but I never got a response.
We were all drawn by von Neumann,
frequent and
 famous and long,
What is the smallest power of 2 with the property
 that its decimal digit fourth from the right is 7?
The
 machine and Johnny started at the same time, and Johnny finished first.
Oh, you must have heard the
 trick before!
What trick,
all I did was sum the
 infinite series.
continuous geometry,
till then he was a top-flight
 pure mathematician who understood physics; after that he was an applied
 mathematician who remembered his pure work.
obscene.
thinking machines
many branches
 of both pure and applied mathematics are in great need of computing
 instruments to break the present stalemate created by the failure of the
 purely analytical approach to nonlinear problems.
exact
trivial,
just the latest fad,
déclassé,
Tucker’s clique.
Any event
 — given the external conditions and the participants in the situation
 (provided that the latter are acting of their own free will) — may be regarded
 as a game of strategy if one looks at the effect it has on the participants,
[this] is the principal problem of classical economics:
 how is the absolutely selfish ‘homo economicus’ going to act under given
 external circumstances.
with cool gray eyes and a
 sensuous mouth,
There is a spark missing,
It is too provincial.
remarkable for its pessimism as it is for any . . . theoretical
 innovation.
To some extent, his increasingly harsh views of economic
 theory were the product of mathematicians’ critical stance on the subject.
focused on the black hole in the middle of
 economic theory.
interested him in aspects of economic situations, specifically
 in problems of exchange of goods between two or more persons, in problems
 of monopoly, oligopoly and free competition. It was in a discussion of
 attempts to schematize mathematically such processes that the present shape
 of this theory began to take form.
something in the truly scientific spirit.
a
 blistering attack
Ten more such books and the future of economics is assured.
exaggerated
human element
Economic
 problems are not formulated clearly and are often stated in such vague terms
 as to make mathematical treatment a priori appear hopeless because it is
 quite uncertain what the problems really are.
the gradual development
 of a theory.
the
 proper instrument with which to develop a theory of economic behavior.
the typical problems of economic behavior
 become strictly identical with the mathematical notions of suitable games of
 strategy.
necessary limitations of the objectives,
results that are already fairly
 well known,
great claims, he
 himself lacked the mathematical wherewithal to substantiate them.
Moreover [Morgenstern] had the irksome habit of always invoking the
 authority of some physical scientist or another.
the bible,
This artifice helped but
 did not suffice for a completely adequate treatment of the non-zero-sum
 case. This is unfortunate because such games are the most likely to be found
 useful in practice.
game of strategy.
The Bargaining Problem
an altogether
 different angle
certain properties
 peculiarly favorable to mathematical calculation; namely a certain indefinite
 multiplicity and dividedness, analogous to that infinity and infinitesimality
 which facilitate so large a portion of Mathematical Physics . . . (consider the
 theory of Atoms, and all applications of the Differential Calculus).
Maud
The
 general answer is —(a) Contract without competition is indeterminate.
indeterminate.
two individuals who have
 the opportunity to collaborate for mutual benefit in more than one way.
solve
The author
 wishes to acknowledge the assistance of Professors von Neumann and
 Morgenstern who read the original form of the paper and gave helpful
 advice as to the presentation.
as a result of that exposure to economic ideas and problems I
 arrived at the idea that led to the paper The Bargaining Problem’ which was
 later published in Econometrica. And it was this idea which in turn, when I
 was a graduate student at Princeton, led to my interest in the game theory
 studies there.
good results related to game theory.
I put my hand upon her breast/She said, ‘Young man, I like
 that best’/(Chorus) Gosh, gore, blimey, how ashamed I was.
wasted
arguing the ear off Robert Oppenheimer
That’s trivial, you know. That’s just a fixed point theorem.
deviated somewhat from the ‘line’ (as if of
 ‘political party lines’) of von Neumann and Morgenstern’s book.
I was playing a
 non-cooperative game in relation to von Neumann rather than simply
 seeking to join his coalition. And of course, it was psychologically natural for
 him not to be entirely pleased by a rival theoretical approach.
I think I’ve found a way to generalize von Neumann’s
 min-max theorem,
The fundamental idea is that in a two
person zero-sum solution, the best strategy for both is . . . The whole theory
 is built on it. And it works with any number of people and doesn’t have to be
 a zero-sum game.
I’d call this an equilibrium
 point.
Hmm,
that’s quite a thesis.
He had a concept that generalized to disarmament,
The mathematics was so beautiful. It was so right
 mathematically.
I said this is a great result,
This should get priority.
He was spacey. He would
 never have thought of doing that,
so he gave me his
 proof and I drafted the NAS note.
I certainly knew right away that it was a thesis. I didn’t know it was a
 Nobel.
Whether or not this was of any interest to economists
 wasn’t known.
a machine,
There was no essential role played by
 me,
The thesis itself was completed and submitted
 after the persistent urging and counsel of Professor Tucker. John always
 wanted to add more material, and Tucker had the wisdom to say, ‘Get the
 results out early.’ 
I urged him to deal with a particular case
 rather than only a general case,
When you deal with the general case you have
 to deal with sophisticated notation that is very hard to read,
He reacted unfavorably, largely by expressing nothing. I didn’t hear from
 him again for a long time,
Nash had an answer for everything,
You couldn’t catch
 him out in a mathematical fault.
It is
 not necessary that I see the revised draft, for he has kept me informed
 (almost daily) of the progress of the revision.
I was
 delighted to notice a pleasant change of attitude in Nash during the course
 of our long correspondence on his work. He became much more
 cooperative and appreciative towards the end. I wrote to him like a Dutch
 uncle, but I suspect you or someone else at the Princeton end had some
 influence in effecting the change.
In
 contrast to the linear chain of reasoning for sequential games, a game with
 simultaneous moves involves a logical circle,
Although players act at the same time, in ignorance of other players’ current
 actions, each is forced to think about the fact that there are other players who
 in turn are similarly aware.38 Poker is an example of, ‘I think he thinks that I
 think that he thinks that I think . . .’ Each must figuratively put himself in
 the shoes of all and try to calculate the outcome. His own best action is an
 integral part of the calculation.
a powerful and elegant method of tackling a
 subject that had become increasingly baroque, much as Newtonian methods
 of celestial mechanics had displaced the primitive and increasingly ad hoc
 methods of the ancients.
Nobody
 would have foretold the great impact of the Nash equilibrium on economics
 and social science in general. It was even less expected that Nash’s
 equilibrium point concept would ever have any significance for biological
 theory.
talked good math, knew a lot.
Everybody knew that his game was strictly his own,
He went out of his way to find nonstandard moves. No one was
going to anticipate them.
Dear Lefschetz, The arrangements are satisfactory. Go
 ahead with the formalities. Shapley.
keen, beautiful,
 logical mind.
Nash was spiteful, a child with a social IQ of 12, but Lloyd
 did appreciate talent,
Nash
 was here!
Every once in a while he’d disappear from
 sight,
That’s what he said. We accepted
 anything.
A group of us was attending a regular seminar at the
 institute given by de Rham and Kodaira. We were always very anxious to go
 but only three or four of us had cars. Lloyd Shapley was one but there was
 one difficulty. Lloyd liked to sleep late and was often asleep at two o’clock in
 the afternoon. So we had to devise all sorts of ways to wake him. We dropped
 hot candle wax on him. I devised another method. We played 45-rpm
 records of Lloyd’s favorite Chinese music without the little insert so that it
 oscillated all over the place (and made excruciating noise).
Nash’s
 idea of a joke was to unscrew the electric light bulb in the bathroom. There
 was a glass shade under the bulb, which he filled full of water. We could
easily have gotten electrocuted. Did he intend to electrocute me? I’m not
 sure he didn’t intend to.
Oscar le Morgue would like for someone . . . to blast Baumol [William
 Baumol, then the rising young star of the Princeton economics department]
 for his impudence in publishing a paper attacking confusedly the only true
 utility. It’s beneath his dignity, but he doesn’t really think you’re the best
 man for the job because . . . ‘Shubik does not write very clearly.’ “25
 John McCarthy, one of the inventors of artificial intelligence, also
 befriended Shapley and apparently aroused Nash’s jealousy. One day
 McCarthy got an inquiry from a Philadelphia haberdashery about a massive
 shirt order he had placed.26 How good was his credit, the company wanted
 to know? McCarthy, who hadn’t placed any such order, immediately
 suspected Nash and asked Shapley if Nash was the culprit. Shapley
 confirmed that this was highly likely. McCarthy asked the company for the
 original order. Sure enough, a postcard came back with Nash’s unmistakable
 scrawl in green ink, the color Nash always used. Shubik and McCarthy
 cornered Nash and confronted him. “There was no denying what he had
 done. We threatened him with postal inspectors. The post office refused to
 merely bawl him out. ‘If we do anything, we’ll prosecute him,’ they said.
So Long, Sucker
But I didn’t need you anymore,
running
 starts,
the best young
 American mathematician working in the subject.
agreeable, cooperative and well-liked by faculty and
 students.
perhaps lacked the wherewithal to develop a
 theory and depended on others for ideas,
second only to the creator of the theory of games, John von Neumann.
I know Shapley very
 well and I think he is VERY good. I would put him above Bohnenblust and I
 would bracket him with Segal and Birkhoff.
The RAND Hymn,
the Air Force’s big-brain-buying venture,
Whole conceptions of
 modern warfare, the nature of international relations, the question of world
 order, the function of weaponry, had to be thought through again. Nobody
 knew the answers,
Military matters have
 become so complex and so involved that the ordinary experience and
 training of the generals and admirals were no longer sufficient to master the
 problems. . . . More often than not their attitude is, ‘here is a big problem.
 Can you help us?’ And this is not restricted to the making of new bombs,
 better fuel, a new guidance system or what have you. It often comprises
 tactical and strategic use of the things on hand and the things only
 planned.
If World War II was a
 war of weapons, another conflict would include on both sides a war of wits at
 the highest level of knowledge.
Hap
research and development,
research and nondevelopment
Preliminary Design of an
 Experimental World-Circling Spaceship,
the
 nation which first makes significant achievements in space travel will be
 acknowledged as the world leader in both military and scientific techniques.
 To visualize the impact on the world, one can imagine the consternation
 and admiration that would be felt here if the US were to discover suddenly
 that some other nation had already put up a successful satellite.
We had so many practical
 problems that involved mathematicians and we didn’t have the right tools,
So we
 had to invent or perfect the tools.
RAND capitalized on ideas
 that surfaced during the war.
experience.
thinking the
unthinkable.
That was it! It took about five days to write in September 1948,
When every attempt failed I thought of the impossibility theorem.
bright walls shining through fog-sunny days and its wide, white-lighted
 windows shining on uninterruptedly through the night. The building is
 never closed, nor is it ever really open.
Hello, Dr. Nash.
wanting to outrun the
 enemy,
We were all convinced that the mission
 was important though there was lots of room for intellectual vision.
optimization problem.
quarantine
preclearance
shop
to maximize chance meetings.
announced
Williams had a theory,
He believed people should be
 left alone. He was a great believer in basic research. He was a very relaxed
 administrator. That’s why people thought the math division was pretty
 weird.
The only part of your thinking we’d like to bid for systematically is that
 which you spend shaving: we’d like you to pass on to us any ideas that come
 to you while so engaged.
a young genius who could do anything, a guy who liked
 solving problems.
shorter, simpler
sidestepped the whole induction by regarding integers as variables and
 sending them to revealing limits.
When he found a problem,
he
 sat down and started attacking it immediately. He didn’t, like some of his
 colleagues, browse through the library to see what related stuff had already
 been done.
He knew which factors of a hundred
 thousand were the most important,
Then,
he’d solve the whole thing. He could see the structure.
It wasn’t so much that he sought advice,
You were a reflecting mirror. He was his own
 creative object.
He
 reinforced RAND’s idea that mathematicians were a bit crazy,
banana peels. Bank statements for Swiss bank accounts with
 thousands of dollars in them. One or two hundred dollars in cash. Classified
 documents. The C-1 isometric embedding paper.
trying to kick ’em.
preoccupation with the zero-sum two
 person game.
These are games in which,
 though the element of conflict provides the dramatic interest, mutual
 dependence is part of the logical structure and demands some kind of
 collaboration or mutual accommodation—tacit, if not explicit — even if
 only in the avoidance of mutual disaster.
Everybody was already bothered by the
 zero-sum game,
You’re trying to decide whether to go to
 war or not. You couldn’t say that the losses to the losers were gains to the
 winner. It was a troublesome thing.
Games
trust
silent guns,
to discuss the
 situation and agree on a rational joint plan of action, an agreement that is
 assumed to be enforceable.
one worldism.
You
 did have cooperative game theory. But I couldn’t force the other side to
 cooperate.
Nash suddenly provided a
 framework to ask the right questions.
a lot of people to calculate equilibrium points.
rational
wondered if real people playing the game — especially people who had
 never heard of Nash or equilibrium points — would be drawn mysteriously
 to the equilibrium strategy. Flood and Dresher doubted it. The
 mathematicians ran their experiment one hundred times.
split the difference.
We all worked on this problem,
but Nash managed to formulate a
 good model of the two-person bargain utilizing threat moves to start with.
reasonable
optimal
The
 Bargaining Problem
Two Person Cooperative Games
missile gap
legitimized a basic fear of
 the enemy and the unknown through mathematical calculation and rational
 analysis, providing the techniques and the general perspective through
 which the new and rather scary situation — the Soviet Union’s acquisition of
 long range nuclear weapons — could be discussed and acted upon.
We have the historical fact that many social scientists have
 become disillusioned with game theory. Initially there was a naive band
wagon feeling that game theory solved innumerable problems of sociology
 and economics, or that, at least it made their solution a practical matter of a
 few years’ work. This has not turned out to be the case.
Whenever we speak of deterrence, atomic
 blackmail, the balance of terror . . . we are evidently deep in game theory,
yet formal game theory has contributed
 little to the clarification of these ideas.
a rock-ribbed Republican (Truman =
 moron = Roosevelt),
John Nash has written me asking if ONR can help
 get him a draft deferment.
heavier guns may be later rolled out without the appearance
politics
politicking.
essential to the welfare and
 security of this nation.
This process is said to work well. Normally, it takes place after the
 man is put in 1-A, but there is no rule against its use in advance of that
 event.
this kind of question is coming up frequently
 these days,
we will then make a
 second try directly with the national selective service organization,
this will not be necessary.
Information Needed in a National Emergency,
chance for 2-A,
 application pending.
Are you
 engaged in any other research work or consultation of possible national
 interest?
consultant for RAND corporation.
3 years or more on the theory of games and related
 fields. Wrote paper in this field when at Carnegie Tech as undergraduate.
 Two years to get Ph.D. at Princeton. Dr. Rigby has already told NY to
 support.
this project is
 considered by the Logistics Branch of ONR, Washington as a very important
 contribution in the present national emergency. Dr. Nash is a key member
 of our staff in this project and is one of the very few individuals in the
 country who have been trained in this field.
a key
 research assistant
this contract is an essential part of the Navy
 Department’s research and development program and is in the interest of
 national safety.
save
We had a lot of reservists and a
 great many young people,
In 1948, the average age was 28.35
 years. The personnel office wasn’t well [equipped to handle the situation]. I
 wrote some form letters to the draft board for Nash,
you seem to be safe until June 30.
I would suggest that we defer any further action
 until next spring, at which time, we can again apply for a II-A classification
 and can consider an appeal if this should be rejected.
hold his own in pure mathematics,
his
 real strength.
Well, you all know what a manifold is.
a nice discovery relating to manifolds and real algebraic varieties.
He was the kind of mathematician for whom the geometric,
 visual insight was the strongest part of his talent. He would see a
 mathematical situation as a picture in his mind. Whatever a mathematician
 does has to be justified by a rigorous proof. But that’s not how the solution
 presents itself to him. Instead, it’s a bunch of intuitive threads that have to be
 woven together. And some of the early ones present themselves visually.
probably the
 most attractive mathematician in America at that moment,
one
 of the most versatile American born mathematicians.
sometimes daunting in his reckless
 energy.
bird bath
I didn’t know what he was going to do, really. But I
 didn’t think he was going to get anywhere.
He wasn’t defensive. He was
 absorbed in his work. He responded thoughtfully.
Unlike other students who felt underappreciated,
Nash never
 complained.
It was not a problem that
 somebody gave Nash. People didn’t give Nash problems. He was highly
 original. Nobody else could have thought of this problem.
nice discovery,
It had been assumed that smooth manifolds were much more general
 objects than varieties.
beautiful
striking
Just to
 conceive of the theorem was remarkable,
If you wanted to solve a problem in topology,
as Mike and I did,
you could climb one rung of the
 ladder and use techniques from algebraic geometry.
too strong
a piece of research which he has nearly
 completed, and with which I am well acquainted since he used me as a
 sounding board.
alarming brown,
classified
a pretty crude animal.
service departments,
There were advantages,
A lot of the MIT faculty
 didn’t have Ph.D.’s. I came without a formal degree. Solow came before he
 had a formal degree. We were treated magnificently. It was more of a
 meritocracy.
People would say, doesn’t everybody do that? Not
 up the river, we’d answer. How do you explain that? We’re Avis, we try
 harder.
It certainly
 was not a faculty club populated by cultivated Brahmins,
When I came [in 1940] it was 85
 percent engineering, 15 percent science.
out of the question for a Jew,
At
 Brooklyn Tech the greatest thing in the world was sending a student to
 MIT.
It was very much a growing environment
 and science was a growing sphere,
It was the upswing in
 money . . . that made this possible. That was part of the whole postwar
 pattern.
a few giants but a lot of mediocrities.
sparkplug of
 a chairman,
Bochner said Nash was worth
 appointing. ‘Don’t worry about anything!’ 
a brilliant and creative young
 man,
When
 Nash mentioned somebody [as a potential hire], you didn’t wonder if he was
 a crony or a relative. If Nash said he was top flight, you didn’t need much in
 the way of outside references.
the Ancient Mariner’s.
When we met, was I walking to the faculty
 club or away from it? For in the latter case I’ve already had my lunch.
The exodus from Harvard
 dealt a lasting psychic trauma to Norbert Wiener. It did not help that his
 father was a Harvard professor . . . or that Norbert’s mother regarded his
 move as a cruel comedown in life.
When he was high he’d run all over MIT
 telling people his latest theorem,
Fagi
You couldn’t stop him.
He was egotistical and childish, but also
very sensitive to the real needs of others,
turbulence via statistical mechanics,
 collision functions, etc.
I’ve found the smoothing
 effect in definite form now,
He was very uncouth, very provincial,
He was highly opinionated and too ignorant to know that he didn’t
 know everything. But he’d plunge in and make a good paper, despite the fact
 that he didn’t know the literature. Wiener ignored his rough edges.
Tell me, Mr. Bush, do you think you’re
 running an engineering school or a theological seminary?
If it
 isn’t, why not hire Levinson?
opinion
respectability,
virtue of
 the herd.
If you’re at MIT, forget about
 teaching. Just do research.
Let’s
see . . . I’d tell them i equals square root of minus one. But I’d also tell them
 that it could be minus the square root of minus one. Then so how would you
 decide which one. . . . 
He didn’t care whether the
 students learned or not, made outrageous demands, and talked about
 subjects that were either irrelevant or far too advanced.
flamboyant
mischievous.
a bit of a gamester.
He gave a one-hour test. He handed out blue books
 where you filled in your name and the course number on the cover. When
 the bell rang, you were supposed to turn over the exam sheet and start
 working on the test. There were four problems. Problem number one was
 ‘What is your name?’ The other three problems were fairly hard. Since I
 knew by then how his mind worked, I made sure to write next to number
 one, ‘My name is Joseph Kohn.’ People who assumed that writing their
 name on the cover was enough got twenty-five points taken off.
The students were supposed to show that
 pi is an irrational number. Later, when Nash was upbraided by the chairman
 of the department for putting the equivalent of Fermat’s Last Theorem on a
 final, he responded by saying that people have a mental picture that this is a
 difficult problem. Maybe that’s the stumbling block. Maybe, if people didn’t
 realize that the problem was ‘hard,’ they could solve it.
It was a sort of strange thing to do,
hacker
hack,
very, very available for chatting about
 mathematics,
It was
 amazing what he was willing to talk about. There was a sense of infinite time
 in every conversation.
It’s the kind of thing that one just accepts or
 perhaps goes off and looks up afterwards,
for hours and hours elegantly thought
 through the proof from first principles
boys.
He
 wanted to be the quickest,
He was a real competitor.
It was absurd,
He had no sense of the laws of probability in cards.
Math Table
Their attitudes
 were famously nonbourgeois, exhibitionistic, dissolute,
At that time we thought of
 eccentricity and being good in math as going together. We were all enjoying
 ourselves by being a little bit wild. We thought of ourselves as taking
 advantage of being bright by ignoring conventions we didn’t like. We turned
 ourselves a little bit into characters.
free thinker.
Let’s take this aspect.
humanoids.
That’s junk.
How are you?
humanoid
We shared a similarly cynical view of the world. We’d think of a
 mathematical reason for why something was the way it was. We thought of
 radical, mathematical solutions to social problems. At one point, Nash
suggested a complete transfusion for something. If there was a problem, we
 were good at finding a really ridiculously extreme solution.
self-destruct,
For Nash to deviate from
 convention is not as shocking as you might think. They were all prima
 donnas. If a mathematician was mediocre he had to toe the line and be
 conventional. If he was good, anything went.
When your solution
 turns out to be right, we give you your due. We give you a lot of leeway. Had
 Nash been less of a mathematician, he wouldn’t have gotten away with his
 nastiness.
People were annoyed with him
because he was flippant, but not really annoyed. They considered him a bad
 boy, but a great one, a great golden boy.
Harvard was too snooty.
AFL = CIO
Poldy
Who were we? What were we
 trying to do? Every group has its own currency. Our only currency is what we
 were thinking. Who’s smart? Who’s doing what? What can you solve? How
 far did you get? It doesn’t sound nice but it was exciting.
They loved to spark each other,
They admired
 each other’s sarcasm,
It was all good-natured. But D.J. could
make cracks much faster. He had instant recall when it came to
 mathematics. People used to say that D.J. could solve any problem that
 could be done in twenty-four hours. Newman didn’t have the power of
 Nash’s sustained concentration. Nash could think about a problem for half a
 year.
I sat in on some of Nash’s
 lectures,
It was
 different, kind of exciting. He wandered, unlike most lecturers, because he
 liked to explore a lot of things at once. It was kind of nice. . . . We chewed
 each other out,
Nash and I were friendly friends.
I’m Nash with a capital N!
You’re a child,
You don’t know crap. How trivial! How stupid! You’ll never do
 anything!
I’ve had a few drinks. Are my
 thinking powers stronger or weaker on drink?
Jeep
My solution’s much better.
I didn’t see it. I insisted that he prove it. He didn’t
 want to. He said it was obvious. I still wouldn’t accept his assertion. So he did
 the calculation. He turned out to be mostly right, but he was extremely
 annoyed with me. He was angry for my having forced him to do this grungy
 work when it was perfectly clear all along what the answer was. He was angry
 with me for some period afterward.
Don’t give
me all that crap! Tell me how you’d solve the problem. You haven’t learned
 anything. All these concepts don’t mean a thing.
Gnash.
G obviously stands for genius. In fact, there are
 few geniuses these days here at MIT. Me, of course, and also Norbert
 Wiener. Even Norbert may no longer be a genius, but there is evidence that
 he once was.
There are too
 many journals. There are too many trashy papers being published. There are
 too many guys doing research. Only a few of us should be in research. The
 rest of them should be in sin x
This is an adequate Chianti.
a non-Jew in a definitely Jewish
 atmosphere.
Jewboy,
Krypto
Zionist conspiracies.
too Jewish.
That covered a lot of territory.
built like a Greek god,
It was hard work getting back to shore,
I wonder if that was an
 accident,
I think I’ll go back in
 and see.
I was slim,
 attractive, intelligent,
never even noticed that I
 was there,
They just sort of stood around. They could have
 met the day before. They never referred to shared experiences. They didn’t
 seem to really know each other.
a little standoffish, not affectionate at all,
I don’t
 think I saw any affection from anybody on that trip.
The place hadn’t been cleaned — ever. There were
 dust balls and dirty dishes. After looking around — they obviously hadn’t
 prepared a meal — I decided to ask for eggs. John pushed the remnants of a
 previously fried egg aside in the frying pan. ‘Very nice people,’ I thought to
 myself.
Games Against Nature.
to
 play games.
n-person
regard a run of
 plays as a single play of a more complicated game.
split the difference.
failure
I was
 very naive and very homophobic,
It wasn’t the kind of thing
 people talked about then.
Concerning love, I know a conjugation: amo, amas, amat, amamus,
 amatis, amant. Perhaps amas is also the imperative, love! Perhaps one must
 be very masculine to use the imperative.
Howard Shipley, astrologer.
McCarthyism was a big threat to these schools,
During the war the
 government had started pouring money into them. The threat was that the
 research money would dry up. It was a bread-and-butter issue.
MIT was turned topsy-turvy,
The faculty
 debated and debated how to prove that MIT was patriotic. There was strong
 pressure to name names.
By that time, young people had prospects, jobs, optimism,
The younger people — Nash’s group — didn’t want to be too
 friendly. They were scared. They distanced themselves.
Ted and Izzy Amadur hemmed and hawed. Norman knew that Ted Martin
 and Izzy would cooperate. They spilled all the names. Norman said he’d talk
 freely about the party but that he wouldn’t name names. The lawyer told
 Norman, no you don’t have to say any names. He’d cooperate, but he
 wouldn’t give any names.
basically original,
Why I
 am an atheist.
I’m
 a simple man, I can’t understand this.
Ambrose
 came to class one day with one shoelace tied and the other untied. ‘Did you
 know your right shoelace is untied?’ we asked. ‘Oh, my God,’ he said, ‘I tied
 the left one and thought the other must be tied by considerations of
 symmetry.’ “4
 The older faculty in the department mostly ignored Nash’s putdowns and
 jibes. Ambrose did not. Soon a tit-for-tat rivalry was under way. Ambrose was
 famous, among other things, for detail. His blackboard notes were so dense
 that rather than attempt the impossible task of copying them, one of his
 assistants used to photograph them.5 Nash, who disliked laborious, step-by
step expositions, found much to mock. When Ambrose wrote what Nash
 considered an ugly argument on the blackboard during a seminar, Nash
 would mutter, “Hack, Hack,
Seminar on the REAL
 mathematics!
The seminar will meet
 weekly Thursdays at 2 P.M. in the Common Room.
Fuck Myself
To Do
Gnash
If
 you’re so good, why don’t you solve the embedding problem for manifolds?
I did this because of a
 bet.
Nash explained that he wanted to find out whether
 it was worth working on.
The discussion of manifolds was everywhere,
The precise question that Ambrose asked
 Nash in the common room one day was the following: Is it possible to
 embed any Riemannian manifold in a Euclidean space?
deep philosophical question
This problem, although classical, was
 not much talked about as an outstanding problem. It was not like, for
 example, the four-color conjecture.
It showed incredible
 originality,
one of the
 most important pieces of mathematical analysis in this century.
Nash didn’t like that style of
 mathematics at all. He was out to show that this, to his mind, exotic
 approach was completely unnecessary since any such manifold was simply a
 submanifold of a high dimensional Euclidean space.
very poetic, different kind of thinker.
heavy analysis,
curious
Well, that’s all well and good, but what about the embedding theorem?
You’ll never get it.
I’ll get it next week,
I didn’t say that,
I said I heard he
 was working on it.
Working on it?
Well, then there’s nothing to worry about. He doesn’t have the
 insights I have.
It took enormous courage to attack these problems,
no references but his own mind
supreme self-confidence.
the ability to continue punching the wall until the stone
 breaks.
to make a
 go of it and straighten everything out.
I am profoundly indebted to H. Federer, to
whom may be traced most of the improvement over the first chaotic
 formulation of this work.
Nobody believed his proof at first,
People
 were very skeptical. It looked like a [beguiling] idea. But when there’s no
 technique, you are skeptical. You dream about a vision. Usually you’re
 missing something. People did not challenge him publicly, but they talked
 privately.
talks went well.
One of the great experts on the subject told me
 that if one of his graduate students had proposed such an outlandish idea
 he’d throw him out of his office.
a great man with a
 small build, friendly, radiating a warm glow, who knew everything about
differential geometry,
So we thought, ‘NOW we’ll understand
 what Nash did.’ He was naturally skeptical. He would have been an
 important validator of Nash’s work. But as the lecture went on, my God,
 Hopf was befuddled himself. He couldn’t convey a complete picture. He was
 completely overwhelmed.
I did not
 learn so much from him. When he talked, he was vague, hand waving, ‘You
 have to control this. You have to watch out for that.’ You couldn’t follow
 him. But his written paper was complete and correct.
He talked big. Some of us
 were not sure he could live up to his claims.
To tell you the truth I don’t have enough background in this
 area to pass judgment.
very personal
Dear Mattuck, Thinking that you will understand this concept better than
 most I wish to explain . . .
the Other
I thought I was such a great mathematician,
special sorts of individuals
special
 friendships.
They seem very
 colorful and amusing,
Of course they are much younger like the
 sort of person I’ve mentioned. . . . I feel often as if I were similar to the girls
 that love the Beatles so wildly since they seem so attractive and amusing to
 me.
Nash was always
 forming intense friendships with men that had a romantic quality,
He was very adolescent, always with the boys.
experiments,
He played around with it because he liked to play around. He was very
 experimental, very try-outish,
Mostly he just
 kissed.
He used to talk about how Donald looked all
 the time,
He tried fiddling
around with me. I was driving my car when he came on to me.
special friendships,
special
T
very high strung, not a social person at all,
 very bright, knew a lot, very very academic.
Don’t leave your bags on the
 street while you come in; they might not be there when you come out
 again,
What does he think this is? A gymnasium?
in addition to the pursuit of mathematics and
 other intellectual pursuits, he would make friends and engage in social
 activities.
I didn’t chase him. He
 chased me. He kept pestering me,
I wound up going
 shopping with him.
John was very attractive,
When I saw
 him, I thought he was something special.
Get up quick!
dark and pretty, quite shy,
a good person
ordinary intelligence,
simple manners
a very
 peculiar way of speaking.
I wasn’t a bad
 girl. I didn’t run around with a lot of men. In fact, I was really good. I was a
 little afraid of men. I didn’t want to be involved with them sexually. I
 thought it was kind of disgusting.
to take the plunge.
masculinity.
There were always big bottles of stuff around the places I
 worked as a nurse,
he delved into drugs
would make him more manly.
in the end.
He was always putting me down,
He was always making me feel inferior.
beautiful.
he didn’t know how to live.
That can be
 overwhelming,
He didn’t want us to stay,
no
male visitors,
He wanted to be around him all
 the time,
I should have been home to take care of
 him,
I worried. [Nash] never worried.
He
never told anyone about us,
People told me never to see
 him again,
It’s better if you have a normal man. Not one who’s all
 puffed up by his own importance. One of my friends said that you didn’t see
 a thing in his face. It was like a dead person. I didn’t think so, though.
Did I love him? I wouldn’t have gone with
 someone I didn’t love. He was awkward. His awkwardness seemed
 standoffish. But . . . he could be very sweet. He was very attractive in a way.
 Love is foolish.
adoring.
Eleanor
 realized Nash was a total egoist, but she was dazzled by his brilliance. He
 thought he was a genius. She was sleeping with one of the smartest men in
 America. Did he love her? She didn’t know. She didn’t ask. In those days, it
 wasn’t Talk to me.’ If you slept with a man, you assumed he loved you.
This is the woman I plan to marry and our son.
Nash’s mind was made up.
He wanted to marry a real intellectual girl. He
 wanted to marry somebody in the same capacity as he was.
He wanted to have John adopted,
 ‘We’d always know where he was,’ he’d say.
wanted
 everything for nothing
Everybody wanted him,
Some people even offered
 me a lot of money to let them have him. It was frightening. There were these
 wealthy people who were taking care of John David. They were going to
 move to California. If they’d gone to California, I would never have seen
 him again.
She shouldn’t have had a baby, she shouldn’t have been so gullible,
a lovely thing,
There was no return address, or note or anything, but I
 knew it was from my father.
mesmerized,
hypnotized,
enamored,
was
 overwhelmed by Nash’s smartness,
Nash was the
 smartest person he’d ever met. He worshiped Nash’s intellect.
There’s no hope
It’s useless
the world’s greatest audience.
We became Lasker partners,
That’s how we got to
know each other.
They were importantly interested in each other,
Bricker hero-worshiped John,
He was always hanging
 around. They were always patting each other.
special
 friendships
there was something that happened between people that he didn’t
 experience.
the strong force that binds
 people together.
colorful,
amusing,
attractive,
lost, lost, lost completely in the wilderness . . .
 condemned to a hard hard hard life in many ways.
the great mathematician.
He was beautifully sweet one moment and very bitter
 the next,
I have a mistress.
mean streak
They weren’t embracing, but they were always
looking at each other. Nash was very hostile. He kept throwing angry looks at
 me. He couldn’t stand anyone talking to Bricker.
was a very disturbing thing
Bricker didn’t know what to do. He was having a terrible time.
He was very wild,
He sent me a
 lot of letters. They were pretty disturbing.
No to No
No.
Dear Mattuckine, It has obviously been Mr. B who has
 caused me the largest personal injury,
All along since 1967 I’ve been
 afraid to write to Bricker except in an indirect fashion. As yet this trouble
 persists however the reasons why change. There is a feeling of impropriety,
 etc.
How
 is Nash? Is he better?
I don’t want to discuss it further,
front office
police
 trap.
dirty detail like vice.
sexual perversion
reckless nature indicating poor judgment
it was conceivable that an
 ongoing [sic] homosexual might be granted a security clearance, but that he
 could not think of a single case where it had been granted
very open, very relaxed,
 but appalled that such a valuable researcher as Nash would be lost to
 RAND.
a nut, an eccentric,
One cop
 follows a guy into the head and makes a remark. If he’s accepted, a second
 cop comes in and arrests him,
We lost five or six people to police programs over a
 period of several years,
You’re too rich for our blood, John,
Nash didn’t take it all
 that hard,
He denied that he had been trying to pick up the cop
 and tended to scoff at the notion that he could be a homosexual. “I’m not a
 homosexual,
I like women.
He pulled a picture
 out of his wallet and showed us a picture of a woman and a little boy. ‘Here’s
 the woman I’m going to marry and our son.’ 
merely observing behavioral
 characteristics.
But John, the police picked you
 up. You were found doing such and so.
Nash was
 charged with ‘indecent exposure.’ That’s going into a public head and
 making a come-on to another man. That means taking out your penis and
 masturbating. That’s the come-on.
The very act of
 charging you makes it impossible for you to continue here,
He left in a week or
 two weeks. Not helter-skelter,
The hurricane was a fascinating
 experience.
We withdrew his clearances and notified the Air Force of the charges that
 had been made.
He
 told the officers he was just thinking and . . . they finally learned that what
 he had told them was true,
What can mathematicians do to hurt us?
He could get arrested for solicitation.
the worst thing a mathematician could
 do to RAND is to leave.
Each case is different, with a different mix of genetic and
 psychological factors. Certain events are definite stressors, but it’s not famine
 or war. It’s idiosyncratic. It’s things that get to the soul and self-identity and
 expectations of oneself.
It’s things that build up, things that
 lead to a lot of brooding,
little boys,
an El Salvadoran princess with a sense of noblesse oblige.
very sad, very stoical person.
wives of Catholic leaders,
keep up the social end of things.
You have to keep
 the times in mind. Women dissembled then. Alicia behaved like a fifties
 ditz, but that doesn’t mean she was one. She was flirtatious but she was
 saying quite serious things. She always had some agenda, some goal.
atomic
nuclear physicist
rocket scientist
The world was physics. It was what
 kids with a talent for, and interest in, math and science aspired to,
To Carlos Larde it was the top, and it
 was for Alicia too.
Very intelligent. Not too pushy. Very very interested in her
 studies.
I wanted a career, so I wanted to study something
 definite,
Queen Bee.
We were a self
selected group of fairly strong women,
We
 had our own culture. It wasn’t normal American female culture, the ‘you
 can’t be as good as the boys’ culture, which we were always trying to escape.
 And it wasn’t the MIT boys’ culture either.
You either had to buckle down or accept just getting by,
Alicia never really buckled down.
our
He was so wrapped up in himself that he wouldn’t pay
 attention to what we wanted. His attitude plainly said, ‘Shut up and take
 notes,’ 
He
 presented the material but that was it. He was sort of cold.
She
 thought he looked like Rock Hudson,
mathematics was the
 highest thing,
A genius
 with a penis. Isn’t that what we all want?
He was going to be famous. He was also cute.
Alicia
 thought he was gorgeous. She thought he had beautiful legs.
He was very, very good-looking,
Very intelligent. It was a little bit of a hero worship
 thing.
Come with me to the music library,
 Joyce,
Come with me to Walker Memorial. I want to see Nash.
She
 set her cap for him,
She had a campaign going.
Alicia is still not doing to [sic] well since she is in
 LOVE. She goes around with a faraway expression on her face.
Work here isn’t very stimulating; what I do mostly is count
 ‘tracks’ seen thru a microscope,
I
 only work 15 hrs a week here but what tires me out is the overtime; I keep
 seeing the little monsters every time I close my eyes. Music library proves
 more interesting, so far several strange boys have tried to pick me up.
A few more weeks now and I expect to be seeing ‘blondie’
 again. It seems peculiar but I feel so indifferent about him now.
gunning
charm
wear glasses.
one.
My activities besides the music
 library include the science library where I read science fiction (John likes
 it),
I was no Einstein.
John could give her a lot of things
 she didn’t have,
Lady of Spain
the music librarian
on and off.
He still thinks
 I’m too innocent but has now condescended to accept me as is and just let
 my ‘sweet innocent little self’ develop.
so far I’m up to page 10 in Hildebrand.
Let’s go Minskify,
Who are the great
 geniuses: Wiener, Levinson, and me. But I think maybe I’m the best.
very bright
quite sarcastic.
She was not
 deferential at all. She never stopped talking.
Leech,
He was not infatuated with her,
He was infatuated with himself.
We wanted
 intellectual thrills. When my boyfriend told me e to the pi times i equals
 negative 1, I was thrilled. I felt the absolute joy of the idea.
My perfect little world is ruined, my perfect little world is ruined.
She tried to get me drunk,
She
 wanted to see what I was like. We talked about John.
she was beginning to matter.
just vegetating.
to get a job in New York instead of staying on at
 the Institute [MIT] to attend graduate school.
in an unbelievable state of
 depression, due to a certain instructor at MIT.
a different sort.
young,
colorful,
amusing,
attractive
the girls
 who love the Beatles so wildly.
It’s
 easier to predict what mathematicians will be talking about fifty years from
 now than what they’ll be interested in next year.
 ‘Amasy, Amasy, Amasy!’ his mother would say. ‘Oh, mom, you
 know how much I love you,’ Amasa would coo back in a falsetto.
he was fairly open
 about his homosexuality at Princeton and everybody at the Graduate College
 knew,
discovered
Kind and gentle, much loved by his students,
He was a very fine man. I
 was a manic-depressive long before lithium came along. He was very helpful
 to me. Amasa encouraged me to find a psychiatrist in Seattle. I could talk to
 him.
adopted
It was one of his projects.
Amasa was
 pretty sharp. He would have seen through the veil,
Don’t come home,
Go right to Boston and
 make this right. Marry the girl.
thinking of going back to BeanTown.
He didn’t
 want to pay child support. I told him, This is terrible. This is your son. If
 nothing else, do it for your own future. If the university got wind of this it’ll
 ruin your career. You owe it to her.
the wild
 electric beauty of New York
misfortunes.
perfect little world.
normal
I wonder how easy it is to get a divorce in New Jersey,
he
 always wanted something for nothing.
understanding.
I’m tired of the studying and
 procrastinating routine. . . . All I know is I want to ‘LIVE.’ 
This
 hotel — the Amazon — was for women only,
and they were mostly girls my age with
 wealthy parents who wanted to be sure their daughters would be living
 where men couldn’t get at them and deceive them; and they were all going
 to posh secretarial schools like Katy Gibbs, where they had to wear hats and
 stockings and gloves to class, or . . . simply hanging around in New York
 waiting to get married to some career man or other.
They seemed
 very happy,
It was a great apartment. They
 were just showing off their new marriage. He looked very handsome. It
 seemed very romantic.
abstract
an intellectual hotel.
It was such a great place
 that you had to stay at least two years. It took one year just to learn how to
 work under such ideal conditions.
The Institute had become
 pure, very pure.
The Institute was known to be
 about the dullest place you could find.
the national capital of applied mathematical analysis,
assistants,
deep reservoir of talent,
He was just
 a delight. There was a wit and humor about him that was thoroughly
 unstandard. There was a wonderful playful quality, a lightness.
very
 charming,
an attractive fellow,
a lively conversationalist.
He wore a serious expression. Then he’d break
 out into a sudden smile. He was an enthusiast.
his own way of
 looking at things.
He’d be in the common
 room,
talking and talking of his views of the
 political situation. From the afternoon teas, I remember him as voicing very
 strong opinions on the Suez crisis, which was going on at that time.
When the British and their allies were trying to grab Suez,
 and Eisenhower had not made his position unmistakably clear (if he ever
 did), one day at lunch Nash started in on Suez. Of course, Nasser wasn’t
 black, but he was dark enough for Nash. ‘What you have to do with these
 people is to take a firm hand, and then once they realize you mean it . . .’ 
baffling analytically,
defy even
 qualitative insights by present methods.
The open problems in the area of non-linear partial differential
 equations are very relevant to applied mathematics and science as a whole,
 perhaps more so than the open problems in any other area of mathematics,
 and this field seems poised for rapid development. It seems clear however
 that fresh methods must be employed.
He’d often seemed to have
 an internal smile, as if he was thinking of a private joke, as if he was laughing
 at a private joke that he never [told anyone about].
In physics everybody knows the
 most important problems. They are well defined. Not so in mathematics.
 People are more introspective. For Nash, though, it had to be important in
 the opinion of others.
We would meet often. Nash would say, ‘I seem to need such and
 such an inequality. I think it’s true that . . .’ 
He was sort of groping. He gave that impression. I
 wasn’t very confident he was going to get through.
Nash had learned from
 Nirenberg the importance of extending the Holder estimates known for
 second-order elliptic equations with two variables and irregular coefficients
 to higher dimensions,
He came to see me
 several times, ‘What did I think of such and such an inequality?’ At first, his
 conjectures were obviously false. [They were] easy to disprove by known
 facts on constant coefficient operators. He was rather inexperienced in these
 matters. Nash did things from scratch without using standard techniques. He
 was always trying to extract problems . . . [from conversations with others].
 He had not the patience to [study them].
After a couple more
 times,
he’d come up with things that were not so
 obviously wrong.
It was a stroke of genius,
I’ve never seen that done.
I’ve always kept it in mind, thinking, maybe it will work in another
 circumstance.
You have
 to be a genius to do that.
He said he opted to go to MIT because of the tax advantage
I saw some oldtimers in Rome,
It was a
 scene. You’d talk mathematics for half an hour. Then you’d have lunch for
 three hours. Then a siesta. Then dinner. Nobody mentioned De Giorgi.
He was this bedraggled, skinny little starved
looking guy. But I found out he’d written this paper.
elliptic
 equations.
When Nash learned
 about De Giorgi he was quite shocked. Some people even thought he
 cracked up because of that.
It was like Stanley meeting
 Livingstone.
First, please let
 me apologize for my manner of speaking when we discussed quantum
 theory recently. This manner is unjustifiably aggressive.
most physicists (also some mathematicians who have studied
 Quantum Theory) . . . quite too dogmatic in their attitudes,
anyone with any sort of questioning attitude or a
 belief in ‘hidden parameters’ . . . as stupid or at best a quite ignorant person.
matrix mechanics,
I embarked on [a project] to revise quantum theory,
It was not a priori absurd for a non-physicist. Einstein
 had criticized the indeterminacy of the quantum mechanics of
 Heisenberg.
To me
 one of the best things about the Heisenberg paper is its restriction to the
 observable quantities,
I want to find a different and
 more satisfying under-picture of a non-observable reality.
possibly overreaching and psychologically
 destabilizing.
I remember Nash being very much a part
 of our life. He used to come to the house and talk with Jürgen. They would
 walk and talk together and spend time in the study. The intensity of it was
 unimaginable. There could be no interruptions. An interruption was an
 absolute sin, a violation most serious. It was met with real wrath. When
 Jürgen and Nash met, it was very intense. I always had to be quiet.
ambitious, strong-willed,
Alicia subordinated herself to
 John. She wasn’t there to compete with him. She was totally dedicated to his
 support.
Somehow, he was relating
 a little better,
John was
 awkward. Alicia made him behave.
a very nice time of my life.
It was,
as if he were a composer
 and could hear the music, but he didn’t know how to write it down or
 exactly how to orchestrate it.
It was like building the atom
 bomb,
This was the beginning of
 nonlinear theory. It was very difficult.
It was a kind of factory,
He wouldn’t tell us what he was
 after, his grand design. It was amusing to watch how he got all these great
 egos to cooperate.
He wasn’t interested in what I was doing,
He’d
 say, ‘You’re an analyst. You ought to be interested in this.’ 
We were like Yankees fans getting together and talking about
 great games and great players. It was very emotional. Nash knew exactly what
 he wanted to do. With his great intuition, he saw that certain things ought to
 be true. He’d come into my office and say, This inequality must be true.’ His
 arguments were plausible but he didn’t have proofs for the individual
lemmas — building blocks for the main proof.
You don’t accept arguments based on plausibility,
If
 you build an edifice based on one plausible proposition after another, the
 whole thing is liable to collapse after a few steps. But somehow he knew it
 wouldn’t. And it didn’t.
New Math.
to encourage young mathematicians
future work.
one of the most important tasks, one of the most
 taxing responsibilities.
People aren’t universalists. They’re horse
 trading.
There were lots of
 politics in that prize,
It was a question of Thom versus Nash,
Friedrichs fought very hard for Nash, but he didn’t succeed,
He was upset. As I look back, he should have insisted that
 a third prize be given.
might have hurt him.
Nash was
 somebody who didn’t learn the stuff. He didn’t care. He wasn’t afraid of
 moving in and working on his own. That doesn’t get looked at so positively
 by other people.
By 1962, a Fields for Nash would have been out of the question,
It would never have happened. I’m sure nobody even thought
 about him anymore.
It
 turned out that Nash had just wanted to get a letter of acceptance from Acta
 to be able to get fast publication in the American Journal of Mathematics.
very improper and most
 unusual.
a fear
People say that for better or worse you will probably do your best work by
 the time you are thirty,
I tend to think that you are at your
 peak around thirty. I’m not saying you won’t equal it. I would like to think
 that you could. But I don’t think you will ever do better. That’s my gut
 feeling.
the primary mathematical powers
 decline at about twenty-six,
a
 certain more prosaic shrewdness.
I wanted to beat other boys, and this
 seemed to be the way in which I could do so most decisively.
John was the most age-conscious
 person I’ve ever met,
He would tell me
 every week my age relative to his and everybody else’s.
Steenrod’s Reduced Powers
Oh, yes, Steenrod’s
 reduced powers!
What,
 thirty already, and still no prizes, no offer from Harvard, no tenure even?
 And you thought you were such a great mathematician? A genius? Ha, ha,
 ha!
descending to a professional level of
comparative mediocrity and routine publication,
an idea of an idea
Whoever proves or disproves it will cover himself with glory,
A decision one way or the other disposing of
 Riemann’s conjecture would probably be of greater interest to
 mathematicians than a proof or disproof of Fermat’s Last Theorem.
The
 Riemann Hypothesis is not just a problem. It is the problem. It is the most
 important problem in pure mathematics. It’s an indication of something
 extremely deep and fundamental that we cannot grasp.
I think about it every day when I wake up in the
 morning,
If you want to climb the
 Matterhorn you might first wish to go to Zermatt where those who have tried
 are buried.
That is certainly a wonderful book. I have mastered it.
Ueber die Anzahl der Primzahlen unter einer gegebenen Groesse
On the
 number of prime numbers under a given magnitude
one of the outstanding challenges, if not the
 outstanding challenge to pure mathematics.
Riemann’s zeta function
Expert opinion favors the truth of the hypothesis.
How dare you?
What’s a guy like you
 doing?
Well, did you get anywhere yet?
Almost got it. I’d tell you about it, but I’ve got to run.
to try to prove the hypothesis by
 logic, by internal consistency of the system. Some proofs are based on
 analogies, on rules of logic whereby something is proved [indirectly]. If one
 could show that the structure of two problems was in some sense identical,
 one could show that the logic of one proof had to apply to the other. It’s a
 proof by logic and it doesn’t relate to the real context. It’s not proving that
 one object is related to another object.
He told me this very sketchy thing. It was an idea of
 an idea about how he was going to prove this thing. He was going to find
 another number system in which it was true. I thought, ‘It’s wild, it doesn’t
 hang together.’ This struck me as simply unbelievable. This was as opposed
 to my earlier conversations with him about parabolic equations, which
 struck me as daring but probably right.
Nash was considering so-called pseudoprime sequences,
 i.e., increasing sequences p1, p2, p3, . . . of integers that have many of the
 same distribution properties as the sequence 2, 3, 5, 7, . . . of prime
 numbers. For each of these one can associate in a natural way a ‘zeta
 function’, which for the case of the true primes reduces to the Riemann zeta
 function. As I recall, Nash claimed to be able to show that for ‘almost all’ of
 these pseudoprime sequences the corresponding zeta function satisfied the
 Riemann Hypothesis.
Riemann’s Hypothesis is not the sort of problem that
 can be attacked by elementary methods. It had already given rise to an
 extensive and thorny literature.
For a person who is not a library hound, it’s a very dangerous area to
 go into. If you have a flash of an idea with a scenario and think you may get a
 result, in the first flash of illumination you think you have a revelation. But
 that’s very dangerous.
merciless superego,
He was a little . . .
 on the wild side. There was something exaggerated about his actions. There
 was a flamboyance in the way he talked. Mathematicians are usually more
 careful about what they will assert to be true.
It’s part of life that not all things one works on work out. You
 overestimate your own abilities. After solving a big problem, nothing smaller
 is good enough. It’s very dangerous.
Do they give you stamped, self-addressed envelopes
 too?
No. Do you know a bank that gives you stamped self-addressed
 envelopes?
to cut out his cheese-paring ways.
One extra theorem will earn you more than all that stuff.
It seemed he had a notion that there might be a secret to the
 market, not a conspiracy, but a theorem — something that if you could only
 figure it out, would let you beat the market. He would look at the financial
 pages and ask, ‘Why is this happening? Why is that happening?’ as if there
 had to be a reason for a stock to go up or down.
Nash liked to chat about the
 stock market. He had the idea you could get rich.
I was horrified,
That’s
 something else,
It’s vanity. It’s like claiming you can
 control the tides. It’s a feeling that you can outwit nature. It’s not uncommon
 among mathematicians. It’s not just about money. It’s me against the world.
 A lot of traders, start that way. It’s about proving yourself.
We were
 young,
It was fun.
Nash wouldn’t talk to
 women
this car has been Browderized.
lots of famous people around.
a
 ‘new addition’ that we are expecting.
reached a modus
 vivendi condition which is an improvement over early 1958.
I do not feel this is a
 good long-term position for me,
I would
 rather be one of a smaller number of more nearly equal colleagues.
he had no intention of staying at MIT. He
 wanted to go to Harvard because of the prestige.
This is part of the plan. The other part is to learn French.
Nash is eager to talk mathematics with others he thinks are
 up to snuff. . . . He is often rather rough on those less able . . . but this is
 standard practice in France . . . Nash should do well with energetic give and
 take . . . benefit from relationship with Leray.
one of
 the most talented and original mathematicians in the US . . . in his final year
of a Sloan fellowship. One of two or three best men who ever got a Sloan.
He was bragging that he had enough fellowships to survive three
 or four years.
I’ll forward my
 debt,
What drives Cohen is
 that he’s going to be better than any other guy. He’s going to solve the big
 problems. He looks down on mathematicians who do mathematics for the
 sake of making incremental improvements in the field.
wildly competitive,
He was
 good at tearing people down,
Well, Nash what kind of garbage are
 you working on now?
What wrong theorems did you
 prove today? Okay . . . you want a real problem? I’ll give you a problem!
They were
 always eager to show how much better they were at whatever game it was
 that other people were playing. They engaged in horseplay . . . playing tunes
 on beer bottles.
He could say an enormous amount in three words,
They wanted to solve it any way at all,
cultivated
unusual,
Maybe I liked him because he liked me. He’d ask me to
 lunch. He was not a friend of mine, though. I don’t know that he had any
 friends.
concerned
So and So was a homosexual,
Oh, you don’t know
 what so and so means.
Mathematically I didn’t interact with him.
 I didn’t feel I could talk to him about mathematics.
Nash thought he could work on any problem he wanted,
He wrote a letter to Ingham, and he
 passed it around. I shot it down. What he was trying to do, you couldn’t do. I
 would have been very unsympathetic to Nash’s notion. The Riemann
 Hypothesis can’t be solved as stated. He came by with this letter. But any
 expert would have said these ideas are naive. What I admired is the
 enormous self-confidence to even conjecture. If he’s right, this guy’s
 intuition is in the stratosphere. But it turned out to be just another wrong
 idea.
Nothing was worthy of his notice,
He sat in glorious isolation.
It’s time to play charades. It’s time to play
 charades.
really gruesome,
disturbing.
I’d think, ‘That’s going
 a little too far,’ 
I’d see him in the common room. He’d say
 something. It wasn’t a conversation. More like a monologue. He gave me
 preprints of his articles and asked me strange questions about them.
always mixed mathematics and myth.
The
 question occurs to me: Why are you here?,
He asked some questions I thought were in a sense, to my
 way of thinking, somewhat inappropriate to the subject. He seemed to see
 something quite different than what I had intended. . . . [His] questions were
 formulated as if I had some hidden, not fully disclosed, agenda that he
 wanted to discover. The lecture was about the rigidity of several locally
 symmetric spaces. He asked some questions that seemed to imply I had a
 hidden, secret motive. He suspected it had something to do with the
 Riemann Hypothesis, which of course it did not. I was rather taken aback.
 This was something that had nothing to do whatsoever [with the Riemann
 Hypothesis].
he kept shifting from station to station. We thought he was just being pesky.
 But he thought that they were broadcasting messages to him. The things he
 did were mad, but we didn’t really know it.
intergalactic driver’s license.
He seemed to be joking around.
I have this
 impression of him darting about. I’d walk into a stairwell and he’d disappear
 as if he’d been lurking there.
Are you crazy?
He expected me to
 understand. He genuinely thought I could understand. I thought he was
 pulling my leg, but it became obvious that he wasn’t. I thought he was doing
 some sort of experiment.
I got the
 impression that other people at MIT were wearing red neckties so I would
 notice them. As I became more and more delusional, not only persons at
MIT but people in Boston wearing red neckties [would seem significant to
 me].
Also [there was some relation to] a crypto-communist
 party,
People are talking about me. You’ve heard them. Tell
 me what they’re saying.
It had a nasty edge. I told him I
 didn’t know what he was talking about, that I hadn’t heard anything.
political.
He said he was giving
 this lecture on the Riemann Hypothesis,
But when he
 started talking it was gibberish. Probability is everything!!! I knew that was
 crazy. I mentioned it to Newman, who brushed it off.
This,
is the universe.
This is the government,
This is an elliptic equation.
This is heaven.
 And this is hell.
Tell me about it,
almost didn’t believe in these things.
Levinson
 said, ‘He’s very paranoid. If you go down to his office, he won’t want you
 between him and the door.’ Sure enough, when I went down to his office
 that Sunday night, Nash edged himself over between me and the door.
This is a very sick man.
Vasquez, did you know that
 I’m on the cover of Life magazine?
favorite prime
 number.
At one point, Nash made a
 wrong turn and Alicia began yelling hysterically. He was somewhat anxious.
He was acting much more nervous than usual. Very agitated.
 At the moment of leaving, he was misplacing notes, running back and forth
 between the car and the house. Alicia was trying to calm him down.
I knew in that area that problem was not going to yield to a flash of
 inspiration.
Here was a great young mathematician with
 a proven ability for tackling the most difficult problems about to announce
 what he felt was a likely solution to the deepest problem in all of
 mathematics,
I remember hearing that he was interested
 in prime numbers. Everybody’s reaction was that if Nash turns to number
 theory, number theorists better watch out. There was a buzz.
a very
 strange adventure.
It’s very hot in here.
Not for the pianist,
He
 was laughed out of the auditorium,
I felt terrible. I said
 something nice to him, but I was disturbed. He seemed very depressed.
heaping scorn on him
The preceding year there
 was no hint of trouble. That is when he finished the parabolic equations
 proof. [In fact] he completed the proof during a talk. I [had] asked him if he
 wanted to come and give another talk at Yale. It wasn’t coherent. I thought
 something was wrong.
Why don’t you tell me about it?
Tell me what you
 know,
something was wrong.
knew something was going on
bugged.
different
could
 undermine his professional credibility
You can’t act silly,
if you don’t tell me.
I
 didn’t want the bad things to get out.
Alicia wanted to save his career and preserve his intellect,
It was in her interest to keep Nash intact. She was
 extremely tough.
At first Alicia trusted
 them because it was MIT,
But it was a very Freudian
time. The psychiatry department was ultra-Freudian. They wanted to treat
 Alicia. She wanted practical help.
Lettvin’s idea was that when somebody was delusional the
 sooner he was shocked out of it the better,
She was very concerned with preserving his
 genius,
She wasn’t going to force anything on him.
 She also wanted there to be nothing that would interfere with his brain. No
 drugs. No shock treatments.
nervous
 breakdown,
didn’t seem very different,
his mathematics no
 longer made sense.
My talk in New York went reasonably well,
Since she has become
 pregnant Alicia does not like to go out. She enjoys TV and movie magazines.
 These things tend to bore me. The level is too low.
tornado.
She wanted the world to know that Nash was mad. She was worried about
 Nash. She worried that if she came to harm that he’d be treated like a
 common criminal, so she wanted to be sure that everyone knew that he was
 insane.
Dr. Schell doesn’t discuss his patients.
I was interviewed at Lincoln Labs about Alicia. I was asked whether she was
 afraid of her husband. But she wasn’t. He was just very sick.
she was afraid of him.
Something had happened in the middle of the night and she had to
 save herself and the child.
The word was ‘Tomorrow,
 Alicia is having John committed.’ Obviously, there was a lot of talk about
 it.
Waking in the Blue,
locked up.
Look at that dog over there. He’s following us.
The more powerful or exceptional the
 individual, the more controversial the decision.
they as if arrested me . . .
I actually struggled with them in resistance at first,
There were all these little two-story
 homes with suites — kitchen, living room, bedroom. They had suites for the
 cook, the maid, the chauffeur.
voluntary paper.
the prince of peace.
John wanted to know how he could get out of
 there,
He said he wanted a shower. ‘I stink,’ he said.
bear to see Johnny in this situation.
a mad month
rewriting everything in my
 three books,
Lycidas,
I had hit the
 skies, that all cohered.
Thrown together like a bundle of kindling, [unable] to escape,
weary, nasal, hesitant, whining,
 mumbling.
I don’t remember anything of the conversation except that it was general. In
 other words, only one person spoke at a time and that was most of the time
 Lowell. Basically he was holding forth on one topic after another, and the
 rest of us were appreciating this brilliant man. Nash said very little, like the
 rest of us.
apparently entered since
 perhaps 1860,
ex
paranoid boys
to a maze of tender
 fussy attentions suitable to old ladies.
Hearty New England breakfast[s]
with a door that shut,
hooded night light,
thoroughbred mental cases,
the routine.
Cock[s] of the walk
so much more intelligent and interesting than
the doctors,
dripping crumbs in front of the TV
 screen, idly pushing the buttons.
Bobbie/Porcellian ’29,
in his birthday suit.
Azure day/makes my
 agonized blue window bleaker.
[H]ours and hours go by.
considered beyond reasoning with . . . and treated like a child; not brutally,
 but efficiently, firmly, patronizingly.
What good is my sense of humor?
Everyone at MIT felt responsible for trying
 to make Nash better,
At McLean, all felt the more
 companionship and support he had, the quicker he would recover.
He was on the list,
And I was
 on it too. I was really shocked.
The Committee to Rule the World.
My wife, my own wife . . . ,
take away her
 power.
He was
 very resentful,
[but] otherwise not very different.
 Gertrude was initially very sympathetic and somewhat outraged at the way
 Nash was being treated. ‘He doesn’t seem crazy,’ she said.
He was saying such reasonable things,
What if they don’t let me out until
 I’m NORMAL?
There’s no discontinuity!
I was totally appalled by the fact
 that his wife had done this. I couldn’t believe my idol was under the thumb
 of some stupid nurse who had total power over him.
the deep underlying unreality.
These ideas keep coming into my head and I can’t
 prevent it.
He was very hostile. When I
 arrived, he said, ‘Have you come to spring me?’ He told me with a guilty
 smile on his face that he secretly felt that he was the left foot of God and that
 God was walking on the earth. He was obsessed with secret numbers. ‘Do
 you know the secret number?’ he asked. He wanted to know if I was one of
 the initiated.
If he was talking about
 cabals,
it would have been almost inevitable.
One always fudged it. One couldn’t be sure,
It was the height of the Freudian period — all
 these things were explained by fetus envy.
His
 psychoanalysts theorized that his illness was brought on by latent
 homosexuality.
homosexual panic.
heavily
 psychoanalytic
permanent cures.
The nurses were spending all their time classifying fur coats and
 writing thank you letters.
it was
 impossible to be social and crazy at the same time.
milieu
Stanton’s attitudes harked back to early days of ‘moral
 treatment’ of patients,
which included having expectations of
 them and having staff become close to patients. The idea was to involve
 patients in decision-making and to abolish some of the hierarchy of medical
 institutions.
Freudianism was pretty strong at McLean,
It was the dawn of psychopharmacology. We were desperately
 creating cures in all good faith.
Our knowledge of schizophrenia was negligible,
I was a dope. All he needed was a good shrink and support and everything
 would be over soon. Everyone at MIT pretended that Nash was going to
 recover in a flash. At McLean they would cure him with advanced therapy.
 Norbert was the only one who sensed the tragedy. He expressed his heartfelt
 sympathy. ‘It’s very difficult,’ he said to Virginia. She was tearful, shaken,
 trying to keep herself in check. She wanted to know as much as possible.
 Wiener’s eyes filled up with tears.
It’s all over for him,
disappeared,
I couldn’t say he’s psychotic,
He was straightforward and frank and of course is anxious to get
 out.
doubted
 Nash was committable
I still do not know what is the matter
 with him,
I certainly
 recommend his discharge.
One day Alicia just called me up and said she wanted to share an apartment
 with me,
She never talked about the baby, only about Nash,
She regarded the pregnancy as a problem. Just a danger to Nash. She was
 worried that it would interfere with her ability to take care of [him].
The observation period [with Nash at McLean] was
 coming to an end. The psychiatrists were telling Alicia that the crisis was
 precipitated by her pregnancy. She asked her doctor to induce her labor. He
 wouldn’t.
In
Boston Lying Hospital.
The implication was that it
 was Alicia who was lying. She observed what he was doing. I made no
 comment. I certainly didn’t want the situation to escalate into speech.
It was a wonderful place,
They had everything but one: freedom!
coming out party.
All the people who are important in my life are invited! YOU
 KNOW WHO YOU ARE!
Yes,
Why?
Mad Hatter’s Tea,
big party.
(nominal) mathematical associations
dramatically
Norman tried to convince
 him not to do it,
He felt responsible for him.
It was a very difficult period. By the time he resigned,
 he couldn’t meet his classes and people felt that he had no hope of any
 recovery. We were on the spot. I couldn’t even talk to him. There was no
 having a coherent conversation with him. Levinson always backed Nash to
 the hilt. There was no pressure on me either [from the administration to
 accept Nash’s resignation].
abstract the essence of a field. That
 is why we can move from one area to another.
Mont Blanc
restful
verdure everywhere . . . with the giant blue Paris
 pigeons bolting above it, two by two.
I was surprised, but not surprised,
A lot of mathematicians come to Paris. We talked about Edinburgh. I
 noticed nothing unusual.
special
silly
the first
 citizen of the world.
sick and tired of war and rumors of war,
Every paper headlined the story,
path of most resistance,
extreme contrariness
I desire to make a formal renunciation of my American
 nationality . . . and pursuant thereto I hereby absolutely and entirely
renounce my nationality in the United States and all rights and privileges
 pertaining, and abjure all allegiance and fidelity to the United States of
 America.
I wouldn’t have been able to leave Luxembourg and return
 to Paris because I no longer had a passport. They allowed me to retract my
 action as irrational and insane.
There is
 trouble.
on the way to becoming a world citizen.
Bibliotek,
part of the plan,
to
 take up painting.
the city of refugees.
without parents, home, wife,
 child, commitment or appetite . . . and the pride that might be taken in
 these,
all NATO, Warsaw, Middle
 East and SEATO pact countries.
the shadowy heart of the Castle
to lead an
 honored and comfortable life,
gain acceptance by the
 higher perhaps celestial powers and thereby to discover the reason of
 things.
farce of endless paper shuffling . . .
 a vast soulless mechanism for the circulation of papers . . . a world cluttered
 with paper, the white blood of bureaucracy . . . doomed by forces beyond his
 control (‘they’re playing with me’), yet also distracted through an inner
 confusion of desires.
events occurring in Europe before 1
 January 1951
owing to a well-founded fear of being persecuted for
 reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group
 or political opinion, [and only if one] is outside the country of his nationality
 and is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the
 protection of the country.
unusual
en renoncant à son
 passeporte américain, et cela pour la seule raison qu’il ne désire pas être
 appelé à faire service dans les forces armées des U.S.A., ni même prêter aux
 organisations officielles de son pays sons concours en qualité de
 mathematicien, craignant que sa collaboration puisse aider les autorités de
 son pays à maintenir la guerre froide ou préparer la guerre
Au surplus, la simple declaration de
 renonciation au passeport américain n’a en soi pas d’effet juridique.
I am the left foot of God on earth.
religious figure of great, but secret,
 importance.
mystical,
I shifted money from one bank to
 another,
I opened an account
 at a Swiss bank. It was Credit Andorra. The account was in Swiss francs. But
 I didn’t have very much money.
an invasion of aliens.
countersymptom.
sometimes an automaton
 moved by the agency of persons . . . at others, the Emperor of the whole
 world,
The identity principle
 or law of contradiction that states the impossibility of affirming both p and
 not p.
My life is not exciting
 at present. . . . Waiting for favorable developments. I’m somewhat
 disillusioned with a great many of my former associates, colleagues, friends,
 etc.
a nervous breakdown
 and spent two weeks in the hospital.
lost
requested refugee status. This produced difficulties.
because of certain legal formalities,
fun-loving.
Alicia is in Paris expecting
 ‘e,’ 
e,
Baby Epsilon
We’d go to my
 room and eat pastries, baba au rhum,
We’d gossip about
 the other students. We went skiing.
sense of helplessness in an ice
cold universe.
non-local thinking,
administration . . . heaped upon administration
The
 Metamorphosis,
K was not to relax his struggle, but was to
 die worn out by it.
Delusion provides a certain,
 often unbreakable identity, and its absolute character can maneuver the self
 into an unyielding position. In this respect, it is the internal mirror of
political authoritarianism, the tyrant inside the self . . . an internal
 domination as deadly as any external tyranny.
deportation was unavoidable
under surveillance,
undesirable alien
full
 knowledge of Dr. Edward Cox, assistant science advisor
RECEIVED WORD FROM GENEVA TO EFFECT NASH
 DESPITE ALL EFFORTS TO DISSUADE HIM DETERMINED TO
 SIGN OATH OF CITIZENSHIP RENUNCIATION.
at train time
 Nash [was] still reluctant [to] leave Geneva but no force [was] required.
interesting.
We kept a bucket of water nearby,
he seems a little attention spoiled now.
an interesting
 idea
Do
 you know what Kennedy and Khrushchev have in common? No. Both
 their names start with a K.
of Swiss resident or domicilee.
so as not to be
 inconsistent
only a refugee from the
 USA.
Personally I would strongly advise you to reconsider your views
 concerning NATO and other countries.
time of irrational thinking
places where you didn’t
 need an American passport.
Nash tried to defect to the
 Russians
thinking of returning to Roanoke
It started out plausibly
 about mathematics,
But it was stamped all over, with
 [Metro] tickets and tax stamps pasted on it. By the end of the letter it was
 obvious that it was completely fantastic. It was about Köchel’s numbers for
 Mozart symphonies. Köchel had catalogued all of Mozart’s works, more than
 five hundred. It was very graphic. It must have affected my father very much
 because he had kept it for all those years.
His letters were filled with numerology. I didn’t keep them. They
 weren’t just letters. They were collages, pastiches. Full of newspaper
 clippings. Very clever. I was always showing them to people. They contained
 some insights. Little patterns, puns.
The letters were about things like Milnor’s differential structure of spheres.
 Nash would quote a theorem. Then he’d derive a political meaning for it.
He was absolutely unreasonable,
I didn’t sell
 it. It was still there when he got back.
Picture of Dorian Gray.
autorisation de séjour
on a ship and in
 chains, like a slave,
I was
 worried that he would put some meaning in it,
Now I’ve got a real
 problem, work in NY or Wash?
She was very pretty, very quiet. I remember her
 pulling out a photograph of a cute little boy,
She was weightless,
a small
 charitable pressure
Nash could contribute strongly to his
 program if he was able to pull out of his present mental depression and
 utilizes his faculties to their greatest extent.
fearing that the appointment might be based on human kindness, rather
 than on realistic, technical needs.
Her advice is not to
 invite John to France at the present time since she feels it will only stir him
 up again. . . . If this job [with Oskar Morgenstern] materializes it will have a
 quieting effect on her husband. She feels that remaining in Princeton for a
 time might possibly bring him back to mathematical work.
talk to the
 squirrels.
liked to spectate, to watch
 people playing Kriegspiel, and to make cryptic little remarks.
What would we do with an overweight
 Hungarian?
What do Spain and the Sinai have in
 common?
They both start with S.
Well, give it to him and if there’s trouble I’ll
 handle it.
I wasn’t bothered by his
 strangeness and I wasn’t afraid of him physically. I was willing to have
 conversations with him. In some sense we enjoyed each other.
intentional, self-referential, and self-deprecating. He knew he was crazy and
 he made little jokes about it.
I did my part by
 talking to John on the telephone during those years.30 He used to call me a
 lot.
I got unending phone calls from Nash.
 Harish-Chandra also often got calls. It was unending. It was all nonsense.
 Numerology. Dates. World affairs. This was really painful. It was very
 often.
It was
 awful that such a strong and handsome man should be locked up. Alicia had
 some guilt trips. We talked it over, back and forth. The doctors advised her.
 She didn’t understand. It was very painful.
Johann von Nassau has been a bad boy,
They’re going to come and get me now.
Tower of Silence,
At first, we had thought that thirty days at McLean would straighten
 him out. By then we knew there were no short-term answers. We were
 concerned that John’s illness would eat into Mother’s capital and that she
 couldn’t afford a private hospital.
You really were not close to patients,
I
 remember very few patients specifically,
There was one
 patient who gouged out the eye of another. There was another patient who’d
 lost his eye when the police beat him up after he’d killed his father. But that
 was very exceptional.
There were good wards and bad wards. Trenton was not as plush as other
 places. As a matter of fact, Trenton was pretty crummy,
But I remember a lot of warmth, a lot of caring. We helped an
 awful lot of people.
Nash was my patient,
He didn’t like me
 because my name started with a ‘B.’ He had something against the letter B.
Do you hear voices?
case
We went down to
 talk to them, to beg them to put a red flag on the case and pay special
 attention to John. It was the only state hospital that John ever stayed in.
This is the legendary John Nash.
It is in the national interest that everything possible be done to bring
 Professor Nash back to his original productive self.
there would be a thorough study of Dr. Nash’s condition before
 any treatment was started at the state hospital.
The Insanity Bit
in a flip factory is determined by
 mathematics; you must find the common denominator of categorization and
 treatment in order to handle the battalions of miscellaneous humanity that
 are marched past your desk with high trumpets blowing in their minds.
I don’t remember whether the family had
 to give further permissions beyond the commitment,
In those days you could do just about anything without asking anybody.
That was a drastic decision. We
 were extra wary of anything that might affect his mental abilities. We
 discussed this with doctors.
the inside of the Lincoln Tunnel.
All the best of what the hospital had to offer was
 showered on them,
The insulin patients got a hell of a lot of TLC. In the
 family’s eyes, insulin had great appeal. Patients’ relatives were
 overwhelmed.
Jump in the lake.
 Jump in the lake,
We lost one young man,
We’d all become very alarmed. We’d call in experts and do all kinds of
 things. Sometimes patients would get very hot and we’d pack them in ice.
torture,
Insulin
 Institute.
People would
 put on a lot of weight because of the insulin,
The low
 blood sugar would make it necessary to give them a lot of sugar and the sugar
 had a lot of calories. For some of these spindly, skinny schizophrenics it
 wasn’t such a bad thing.
force-fed.
I didn’t get better until the money ran out and I went to a public
 hospital.
cure
This
 was the cream of the patient crop,
There were only
 about fifteen beds. Other wards had thirty patients per room. Patients got
 individual attention, went on trips, and were allowed to go home on visits.
The patients made fun of him because
 he was always so up in the clouds. ‘Professor,’ one of them said on one
 occasion, ‘let me show you how one uses a broom.’ 
We had to discharge people as fast as we
 could to get the census down.
That’s
 something no one on earth can tell you, doctor.
rational thought imposes a limit on a person’s concept of his relation to the
 cosmos.
interludes, as it were, of enforced rationality.
psychomathematics
People kept thinking I was regaining my brilliance, but what I
 was really doing was retreating to simpler and simpler levels of thought.
continue the study of partial differential
 equations
other research interests, some related to my
 earlier work,
a big occasion for me since
 I haven’t seen our little boy all during 1961!
Eleanor kept
 saying, ‘How cheap!’ 
He was afraid he
 would say something strange and humiliate himself.
Le
 Problème de Cauchy Pour Les Equations Differentielles d’une Fluide
Générale
quite a respectable piece of
 work
basic
 and noteworthy,
Cauchy problem for the general Navier-Stokes equations.
After Nash’s hospitalization he came out and seemed OK,
It was good for him to be at the IAS. Not everybody on the
 Princeton faculty was very friendly. It’s true that he didn’t speak. He wrote
 everything on blackboards. He was perfectly articulate in writing. He gave a
 lecture on Navier-Stokes equations — which concern hydrodynamics and
 partial differential equations — something I don’t know much about. He
 seemed fairly normal for a while.
Do you know a good psychiatrist in
 Princeton?
 ‘sat on a throne way above’
 him, and he wondered if I knew one who didn’t share that peculiarity.
the typically dreamy and out-to-lunch
 mathematician.
tourist French
a sense of French structure,
He was
 quite pro-French. He liked the language and the people.
There was only one person in the world who would be able to
understand it and that person was French. He wanted, therefore, to write the
 paper in French,
Did you detect the sexual overtones?
Paris was the center for this kind of mathematics.
If [Nash] asked to stay here for the autumn, I think that my colleagues
 would probably accede; but that is not his choice.
He wore
 baggy, rumpled clothes,
He
 didn’t seem at all aggressive. In some ways his manner was not that different
 from a lot of mathematicians’.
He was not
 quite right. He seemed to me very diminished. His mathematics was not at
 the same level. I found him odd, unpredictable, nonsensical. It was very
 painful. The secretaries were afraid of him. He was someone to avoid. You
 never knew what he would do or say.
We served tea and
 cookies,
Nash went into the kitchen. I followed him. ‘What do
 you want?’ I asked. ‘Well, I’d like some salt and pepper.’ 
After he put salt and pepper in his tea, he complained that the tea
 tasted awful.
He thought of me as a close
 friend. One had to put up with it. He would send me postcards in colored
 inks. It was very sad. They were scribbled with math and numerology, as if
 he were not expecting a reply. I was much on his mind. He had decayed in a
 very spectacular way,
He was groping.
I have this problem. I think I can
 straighten it out if I can figure out which members of the Math Society did
 this to me.
very grand.
The feeling he
 conveyed,
was that we had better get to work, or the world
 might come to an end at any moment.
1962
 was very different from earlier visits.
pidgin French.
Nash’s paper was
 respectable mathematically. It was a surprise to all of us [that he could have
 produced it at all]. For us it was like seeing somebody rise from the grave.
Where
 are you now?
Where are you?
chez Charles L. Legg.
Des Secrets.
Could you
 sign this carte d’identité . . . a man all alone in a strange world,
Maybe you will say that I’m
 mad . . . request to St. Paul’s in Princeton for sanctuary.
past misfortunes,
 especially in the fall season.
secrets can’t reveal
wood and
 nails of the true cross.
no plans
 for changing either his residence or his occupational status.
If we are successful
 probably most of it will have to come from mathematicians who have known
 Nash,
If anything can be done which will enable Nash to
 return to mathematics, even on a very limited scale, it would of course be
 very fine not only for him but also for mathematics.
it would seem to me that it would be altogether
appropriate for the AMS to receive contributions for the purposes set forth in
 [Martin’s] letter of March 25. . . . I would be inclined to go ahead.
Blowing Up
They didn’t want to be in a
 psychiatric facility close to home. It was a disgrace, a terrible stigma, nothing
 like today. The idea was to get as far away as possible.
talking cure
chemical straitjackets
McLean, Austin
 Riggs, Chestnut Lodge, Shepherd Pratt, and Institute for Living, these were
 all much fancier,
We
 were very clinical. None of us had any fancy training. None of us were stars.
 But the ironic thing is that if you were sick you were much better off at
 Carrier.
At Carrier we were proud of the fact that we set
 ourselves up as a short-term treatment center. That’s why we were so
 successful. We were able to treat the patients and get them out, in contrast to
 McLean and Chestnut Lodge, which were notorious for having
 schizophrenic patients there for four, five, and seven years.
Commitments always created terrible conflicts in the family. It
 was very hard to find somebody who wanted to take the responsibility.
We
 debated electroshock therapy,
But we didn’t want to mess
 with his memory.
What we were trying
 to do was to gain control of that patient — to break through his excitement,
 panic, depression — in the shortest possible time.
doesn’t exclude animal products, for example,
 milk, but only the animal products which become available only at the death
 (execution of the animal)
conventional,
cautious,
not an exciting
 man,
They weren’t just pill
 pushers or prescription writers. They were all humanistic.
typical
My problems seem to be essentially problems of communications. I don’t
 know how they can be resolved. Perhaps I shall be able to approach their
 solution as a result of begging for aid. (However, this isn’t a begging
 letter!)
Paranoid schizophrenics are not that responsive. Once you do get them
under control, you have to satisfy yourself that they’ve stabilized. You don’t
 want a relapse, especially if there’s been a commitment because then you
 and the family would have to start all over.
thinking of getting out.
Mele thinks it depends
 on having a job.
Michigan might have been a better deal.
a sad day
good prospects for a
 reconciliation
All members are voted by the whole school of people. I did the legwork. It
 was only to present the case to my colleagues.
This
 enterprise seems to me not too suitable for contract funds,
the
 doctors say there is no hope
he’s doing mathematics again.
feeling lonely.
Alicia is seeing a psychiatrist. She is very depressed. She was
 crying.
learning new things
had an idea which is
 referred to as Nash Blowing UP which I discussed with an eminent
 mathematician named Hironaka.
Nash was working on real algebraic varieties. Nobody else
 had been thinking about these problems.
some extremely interesting ideas
 [of Nash’s] in algebraic geometry.
[Mele] tried to keep him on
 medication. He also helped Nash initiate relationships with other people. In
 my experience, positive relationships plus medication does wonders.
 ‘Someone likes me’: that’s an experience that’s almost impossible for a
 schizophrenic to have.
I cannot guarantee his future mental health (any more than
 I could my own or that of anyone else), but I do feel strongly that a
 recurrence is unlikely in his case.
This is a special situation,
is now recovered. . . . He
 needs a chance to get back into teaching gradually and to re-establish his
 status.
I am strongly inclined to go along. It is a part of our
 job, I feel, in putting one of our most brilliant Ph.D.s back into top
 productivity.
mind [being] filled with the
 thought of performing imaginary computations of a meaningless sort.
avoided falling back into
 delusions
rather anxious,
He said,
 ‘I’m interested in getting the addresses of Jean Cocteau and André Gide. I
 have to write them letters.’ I gently informed him that both Gide and
 Cocteau were dead and that writing letters to them would be impossible.
 Nash was very, very disappointed.
I
 have some ideas but many of them don’t seem to work out.
troubled situation,
Si ma situation reste essentiellément la même comme c’est de
 maintenant
(Ici-compris ma situation de famille, etc., etc.)
Et si je peux travailler effectivement aux
 mathématiques par le temps de l’automne, je pense que je devrais accepter
 l’offre de Grothendieck plutôt que l’offre de l’Université, s’il pourra encore
 me donner cet offre d’emploi
with the understanding that you will
 remain at the Institute during the summer,
great but secret religious
 figure.
the Forum and the catacombs but avoided the
 Vatican.
like
 telepathic phone calls from private individuals.
mathematicians
 opposed to my ideas.
I observed the
 local Romans show a considerable interest in getting into telephone booths
 and talking on the telephone and one of their favorite words was pronto. So
 it’s like ping-pong, pinging back again the bell pinged to me.
The stream of
 words was obviously being fed into a central machine where they were
 translated into English. The machine inserted the words, now in English,
 into his brain.
suggested
 contacting Jean-Pierre Serre,
Situation
 looks dismal.
He tried to find mysterious patterns,
He claimed that he was born in a county named Mercer that had a town
 named Princeton. He seemed to find this a mysterious sign.
crazy letter for your entertainment,
Nash’s name was being mentioned a lot at the meeting. I thought
 it would be nice to produce him.
it was a
 barracks-like place, not much privacy.
That day Borel said why not have lunch
 with Jack Milnor and me. We had lunch,
traditional Sunday[s]
sad
you was
frustrating.
He was always humming,
He’d eat. He’d chill
 out. He’d leave. He never helped me with my homework or asked how I was
 doing. He was just very aloof.
behavior
 problem.
I had a woman taking care of him. She said John had been bad to
 her little boy. So she hit him and gave him a black eye. I didn’t work for a
 while. I was always on edge.
a miserable childhood, a shitty childhood.
There was a real stigma,
I had to lie.
his educational background will shape the whole
 future course of his life.
exam
I have less time for Eleanor,
among my few social contacts.
Eleanor was not nice to me,
sad.
I was
 very fond of her,
propriety.
forgetting his father.
Alicia doesn’t leave much hope/’22 In January, Nash was making
 awkward inquiries about dating.23 He thought of inviting the Mattucks to his
 house for a meal and “making it a foursome.
She’s a good
 conversationalist, but she isn’t pretty really,
merciless superego
old simple me.
special friendships
how things had been.
away from contact with a few special
 sorts of individuals I am lost, lost completely in the wilderness. . . . 
We had lots of
 research money. We had plenty of money to pay for research associates and
 part-time instructors. We did everything together,
Everybody was well aware that he was a first-class mathematician,
I have this
 problem,
Oh my God, how can you ask
 me this question? How stupid are you? How come you don’t know this?
When Nash first showed up at Brandeis
 he was pretty zombielike. At the beginning, he said nothing. That changed
 over the course of the year. He got more and more normal. He started
 interacting with people. We mostly talked about mathematics. He never
 talked about his personal life.
Analyticity of Solutions of Implicit Function Problems with Analytic
 Data,
the most
 prestigious American mathematical journal.
Nash had
 interesting ideas,
He was always making propositions
 about what one could do. But I always got the feeling that he either couldn’t
 or wouldn’t do them himself.
I’d rather be at a more famous place,
Of course, MIT isn’t the most
 distinguished . . . Harvard ranks much higher.
I hope to avoid stepping down in social status because it may be difficult to
 come up again.
sad because part
 of my new math idea fell apart.
canonical resolution of singularities.
more interesting
amazing
Everybody wanted to help Nash. His was a mind too good to
 waste.
I’ll need to learn
 how to behave properly and be polite etc.
hopeful
 and optimistic
I think I’ll develop some good friends and I’ll get remarried
 if not to Alicia and then I’ll have a happy family life.
collect appropriate materials and learn about the more
 recent developments
He sort of lost his balance completely. He went completely
 haywire.
He went right
 past normal and became hyper. At some point, he wouldn’t stop talking and
 he didn’t make any sense. By the summer, he wasn’t able to interact any
 more.
the Indian wheel of
 life. . . . If a person is always correct and right . . . there is good reason to
 hope.
optimistic but not well.
I have put my
delusions aside
he was about the same as last time.
are
 always dangers to worry about.
interesting
a large gift of money.
something great was about to happen.
I’m very disillusioned in the past . . . hoping also that my future
 relations with all the relatives and especially you and Martha will be much
 better.
I didn’t have much to be thankful for
 this Thanksgiving.
He
 was very peculiar,
He believed that there were magic
 numbers, dangerous numbers. He was saving the world.
Joe wanted to give up the apartment. He tried
 to reach Norman. He couldn’t, so he called me. So I called Nash every hour
on the hour. I was worried. I got this crazy idea to call up this minister he
 had been seeing. The minister told me Nash was out of town.
He blamed
 Martha for hospitalizing him,
It was very hard for
 her to take.
I started out so well,
I think of myself as a
 valuable person. But I’m not contributing.
I thought you were an atheist.
He’d get on the bus and go all around.
John called me at odd hours. He had no
 awareness of time. I told him to stop calling me after bedtime. Then I’d get
 calls with just breathing. I was rude. I wish I’d been nicer.
was acting really
 wild.
Why, when they were making you well, did you
 stop taking drugs?
If I take drugs I stop hearing the voices.
Chiang Hsin (New River).
Home to Roanoke to stay with my
 mother for a while.
for
 propriety
I felt so guilty that I said to myself, I’ll get his stuff moved out. I
 did, too, everything except the bathroom scale. I never even went into the
 bathroom.
There were folded bags, one upon another, and cereal boxes.
 Not awful, but signs of compulsion.
a cadaver,
 almost.
You should pity me . . . aging and drying
 processes have taken their toll.
Towers of
 Silence
Roanoke was not a good place to be.
 There were no intellectuals there. He’d be too much alone. He would
 wander around town whistling.
Apparently I am
 simply passing time visiting my mother,
but actually I’ve been
 under persecutions which I’m hoping will ease.
a decayed rotting
 house infested by rats and termites and other vermin
logical outgrowths of what
 the brain is experiencing
heroic efforts to maintain some sort of
 mental equilibrium.
dementia
 praecox,
This concept that I want to describe . . . will perhaps
 sound absurd,
consider,
as if,
may be thought of
 as,
the
 time of my irrationality,
perfecting
 the ideology of liberation from slavery,
a simple method,
a model
a theory.
negotiating
petitioning
g
indent
falling under the power of the Israeli state.
first-order
second-order,
an
 ideological conflict between me, personally and the Jews collectively.
an
 elaborate oscilloscope display . . . a repentingness function.
visible in the stars.
I’ve discovered a B theory of Saturn. . . . The B
theory is simply that Jack Bricker is Satan. ‘Iblisianism’ is a frightening
 problem connected to the Final day of Judgement.
the root of all evil, as far as
 my personal life is concerned (life history) are Jews, in particular Jack
 Bricker who is Hitler, a trinity of evil comprised of Mora, Iblis and
 Napoleon.
Jack Bricker in relation to me.
Imagine if there would be a
 person who pats a guy on the back . . . with compliments and praises, while
 at the same time stabbing him in the abdomen with a deadly rabbit
 punch.
so that they have the
 opportunity for redress of wrongs,
not be too openly
 revealed.
See, away from the fatness of the earth shall your home be/and away from
 the dew of heaven on high./By your sword you shall live,/and you shall serve
 your brother;/but when you break loose,/you shall break his yoke from your
 neck.
The days of
 mourning for my father are approaching; then I will kill my brother Jacob.
I’ve been in a situation of loss
 of favor
If accounts are held for a trustee, in effect, who is as good as
 defunct, through lack of ‘rational consistency.’ . . . It’s as if accounts are held
 for persons suffering in an Inferno. They can never benefit from them
 because it’s as if they were supposed to come from the Inferno — to the bank
 offices — and collect, but they need, as it were, a revolutionary ending of the
 Inferno before having any sort of possibility of benefiting from their
 accounts.
the really dubious things that I have done in all the history of my
 personal life,
draft dodging, truancy.
sufficiently
 complete in absentia.
it is as if the accused is his own
 chief accuser . . . the road of self-accusation is a road that leads to death not
 redemption.
court of inquiry
the life
 histories and . . . interactions
U see, U must
 sympathize more with the true needs of liberation, liberation from slavery,
 liberation from ‘castration,’ liberation from prison, liberation from
 isolation . . . I’m a refugee, in fact, from false symbols and dangerous
 symbols.
to be free, and to be safe and for friends.
in fear of ‘death’ (Indian style) through an
 Armageddon with Iblis . . . at the Day of Judgement.
I’m hoping fervently to be saved
 (delivered) before reaching 40 in age,
One cannot substitute free life and love of the 40s for the lost
 possibilities of the 20s and 30s and also teens.
It does seem to me that
 I’ve been as if the victim of an excessively long wait for liberation. . . . It’s as
 if there wasn’t a ransom forthcoming, as if from Kuwait, which would have
 really substantially shortened the time of waiting for me.
I see, it seems surprisingly clearly, how
 there’s as it were, a time of grace before that time, a precious time of grace
 which is forever lost if not seized carpe diem and fully effective in its
 significance.
My head is as if a bloated windbag, with Voices which dispute within.
I’m Nash with a capital N.
So long a
 time has passed. I feel there are many sad tragedies. Today I feel very sad and
 depressed.
yous
Ah yes. He is not what he was.
It is the mechanism of how all the persons
 involved would collaborate in hospitalizing me which endangers me and
 which I fear.
falsely
conscious
reasonably conscientious
good memory retention.
a private sorrow.
It was
 so frustrating day by day. You wondered, is this ever going to get any better?
Only one
 time did I ask for help,
The minister stopped me after
 church and told me I should be helping my mother more. He didn’t ask
 whether I needed help. Later on I called and asked would he come to call.
 He didn’t come. The retired minister came but he wasn’t the one I wanted.
The landlord accused John of setting it,
When Mother died, it was not a good time. We weren’t close. He
 felt threatened. He felt that I would put him in a hospital.
Once Mother was gone, I couldn’t
 clean with him in my home. I was here with the children and he’s
wandering around drinking tea and whistling. He’d take ideas and twist them
 into something strange.
a very peculiar, thin, silent man walking the
 halls, night and day,
with sunken eyes and a sad, immobile face.
Mao
 Tse-Tung’s Bar Mitzvah was 13 years, 13 months and 13 days after
 Brezhnev’s circumcision,
I agree with Harvard: There is a
 brain flat.
Nobody knew where they came
 from,
Nobody knew what
 they meant.
flipped
going to wind up like the Phantom.
He was a better
 mathematician than you’ll ever be!
sweating, trembling, and practically
 crying.
intrigued and impressed
in the presence of a great mind.
We all found the
 remarkable connections, level of detail, and breadth of knowledge . . .
 exceptional, which is why I . . . collected a few dozen of the best of these.
Occupational Therapy
people look to the order of numbers
 when the world falls apart.
mystical, cultic religious efflorescence
He was quite agitated when he thought that
 the numbers were portents of something serious,
I’d say hello and he’d initiate a conversation. I remember
 one in which he was very concerned about the similarity of the telephone
 number of the United States Senate and the telephone number of the
 Kremlin. He was doing the arithmetic correctly but the reasoning for it was
 crazy.
It was a little odd. . . . He wanted to talk about something that
 had been in the paper. A crisis in Russia that he wanted to talk about with
 somebody.
lost years
It seemed to serve as a
 containing place for his madness.
Being freer to express himself, without fearing that someone
 would shut him up or fill him up with medication, must have helped pull
 him out of his disastrous retreat into hermetic linguistic isolation.
It seems
 that Nash’s schizophrenia diminished in the way it appeared to others and
 that his madness became confined to intellectual and delusional projections
 rather than to wrapping him completely in behavioral expressions.
I thought I was a Messianic godlike figure with secret ideas. I
 became a person of delusionally influenced thinking but of relatively
 moderate behavior and thus tended to avoid hospitalization and the direct
 attention of psychiatrists.
right,
secret
Nash had an obsessive
 concern with Nelson Rockefeller. He would take the letters, assign numbers
 to each letter, get a very large number, and then analyze that number for
 hidden meaning. It had the same relationship to mathematics as astrology to
 astronomy.
It
 would have taken deep abstraction of the sort that real mathematicians
 perform.
It was the old days. We fed cards into the computer.
 There was a large ‘ready room’ with a big counter, a card reader, table, and
 chairs and another room with a calculator. There was always lots of paper
 around.
Why not give him his own account?
He never, never made any trouble. If anything, he was
embarrassingly diffident. Sometimes if one was having a conversation with
 Nash, it was hard to break away.
the library crazy man
the mad
 genius of Firestone.
had a yellow camel
 [i.e., crazy].
many sleepless nights
Everyone knew he was a great man and just having lunch was
 an interesting experience. It was sad also. Here was this presence, this very
famous person in our midst that people outside of Princeton often thought
 was dead.
I felt sentiment and nostalgia,
Here’s a chance to do something for Nash.
My sentiment, such as it was, was based on picturing him growing
 up. Here’s this kid growing up and his dad isn’t there. This might do
 something to increase his self-esteem. His father isn’t there, but he’s great,
 his work is being recognized.
We gathered in Al Tucker’s office. Al and Harold Kuhn
 were there, so we chatted a while. Nash was sitting in the corner. Let me tell
 you, seeing this man who was a genius and now functioning at
 subadolescent level really was tragic. There’s a difference between knowing
 and seeing.
Much
 of his past hospitalization I now feel was a mistake and had no beneficial
 permanent effects, rather the opposite. If he is to make a lasting adjustment,
 I think this has to be done under normal conditions.
I feel that I now understand his difficulties
 much better than I ever did in the past, having experienced some of his type
of problems personally.
rigid and prim,
There were lots
 of people in P-town who didn’t come and see him. He was remarkably
 thankful for visitors.
There were times when I was
 going to interviews every day all day,
But I never got any
 offers. It was very depressing.
too much.
held everything
 together,
boarder,
He was not a troublemaker,
let it all out,
Sometimes you don’t plan things. They just turn
 out that way.
Did the
 way he was treated help him get better? Oh, I think so. He had his room and
 board, his basic needs taken care of, and not too much pressure. That’s what
 you need: being taken care of and not too much pressure.
John talked to Johnny a lot about
 mathematics when he was growing up,
If his
 father hadn’t been a mathematician, Johnny would have been a doctor or a
 lawyer.
gentle, a nice kid, a tiny bit awkward, like other
 mathematicians . . . until they find their context.
very high-powered math books.
He disappeared one day. When he came back
 he’d shaved his head and had become a born-again Christian.
Do you know who I am?
Do you want to be saved?
You sacrifice so much,
 you put so much into it, and then it all goes,
Gaby is the closest female
friend Alicia has around here. Gaby is very good. Nobody else was around
 consistently.
At first, you
 cannot tell anything about her. You do not realize who she is. She has put a
 sort of shield around herself. But she is a very brave and faithful woman.
He’s my father,
My God, you do look just like him,
he didn’t want to let John go. So John took him back to school
 with him.
It just sort of petered out,
When I
 asked him for advice, he’d answer with something about Nixon,
an essential and significant personal role
 in my personal long-awaited ‘gay liberation.’ “44 He had waited a long time,
 as he said at the time, to “tell him about my life and problems and life
 history.
I haven’t always wanted to have contact with him,
Having a mentally ill father was rather disturbing.
I don’t need to
 take calculus,
I’m
 going to major in math.
By the way, what’s your name?
John Nash,
You may have heard of my father. He solved the
embedding theorem.
It was obvious that
 he was a real mathematician,
Why do I have to do anything? My father doesn’t
 have to do anything. My mother supports him. Why can’t she support me?
I gave one the first week,
Johnny came back with the solution the following week. I gave another one
 that week and a week later he had that solution too. It was extraordinary.
beautiful
The
 way he views things is very different from other people,
He comes up with instant insights I don’t know I’d ever get to. Very, very
 outstanding insights. Very unusual insights.
also true the next few
 hundred thousand times.
a gradual tapering off in the 1970s and 1980s.
My impression was of a very gradual sort
 of improvement. In the early stages he was making up numbers out of names
 and being worried by what he found. Gradually, that went away. Then it was
 more mathematical numerology. Playing with formulas and factoring. It
 wasn’t coherent math research, but it had lost its bizarre quality. Later it was
 real research.
I felt bold enough at the time to want to meet this
 legend.
We’d be walking along Nassau Street and we’d be talking about the
 market,
stock picker
The calculation of an infinite product was involved,
I
 was unable to do it, so I showed it to Nash. He suggested I use Stirling’s
 formula to compute the product and then he wrote down a few lines of
equations to indicate how this should be done.
He seemed so much better. He described his work
 in the theory of prime numbers. I’m not competent to judge it, but it seemed
 like real mathematics, like real research. That was very gratifying.
acted frightened and silent
Nash’s computer programs were startlingly elegant.
Nash was quite sharp then,
He
 was free of this distraction. He’d learned how to use the computer. He was
 working on the Big Bang. I was very pleased.
within the normal
 range for the ‘mathematical personality’ 
recover’ 
do not a schizophrenic make,
does not necessarily mean that
 [individuals] are well, since they still may be suffering from a defect state
 that is stabilized and with which they have now learned to cope.
John has definitely recovered,
remission.
fully recovered.
recovery.
I emerged from irrational thinking,
ultimately, without medicine other than the natural hormonal
 changes of aging.
rationalize
A key step was a resolution not to concern myself in politics relative to
 my secret world because it was ineffectual,
This in turn led me to renounce anything relative to
 religious issues, or teaching or intending to teach.
 “I began to study mathematical problems and to learn the computer as it
 existed at the time. I was helped (by mathematicians who got me computer
 time).
historic mistake
determine whether previous
 nominating committees had overlooked people
People felt in some vague sense this was relevant.
I doubt [Nash] would be elected, since he is well known to
 have been crazy for years,
frivolous.
the current status of Nash’s health.
mad
Regarding Nash, I inquired and
 learned that he is still crazy. Fellowship is an activity more than a reward for
 past work. The fellows are the ultimate governing body of the Econometric
 Society.
People
 were asked to give a rank ordering. Nash didn’t make it. Ariel had a fit. He
 insisted Nash be put on the ballot anyway.
It was the wrong decision,
the
 overwhelming majority of the votes.
Lindbeck didn’t signal or anything like that,
but I saw right away that everything had turned out all right.
John Forbes Nash, Jr., of Princeton, New
 Jersey . . .“3
 •   •   •
 The behind-the-scenes saga of John Nash’s Nobel Prize is almost as
 extraordinary as the fact that the mathematician became a Laureate at all.
 For years after the idea of a prize for game theory was first considered, even
 Nash’s most ardent admirers considered the likelihood of his winning
 impossibly remote.4 But much later, when the prize was virtually his, after
 he had been told that he had won it, and within an hour of the official
 notification, the ne plus ultra of honors very nearly eluded him — with far
reaching consequences for the future of the economics prize itself.
 This previously untold story is one that the Royal Swedish Academy of
 Sciences and the Nobel Foundation — intent on preserving the Olympian
 aura that surrounds the prizes — have tried very hard to keep under wraps.
 The academy is one of the most secretive of societies, and all details — the
 nominations, inquiries, deliberations, and votes — of the lengthy selection
 process are among the most closely guarded secrets in the world. The very
 statutes of the prize demand it:
 Proposals received for the award of a prize, and investigations and
 opinions concerning the award of a prize may not be divulged. Should
 divergent opinions have been expressed in connection with the decision
 of the prize-winning body concerning the award of the prize, these may
 not be included in the record or otherwise divulged. A prize-winning
 body may, however, after due consideration in each individual case,
 permit access to material which formed the basis for evaluation and
decision concerning a prize, for purposes of historical research. Such
 permission may not be granted until at least 50 years have elapsed after
 the date on which the decision in question was taken.5
 There have been breaches, of course. In the 1960s and 1970s, advance
 rumors of the literature Laureates used to trickle out of the Academy of Arts
 and Letters with notorious regularity.6 In 1994, a member of the Norewegian
 Nobel Committee quit over the impending peace prize to the Palestinian
 leader Yasir Arafat, and took his protest to the media. Michael Sohlman, the
 executive director of the Nobel Foundation, still sounds furious when he
 recounts the incident.7
 But, few, if any, cracks have appeared, figuratively or otherwise, in the
 gray Beaux Arts walls of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, guardian of
 the physics, chemistry, and economics prizes. If not for the mysterious one
and-a-half-hour delay on the day that the Nash prize was announced, the
 academy might well have succeeded in protecting the secrecy of the process.
 As it was, academy officials not only refused to explain the delay but denied
 that it was in any way significant. Indeed, they very quickly began to assert
 that it had never happened. Recently, Karl-Göran Mäler, a member of the
 economics prize committee in 1994 and privy to all of the events that
 transpired, said, “I do not recall any delay.
The Central Bank of Sweden Prize in
 Economic Science in Memory of Alfred Nobel.
the
 ultimate symbol of excellence for scientists and laymen alike
life peers in the world community of
 scholars.
Articles Under Preparation,
Articles Submitted,
Articles Accepted.
He’s kind of a mafia leader, a fixer,
Assar never controlled with commands.
So far the proposals of
 the prize committee to the Academy have been unanimous. A consensus has
 in fact developed quite ‘automatically’ within the committee, as if by some
 kind of invisible hand, after intensive discussions.
You could put it that way,
You can say it’s unanimous. . . . But he’s a dominating person. We don’t
 vote officially. You agree.
Very few people have ever dared say no to Assar.
investigations
obvious
My impression . . . [was] that it was the first time that the
 committee had met to consider this.
competent enough to handle the publicity that
 winning [a Nobel] might entail.
Can I go in?
I’m not
 faculty.
as if he had already won.
to educate itself,
no later than mid
August please.
sent my mind reeling in the Swedish direction.
every possible
 configuration
The prize committee meets for a
whole year. It’s technically impossible for the higher body to make the
 decision.
the most important so far,
cooperative theory has a few interesting applications in
 economics, but perhaps more in political science.
It seemed self-evident afterward. But it
 took a long time to come to this conclusion. And to convince others.
Once we decided to limit the prize to noncooperative theory then it
 was very easy to decide who were the . . . [key contributors]. Then it was
 obvious that Nash is [part of the] Nobel.
little dwarf
technicians.
I knew he had been ill,
I didn’t think many people knew
 about it. I guess I heard Hörmander’s version.
a ghost.
absurd, risky.
I knew this type of illness,
I know some psychiatrists here. Some of the best head shrinkers.
 When I talked to them I found out that with this disease there is a complete
 change of personality. He is not the man who did the thing.
It’s a very tragic illness. It gets calmed
 down but actually recovering is another matter.
He’d throw out an argument and somebody
 would shoot it down,
Then he’d
 shift to another argument. He tried to irritate and confuse us . . . to raise
 doubts.
He’s sick. . . . You can’t have a person like that.
Would he come? Could
 he handle it? It’s a big show.
The most damning thing,
you can only understand the Nash
 equilibrium if you have met Nash. It’s a game and it’s played alone.
These guys worked with the
 atom bomb during the cold war. It would be a shameful thing for the
 prize.
a few bad choices would sink the prize. Nash was of course a very weak
 prize. People were afraid that the thing would blow up. A big scandal.
The whole intellectual world is watching to
 see what the Swedish Academy of Sciences is going to do about Nash. The
 Swedes are known to be worried about what Nash might say.
[Stahl] was afraid of schizophrenia. So he had some prejudices. So he
 thought other people would think the same way. He was afraid of some
 scandal that would reflect on the committee.
misery of his life
Nash was different. He had gotten
 no recognition and was living in real misery. We helped lift him into
 daylight. We resurrected him in a way. It was emotionally satisfying.
Hayek was so hated, so
 despised. . . . He’d been in a very deep depression, he told me. It was terribly
 satisfying to indicate his greatness.
it’s ninety-nine percent certain now
The votes were unanimous,
Many people question the Nobel Prize [in economics] here,
mistake
the so-called Nobel
 Prize in economics.
The economics prize was just a way of jumping on the
 Nobel bandwagon, piggybacking on the Nobel.
It’s not as solid and big an enterprise as chemistry and physics.
a very small thing.
All the mighty firs have fallen. Now there are
 only bushes left.
realize that it’s a fact of
 life.
suggested
the Nobel Prize in social sciences,
the sole right to decide,
Even a unanimous committee
 recommendation may be overruled.
Members attend less for the vote itself than for
 a chance to hear the presentations.
as if by an Invisible Hand,
Troy could only have been destroyed by someone
 inside the walls. And that’s what happened here.
boring,
mere technicians.
rational expectations
It was a unique event. It had
 never happened before,
It’s not good for
 the academy to have close votes,
to study the future of the
 economics prize.
used by the physicists.
elegant.
the
 greatest moment,
He was unusually calm,
That was my thought. ‘He is
 taking this very calmly.’ 
the greatest auction
 ever.
a demonstration that
 people thinking hard about a problem can make the world work better . . . a
 triumph of pure thought.
the
 swamp of n-person game theory
terrain
 for systematic thinking that was previously closed.
Concepts, terminology and models from game theory have come to
 dominate many areas of economics,
At last we are seeing the realization of the
 true potential of the revolution launched by von Neumann and
Morgenstern.
Nash is the point of departure.
the mere design of some auction wasn’t enough. . . . [G]etting the
 auction design right was also critically important
To permit the efficient license assignment, an auction must allow
 bidders to consider various packages of licenses, combining complements
 and switching among substitutes during the course of the auction. Designing
 an auction to allow this is quite difficult,
Game
 theory played a central role in the analysis of the rules. Ideas of Nash
 equilibrium, rationalizability, backward induction, and incomplete
 information, though rarely named explicitly, were the real basis of daily
 decisions about the details of the auction process.
a triumph for game theory.
He didn’t look you in the eye. He mumbled. Socially he was
 very tentative, very uncertain. But his mood went up from day to day. He got
 less and less unhappy.
What did you talk about?
Look, Jörgen. It’s so beautiful.
the possibility that the universe isn’t expanding
Dinky
like a
 person who wants to do the research he might have done in his 30s and 40s
 at the delayed time of his 60s and 70s!
The Phantom was not in until very late, after 6:00 P.M. because even a
 Phantom can have ordinary human problems and need to go to a doctor.
persons who AFTER a time of
 mental illness achieve a high level of mental functioning (and not just a
 high level of social respectability.)
a symbol of
 hope.
To recover rationality after being irrational, to recover a normal life, is
 a great thing!
But maybe it is not such a great thing. Suppose you
 have an artist. He’s rational. But suppose he cannot paint. He can function
 normally. Is it really a cure? Is it really a salvation? . . . I feel I am not a good
 example of a person who recovered unless I can do some good work’ adding
 in a wistful, barely audible whisper, “although I am rather old.
Psychologically I have a problem since I
 have been, unfortunately, a long time without any publications,
I did not want to publish a collected works simply because
 I wanted to think of myself as, and assume the posture of, a mathematician,
 still actively engaged in research and not just resting on his laurels (as they
 say). And of course I knew that if a collected works was not published at this
 time, then it could be published later when, hopefully, I would have nice
 new things to add to it.
I am again engaged in scientific study. I am avoiding routine
 problems and instead I am dabbling.’ 
I got results that
 indicated I had made a fundamental error a long time ago and that I must
reformulate . . . [the] theory.
there was stuff being lost in a
 singular integration and when I considered distributed matter instead of a
 point particle, I found the lost stuff which had been erroneously ignored
this is good since I have avoided
 publishing a version based on errors.
He just wants
 to get on with his life.
Of course I’ve been a bad example,
He goes to the
 hospital, he gets better, but when he gets home he doesn’t like to take his
medication.
on the road
My time of delusional
 thinking is, presumably, in the past, but my son’s time of it is right now.
Ultimately computers could be a good sort of
 occupational therapy (as perhaps I was benefited in an OT [occupational
 therapy] fashion by [Hale] Trotter’s help in letting me get familiar with
 computer use.)19
 Johnny is thirty-eight years old. He is tall and handsome like his father,
 and he and his father share an interest in mathematics and chess. But
 Johnny’s illness has dragged on for more than half his life, a quarter of a
 century. He has been treated with the newest generation of drugs, including
 Clozaril, Risperadol, and, most recently, Zyprexa. These drugs, which have
 enabled him, for the most part, to stay out of the hospital, have not given
 him a life. Time hardly passes for him. He no longer competes in chess
 tournaments — once his greatest joy. He no longer reads, saying that he has
 not been able to for a long time. He is often angry and occasionally violent.20
 Life with Johnny is a tremendous strain on Nash and Alicia. Nash calls it
 being “perturbed,
tyrannized,
drift
 and danger of degradation.
We’re at our wits’ end,
You work so hard . . . and then he’s out of it. The Nobel
 hasn’t helped Johnny at all.
I don’t think of my son . . . as entirely a sufferer. In
 part, he is simply choosing to escape from ‘the world.’ 
less than mediocre.
Dad, if you keep doing that, you’ll win,
But when I play against the computer, I’m allowed to take back moves,
But, Dad,
I’m not a computer! I’m a human being!
meds,
Aren’t his legs beautiful?
I know I have my social faults and I make Alicia very angry when
 she is saying something that I can anticipate before she’s finished and then I
 start saying something as if what she’s saying is not of an importance.
economics sage . . . notwithstanding the Nobel.
Yes,
my son is in a mental
 hospital in Arkansas but he got a job offer!
You have to be fair to
 Johnny,
classical
one correct
 result, one incorrect, but the correct one was a breakthrough of sorts,
boarder
rationality,
first family,
less
 intelligent older brother.
Berlin was a great experience . . . my son
 enjoyed the trip.
a very fine person,
