Soon. He’ll be here soon.
Husband!
We’ve got ourselves a situation,
Well,
tell me about it.
About time you got off to school, isn’t it Edward?
I guess it is,
Morning, Edward,
Morning,
There’s nothing I can do,
I’m sorry. I’m so sorry. If you have any peace to make with
 Edward, anything to say at all, I suggest you say it now.
X-ray
 therapy.
Mom,
I’ll go in first,
And then if it seems like—
Edward Bloom,
Who would have thought it?
In Nagoya,
I saw a two-headed woman. I swear
 to you. A beautiful two-headed Japanese woman who performed the tea
 ceremony with such grace and such beauty. You really couldn’t tell which
 head was prettier.
There’s no such thing as a two-headed woman,
Really?
This from Mr. Teenage
Been-Around-the-World-Seen-Everything, thank you very much. I stand
 corrected.
Really?
Two heads?
And every inch a lady,
A geisha, in fact. Most of her life spent
 hidden away learning the complex tradition of geisha society, and rarely seen
 in public—which, of course, explains your skepticism. I was fortunate
 enough to be allowed access to the inner sanctum through a series of business
 friends and government contacts. I had to pretend that nothing was the least
 bit strange about her, of course; had I so much as raised an eyebrow, it would
 have been an insult of historical proportions. I simply took my tea as the rest
 of them did, uttering a low-pitched ‘Domo,’ which is Japanese for thank
 you.
YOU KNOW WHAT WOULD be nice right now?
A glass of water. Do you mind?
Not at all,
I don’t know if I told you this,
But there was
 this panhandler who stopped me every morning when I came out of this
 coffee shop near the office. Every day I gave him a quarter. Every day. I
 mean, it became so routine the panhandler didn’t even bother asking anymore
 —I just slipped him a quarter. Then I got sick and was out for a couple of
 weeks and I went back there and you know what he says to me?
What, Dad?
‘You owe me three-fifty,’ he says.
That’s funny,
Well, laughter is the best medicine,
I guess it’s kind of appropriate,
Me using the guest room.
How’s that?
I don’t want her to go to bed every night
 after I’m gone looking over at my side and shivering, if you know what I
 mean.
Appropriate inasmuch as I’m a kind of guest,
I haven’t really been around
 here so much, you know. At home. Not as much as we all would have liked.
 Look at you, you’re a grown man and I—I completely missed it.
I wasn’t there for you, was I,
 son?
No,
Hey,
Don’t hold back or
 anything, just ’cause I’m, you know.
Don’t worry.
The truth and nothing but the truth.
So help me—
God. Fred. Whoever.
But you know, my father was gone a lot, too,
So I know what it’s like. My dad was a farmer. I told you
 that, didn’t I? I remember once he had to go off somewhere to get a special
 kind of seed to plant in the fields. Hopped a freight. Said he’d be back that
 night. One thing and another happened and he couldn’t get off. Rode it all the
 way out to California. Gone most of the spring. Planting time came and went.
 But when he came back he had the most marvelous seeds.
Let me guess,
He planted them and a huge vine grew up into the
 clouds, and at the top of the clouds was a castle, where a giant lived.
How did you know?
And a two-headed woman who served him tea, no doubt.
You remember,
Sure.
Remembering a man’s stories makes him immortal, did you know that?
It does. You never really believed that one though, did you?
Does it matter?
No,
Yes. I don’t know. At least you remembered. The
 point is, I think—the point is I tried to get home more. I did. Things
 happened, though. Natural disasters. The earth split once I think, the sky
 opened several times. Sometimes I barely made it out alive.
I’d say I’d missed you,
if I knew what I was missing.
I’ll tell you what the problem was,
I wanted to be a great man,
Really?
Really,
Can you believe it? I thought it was my destiny. A big
 fish in a big pond—that’s what I wanted. That’s what I wanted from day one.
 I started small. For a long time I worked for other people. Then I started my
 own business. I got these molds and I made candles in the basement. That
 business failed. I sold baby’s breath to floral shops. That failed. Finally,
 though, I got into import/export and everything took off. I had dinner with a
 prime minister once, William. A prime minister! Can you imagine, this boy
 from Ashland having dinner in the same room with a—. There’s not a
 continent I haven’t set foot on. Not one. There are seven of them, right? I’m
 starting to forget which ones I . . . never mind. Now all that seems so
 unimportant, you know? I mean, I don’t even know what a great man is
 anymore—the, uh, prerequisites. Do you, William?
Do I what?
Know,
Know what makes a man great.
I don’t
know
I think,
that if a
 man could be said to be loved by his son, then I think that man could be
 considered great.
Ah,
those parameters,
Never thought about it in those terms,
 exactly. Now that we are, though, thinking about it like that, I mean, in this
 case,
in this very specific case, mine—
Yeah,
You are hereby and forever after my father, Edward
 Bloom, a Very Great Man. So help you Fred.
About that two-headed lady,
I’ve heard about the two-headed lady,
I don’t want to hear about her anymore, Dad. Okay?
I wasn’t going to tell you about the two-headed lady, Mr. Smarty-pants,
You weren’t?
I was going to tell you about her sister.
She had a sister?
Hey,
Would I
 kid you about something like that?
You saved my life.
You’re brave,
No ma’am,
I just saw you, and I saw that snake, and I—I jumped.
What’s your name?
Edward,
Okay, Edward. From now on this is your place. We’ll call it . . .
 Edward’s Grove. The tree, this part of the river, this water, everything. And
 whenever you’re not feeling good or need something to happen, you come
 down here and just rest, and think about it.
Okay,
Now you turn around,
and I’ll get dressed.
Okay.
Now!
Mother, now!
Karl!
Show yourself! I know you’re in there. I have come with a message from
 our town.
What is it you want, little person?
You must stop coming into Ashland for your food,
Our
 farmers are losing their crops, and the children miss their dogs.
What? And you intend to stop me?
Why, I could snap
 you in my hands like a branch off a tree!
Why,
I could eat you and be done with you in a moment! I
 could!
And that is why I have come,
What do you mean, that’s why you’ve come?
For you to eat me,
I am the first sacrifice.
The first . . . sacrifice?
To you, O great Karl! We submit to your power. In order to save the
 many, we realize we must sacrifice a few. That makes me—what?—lunch?
I . . . 
I don’t want to eat you.
You don’t?
No,
I don’t want to eat anybody,
I just get so hungry,
My mother used to
 cook the most wonderful meals, but then she left, and I didn’t know what to
 do. The dogs—I’m sorry about the dogs. I’m sorry about everything.
I understand,
I don’t know what to do now,
Look at me—I’m huge! I have
 to eat to live. But I’m all on my own now, and I don’t know how to—
Cook,
Grow food. Tend animals.
Exactly,
I suppose I should just wander into the back of this
 cave and never come out. I’ve caused you too much trouble.
We could teach you,
Teach me what?
To cook, grow food. There are acres and acres of fields here.
You mean, I could become a farmer?
Yes,
You could.
Where’s my daddy?
There’s
 your daddy,
Where’s my daddy?
Welcome to our town,
Mind if I show you around?
I can’t stay,
I’m just passing through.
That’s what they all say,
Anyway,
what’s your hurry? You should at least have a
 look at all we have to offer. Here we have a store, a nice little store, and here
 —over here,
we have a place to go if you want to shoot the pool.
 Billiards, you know. You might like that.
Thank you,
Thank you very much.
She’s sweet, too,
Sometimes.
We have our share of rain,
but you get used to it.
Everything here seems sort of . . . damp,
You get used to it,
That’s what this place is all about, Edward.
 Getting used to things.
It’s not what I want,
That, too,
You get used to that, too.
Sure,
People like you come
 through here all the time.
What do you mean?
Normal people,
Normal people and their plans. This rain, this dampness—it’s a kind of
 residue. The residue of a dream. Of a lot of dreams, actually. Mine and his
 and yours.
Not mine,
No,
Not yet.
What’s this?
A dog,
Comes to check everybody out sooner or later,
 usually sooner. He’s a kind of gatekeeper, if you know what I mean.
No,
I don’t know what you mean.
You will,
You will. Call him,
Call? What’s his name?
No name. He never belonged to anybody so he never got a name. Just
 call him Dog.
Dog.
That’s right: Dog.
Here Dog! C’mere buddy! Here boy. Come on!
Maybe I should get out of his way,
I don’t think he’s taking to
 me so well.
Stick out your hand,
What?
Stick out your hand and let him smell it.
Willie, I don’t think—
Stick out your hand,
Does this mean I can go?
Not yet,
You’ll want a cup of coffee before you go.
You think you’ve got it made, don’t you, son?
Think you’re a real big fish. But you’re not the
 first we’ve seen. Look at Jimmy Edwards over there. Big football star. Good
 student. He wanted to be a businessman in the city, make his fortune,
 whatnot. Never made it out of here, though. Didn’t have the intestinal
 fortitude, you know.
That dog got his left
 index finger.
The number of times they tried to go,
Either out of here or
 back to where they came from. That dog,
don’t play games.
I—I wouldn’t trust that dog,
I just wouldn’t take
 the chance, son. He didn’t get you before but you never know about the next
 time. S’unpredictable. So sit tight,
and tell us all about the world
 you want to go to, and the things you want to find there.
That was nice.
Can we do it again tomorrow?
Let’s do it again tomorrow,
It’s good to have you,
Good to have you
here.
I know a real nice girl,
Pretty, too. Looks like me a
 little bit. I’d be happy to get you two together, if you know what I mean.
I’m sorry,
There’s been a
 misunderstanding. I’m not here to stay.
I reckon there has been a misunderstanding,
But we can’t let you go,
I have to go,
At least stay for a little while,
A few days at least.
Get to know us,
You’ll forget about the rest.
Hello!
Good-bye!
Buddy
The year was nineteensomething or other,
Longer ago than
 any of us want to remember. Edward had just left home. Seventeen years old.
 For the first time in his life he was on his own, but was he worried? No, he
 wasn’t worried: his mother had given him a few dollars to live on—ten,
 maybe twelve—more money, at any rate, than he had ever had in his life.
 And he had his dreams. Dreams are what keep a man going, William, and
 already your father was dreaming empire. But looking at him on the day he
 left that town he was born in, you would have seen little more than a young,
 handsome boy with nothing but the clothes on his back and the holes in his
 shoes. You might not have actually seen the holes in his shoes, but they were
 there, William; the holes were there.
 “That first day he walked thirty miles. That night, he slept under the stars
on a bed of pine straw. And here, on this night, is where fate’s hand first
 tugged on your father’s belt loops. For as he slept he was come upon by two
 men-of-the-woods, who beat him within an inch of his life and took from him
 every last dollar he had. He barely survived, and yet thirty years later when
 he first told me this story—and this to me is vintage Edward Bloom—he said
 that if he ever met with those men again, the two thugs who beat him within
 an inch of his life and took his last dollar, he would thank them—thank them
 —for, in a way, they determined the course of the rest of his life.
 “At the time, of course, dying in the dark of that strange wood, he was far
 from grateful. But by morning he was well rested, and, though bleeding still
 from various parts of his body, he began walking, no longer knowing or
 caring where he was going, but just walking, forward, onward, ready for
 whatever Life and Fate chose to hurl at him next—when he saw an old
 country store, and an old man out in front of it, rocking back and forth in his
 chair, back and forth, forth and back, who presently began to stare with alarm
 at the bloody figure approaching. He called for his wife, and she called for
 her daughter, and within half a minute they had a pot of hot water, a
 washcloth, and a bunch of bandages made from a sheet they had just torn into
 strips, and stood ready as Edward hobbled to meet them. They were ready to
 save this stranger’s life. More than ready: they were determined.
 “But of course, he wouldn’t let them. He could not let them save his life.
 No man of your father’s integrity—and they are few, William, they are a
 precious few and far between—would accept such charity, even when it was
 a matter of life or death. For how could he live with himself, if indeed he did
 live at all, knowing that his life was so inextricably bound to others, knowing
 that he was not his own man?
 “So, still bleeding, and with one of his legs broken in two places, Edward
 found a broom and swept the store clean. Then he found a mop and a pail, for
in his haste to do the right thing he had completely forgotten his open,
 profusely bleeding wounds, and didn’t realize until he had finished sweeping
 that he had left a trail of his own blood throughout the entire store. So he
 mopped. He scoured. He got on his knees with a rag and scrubbed as the old
 man, the wife, and child watched him. They were in awe. They were
 awestruck. They were watching a man trying to remove his own blood stains
 from a pine wood floor. It was impossible, impossible—yet he tried. That’s
 the thing, William: he tried, tried until he could try no more, until he fell on
 his face flat out, still clutching the rag—dead.
 “Or so they thought. They thought he had died. They rushed to his body:
 there was some life in him yet. And in a scene, as your father described it,
 that has always reminded me somehow of Michelangelo’s Pieta, the mother,
 a strong woman, lifted him up and held him in her arms, in her lap, this
 young man, this dying man, praying for his life. It seemed hopeless. But as
 the others anxiously crowded around him, he opened his eyes and said what
 might have been his last words, said to the old man whose store Edward had
 immediately realized was empty of customers, said in what might have been
 his last breath, ‘Advertise.’
And the rest, as they say, is history. Your father recovered. Soon he was
 strong again. He plowed the fields, weeded the gardens, helped around the
 store. He roamed about the countryside posting little notices, advertising for
 Ben Jimson’s Country Store. It was his idea to call it a ‘country’ store, by the
 way. He thought it sounded more friendly, more appealing than just ‘store,’
 and he was right. It was also at this time your father invented the slogan ‘Buy
 one, get one free.’ Five little words, William, but they turned Ben Jimson into
 a rich man.
 “He stayed with the Jimsons for almost a year, earning his first little nest
egg. The world, like a splendid flower, opened up for him. And as you can
 see,
for a boy
 from Ashland, Alabama, he’s done rather well.
Welcome,
Please be seated.
But whatever you do,
don’t look into the
 eye!
Why are you here?
The eye,
I’ve come for the eye.
The eye has called you here, has it not?
Have you not heard the
 eye calling for you?
I have,
I have heard the eye call to me.
Then take the eye and place it in the box, and stay with it all through the
 night, and return it here on the morrow. Should anything happen to the eye
 —
Should anything happen to eye,
if it becomes lost, or
 broken—
—then we shall take one of your eyes as recompense,
I see,
On the morrow, then,
Yes,
The morrow.
You’re late,
You’re late,
Sorry,
There was somebody I had to see.
Do you have the eye?
Yes,
The eye is here.
Give it here then,
It’s not here,
The eye’s not here!
I
 told you the eye was here. I didn’t say it was in the box.
Give it over!
You have no right! That eye belongs to
 us.
Does it?
What—
Who—
The eye,
I told you it was here.
There’s nothing I can do. I’m sorry. If you have any peace to
 make with Edward, anything to say at all, now might be . . . 
Maybe I should go in first,
Unless you want to.
No,
You go and then—
If anything—
Fine,
Just let me know.
William,
Why am I still
 alive? I feel like I should have died a long time ago.
You know,
You know what I’d like?
What’s that, Dad?
A glass of water,
A glass of water would really hit the spot
 about now.
Done,
Sorry,
Don’t worry about it,
You didn’t spill that much.
Not about that,
Well, apology accepted,
But you know, you’ve been a real
 trooper through this whole thing. Mom and I are real proud of you.
Oh, boy,
What
 were we just talking about?
Water,
What’s so funny?
I was just thinking,
that I’ll be getting out of this guest room
 just in time for guests.
Hey,
I’ll miss you.
And me you.
Really?
Of course, Dad. I’m the one—
Still here,
So it figures that you’d be the one doing the
 missing.
Do you,
do you believe—
Believe what?
In Heaven,
Do I believe in Heaven?
And God and all that stuff,
What a question,
I don’t know if I can
 really say, one way or the other. But that reminds me—and stop me if you’ve
 heard this one—of the day Jesus was watching the gates for St. Peter.
 Anyway, Jesus is giving him a hand one day when a man walks shuffling up
 the path to Heaven.
 “‘What have you done to enter the kingdom of Heaven?’ Jesus asks him.
“And the man says, ‘Well, not much really. I’m just a poor carpenter who
 led a quiet life. The only remarkable thing about my life was my son.’
 “‘Your son?’ Jesus asks, getting interested.
 “‘Yes, he was a quite a son,’ the man says. ‘He went through a most
 unusual birth and later a great transformation. He also became quite well
 known throughout the world and is still loved by many today.’
 “Christ looks at the man, embraces him tightly, and says ‘Father, father!’
 “And the old man hugs him back and says, ‘Pinocchio?’
Heard it,
You were supposed to stop me,
How many breaths do I have left? You don’t want me to waste them
 on twice-told jokes, do you?
It’s not like you’ve learned any new ones lately,
Anyway, this is
 sort of a best-of thing. A compilation. Edward Bloom’s Collected Jokes.
 They’re funny, Dad, don’t worry. But you didn’t answer my question.
What question?
Why do you think that is?
Never felt comfortable addressing these things head-on,
Who really knows for certain? Proof is
 unavailable. So one day I think yes, the next no. Other days, I’m on the fence.
 Is there a God? Some days I really believe there is, others, I’m not so sure.
 Under these less than ideal conditions, a good joke somehow seems more
 appropriate. At least you can laugh.
But a joke,
It’s funny for a minute or two and that’s it. You’re
 left with nothing. Even if you changed your mind every other day I’d rather
 —I wished you’d shared some of these things with me. Even your doubts
 would have been better than a constant stream of jokes.
You’re right,
Still,
if I shared my doubts with you, about God and love and
 life and death, that’s all you’d have: a bunch of doubts. But now, see, you’ve
 got all these great jokes.
They’re not all so great,
I was a good dad,
You are a good dad,
Thanks,
So. What is it today, Dad?
What is what?
God and Heaven and all that. What do you think: yes or no? Maybe
 tomorrow you’ll feel differently, I understand that. But now, right now, what
 are you feeling? I really want to know, Dad. Dad?
Dad?
Pinocchio?
Excuse me,
Sandra,
You don’t know me. You probably have never even seen
 me before. But I was wondering—if this is something you would consider, I
 mean—well, that this Friday night maybe we could go out somewhere
together. If you want.
Well, yes,
Friday
 would be nice,
It’s okay,
Probably some drunk kid.
No,
That’s Don.
She’s mine,
I didn’t know that she belonged to anybody,
Well, now you do, farm boy,
Sandra,
We’re getting married,
I’ve asked her to marry
 me, farm boy. Or didn’t she tell you?
The question is, what did she tell you?
I could tear you apart like a paper doll,
There’s no reason for that,
You better hope there’s not,
As long as Sandy gets in
 my car. Now.
She’s not going to be doing that, Don,
Who the hell are you to say?
You’re drunk, Don,
I’ll drive her down off the mountain, and
 then if she wants to go with you she can. How about that?
Thanks for giving me a goddamn choice, farm boy,
But no
 thanks.
He
 asked you to marry him, Sandy?
Yes,
He did.
And so what did you tell him?
I told him that I’d think about it,
And?
And I’ve thought about it,
There’s nothing to worry about,
Who’s worried?
DADDY,
I want you to meet Edward
 Bloom. Edward, Seth Templeton. Now y’all shake hands.
Why am I doing this?
Doing what?
Shaking this man’s hand?
’Cause he’s my husband,
We got married, Daddy.
Married!
So what’s all this about?
I love your daughter, Mr. Templeton,
And I’m going to
 love her and take care of her for the rest of my life.
Bloom, you say?
Knew a man named
 Bloom once. Rode with him. 1918, 1919, I was in the cavalry. Stationed in
 Yellowstone. In those days there were bandits. You may not have realized
 that. Mexican bandits mostly. Horse thieves and just regular thieves. We
 chased our share of them, Bloom and me. Along with the others, of course.
 Rogerson, Mayberry, Stimson. Right into Mexico. Oh yes. Our share. We
 chased them. Right into Mexico, Mr. Bloom. Right into Mexico.
You have a nice-looking horse out there,
You know about horses, then?
You’ve found a man who knows something about horses,
 haven’t you, dear?
I think I have, Daddy,
That’s good,
That’s very good.
Not a good day,
Best not disturb her.
You!
Bring me the girdle!
The girdle?
But none have arrived!
Oh yes they have!
I know they have arrived! You!
If she can’t serve me, you can. Bring me
 the girdle!
Can someone please help me?
I want to see the new
 girdle! Can someone please—
What do you want?
Here to serve you, Mrs. Rainwater.
Men don’t belong in this department!
And yet,
here I am. And I alone know where the new girdles
 are. I alone can help you.
No!
This can’t be . . . I, I—
I’d be happy to get it for you, Mrs. Rainwater. More than happy.
Fine then!
Get me the girdle!
This is it!
This is the girdle I’ve
 been waiting for all my life! And to think that you—you—I’ve been so
 unfair! Can you ever forgive me?
Oh, yes,
Oh my, yes. This is how I was meant to look. With
 this, I can probably get a new husband. I never thought girdles could come so
 far so quickly! But look at me! Just look!
You’ll go far here, young man,
Here doggy. Doggy, come here.
All hands on deck!
Blow up your life belts!
All hands on deck. Prepare to abandon ship.
Not a day goes by that I don’t think of you. I even pray—just
 started. Feels good. Hope it helps some.
I don’t . . . I don’t really know what’s going on. I can’t tell anymore.
 He seems pretty bad off, though. Best go see for yourself.
Incorrigible,
Completely and totally incorrigible.
Come in, William,
Well, you seem to be feeling better,
I am feeling better,
I think I am.
Not good, really,
I wouldn’t say good. But
 better.
I just wondered what bothered Dr. Bennett,
He seemed really
 concerned when he came out of here.
Honestly,
I think it was my jokes.
Your jokes?
My doctor jokes. I think he’d heard one too many,
I know a million of ’em,
I bet you do.
I give him a couple every time he comes in here. But . . . I guess he heard
 one too many. I don’t think he has a very good sense of humor anyway,
Most doctors don’t.
Or maybe he just wanted you to be straight with him,
Straight?
Straightforward,
Just be your normal average guy and tell him
 what is bothering you, where it hurts.
Ah,
As in, ‘Doctor, doctor! I’m dying, please cure me.’
 Like that?
Like that,
Sort of, but—
But we both know there is no cure for what I’ve got,
Reminds me of the Great Plague of ’33. No one knew what it was, or where
 it came from. One day everything seemed fine and the next—the strongest
 man in Ashland: dead. Died while eating his breakfast. Rigor mortis set in so
quick his body froze right there at the kitchen table, spoon lifted halfway to
 his mouth. After him, a dozen died in an hour. Somehow, I was immune. I
 watched my neighbors fall to the ground as though their bodies had become
 suddenly and irrevocably vacant, as if—
Dad,
No more stories, okay? No more stupid jokes.
They’re stupid?
I mean that in the nicest possible way.
Thank you.
Just for a little while,
let’s talk, okay? Man to man, father to son.
 No more stories.
Stories? You think I tell stories? You wouldn’t believe the stories my dad
 used to tell me. You think I tell you stories, when I was boy I heard stories.
 He’d wake me up in the middle of the night to tell me a story. It was awful.
But even that’s a story, Dad. I don’t believe it for a minute.
You’re not necessarily supposed to believe it,
You’re
 just supposed to believe in it. It’s like—a metaphor.
I forget,
What’s a metaphor?
Cows and sheep mostly,
See?
Even when you’re serious you can’t keep from joking. It’s
 frustrating, Dad. It keeps me at arm’s length. It’s like—you’re scared of me
 or something.
Scared of you?
I’m dying and I’m supposed to
 be scared of you?
Scared of getting close to me.
It must have something to do with my father,
My father was a
 drunk. I never told you that, did I? He was a terrible drunk, the worst kind.
Sometimes he was too drunk to get it for himself. He had me get it for him
 for a while but then I stopped, refused. Finally, he taught his dog, Juniper, to
 go get it. Carried an empty bucket to the corner saloon and had him bring it
 back full of beer. Paid for it by sticking a dollar bill into the dog’s collar. One
 day he didn’t have any ones, all he had was a five, so he stuck that in his
 collar.
 “The dog didn’t come back. Drunk as he was, my father went down to the
 bar and found the dog sitting there on a stool, drinking a double martini.
 “My dad was angry and hurt.
 “‘You never did anything like this before,’ my dad said to Juniper.
 “‘I never had the money before,’ Juniper said.
You can’t do it, can you?
Sure I can,
Okay,
Do it. Tell me something. Tell me about the place you
 come from.
Ashland,
Ashland. What was it like?
Small,
So small.
How small?
It was so small,
that when you plugged in an electric razor, the
 street light dimmed.
Not a good start,
People were so cheap there,
they ate beans to save on bubble
 bath.
I love you, Dad,
We deserve better than
 this. But you’re making this too hard. Help me, here. What were you like as a
 boy?
I was a fat boy,
Nobody would ever play with me. I was so fat
 I could only play seek. That’s how fat I was,
so fat I had to make
 two trips just to leave the house,
One
 more chance. I’ll give you one more chance and then I’m leaving, I’m going,
 and I don’t know if I’m coming back. I’m not going to be your straight man
 anymore.
You’re not yourself today son,
and it’s a great improvement.
I know when I’m going to die,
I’ve
 seen it. I know when and how it’s going to happen and it’s not today, so don’t
 worry.
How do you—why—
I’ve always known,
always had this power, this vision.
 I’ve had it since I was a boy. When I was a boy I had a series of dreams.
 They woke me up screaming. My father came to me on the first night and
 asked me what was wrong and I told him. I told him I’d dreamed my aunt
 Stacy had died. He assured me that Aunt Stacy was fine and I went back to
bed.
 “But the next day she died.
 “A week or so later the same thing happened. Another dream, I woke up
 screaming. He came to my room and asked me what had happened. I told him
 I dreamed Gramps had died. Again he told me—though with perhaps a bit of
 trepidation in his voice—that Gramps was fine, and so I went back to sleep.
 “The next day, of course, Gramps died.
 “For a few weeks I didn’t have another dream. Then I did, I had another,
 and Father came and asked me what I had dreamed and I told him: I dreamed
 that my father had died. He of course assured me that he was fine and to think
 no more of it, but I could tell it rattled him, and I heard him pacing the floor
 all night, and the next day he was not himself, always looking this way and
 that as if something was going to fall on his head, and he went into town
 early and was gone for a long time. When he came back he looked terrible, as
 if he had been waiting for the ax to fall all day.
 “‘Good God,’ he said to my mother when he saw her. ‘I’ve had the worst
 day of my entire life!’
 “‘You think you’ve had a bad day,’ she says. ‘The milkman dropped dead
 on the porch this morning!’
Hey!
Where’s your sense of
 humor? And if not your sense of humor, your pity? Come back!
Give me a break, son, please! I’m dying in here!
Someday son, this will all be yours.
Stay out of the ditch, William.
Stay out of
 the ditch, William.
I told you to stay out of the ditch,
What ditch?
Had you going there, didn’t I?
How
 is my sweet little darling precious cat? Tell me, neighbor, please.
I’m sorry to have to tell you this, Roger. But your
 cat is dead. It was run over by a car. Killed instantly. Sorry.
That’s not the way you tell somebody about
 something as horrible as this! When something like this happens you tell the
 person slowly, you ease them into it. You prepare them! For instance. When I
called this evening you should have said, Your cat’s on the roof. Then the
 next time I call you would say, The cat’s still on the roof, he won’t come
 down and he’s looking pretty sick. Then the next time I call you might tell
 me the cat fell off the roof and that he’s now at the vet in intensive care.
 Then, then the next time I call you tell me—your voice sort of quivery and
 shaky—that he died. Got it?
Got it,
Sorry.
Yes. As a matter of fact, yes. Something important has happened.
Well?
Well,
It’s about your father.
My father!
My father! What about my father?
Your father,
is on the roof . . .
Hello,
I’m—
I know who you are,
You are his son.
That’s right,
You have some word for us?
None,
I mean, he’s about the same, I guess.
The same,
He’s still swimming, then?
Yes,
Every day. He really loves it.
This is good,
He is still swimming!
But there’s something else you came to tell us, isn’t there?
There is,
It’s just that, I know you mean well, and you all seem
 very nice. But I’m afraid that—
 “We must go,
You want us to leave.
Yes,
I’m afraid so.
It will be hard,
to go. These people—they really care.
 They’ll be lost without this place. Not for long, of course. Lives have a way
 of getting on with themselves. But in the short run it will be hard. Your
 mother—
It makes her nervous,
All these people in the yard, day and
 night. You can understand that.
Of course,
And there’s the mess, too. We’ve almost
 completely destroyed the front yard.
There is that.
Not to worry,
We shall
leave it as we found it.
She’ll be pleased.
William Bloom?
You are William Bloom, aren’t you?
Yes,
I am.
Give this to your father,
Healing herbs in a little pillow,
I made it myself. They might
 help.
Thank you,
I’ll see to it he gets them.
He saved my life, you know,
There was a great fire. He risked
 his own life to save mine. And here—here I am today.
Not for long,
He’s asked us to leave.
Edward?
Edward Bloom has asked us to leave?
No,
His wife and son.
As you said it would be,
The son would come to us and ask us
 to leave. It is just as you said.
My mother asked me to,
This is not something I enjoy.
Well,
that was something, wasn’t it? He
 looked good. He looked very good.
You’re taking good care of him,
Keep up the good work!
I owe everything to your father!
See,
We all have stories, just as you do. Ways in
 which he touched us, helped us, gave us jobs, lent us money, sold it to us
 wholesale. Lots of stories, big and small. They all add up. Over a lifetime it
 all adds up. That’s why we’re here, William. We’re a part of him, of who he
 is, just as he is a part of us. You still don’t understand, do you?
And what did my father do for you?
He made me laugh,
Why does an elephant have a trunk?
Because he
 doesn’t have a glove compartment,
I RECKON MR. BLOOM will have himself a soda on a day as hot as this
 one,
Let me get one for you, Mr. Bloom.
Thank you, Al,
That will be fine, actually. A soda will
 be fine.
Mr. Bloom, I know I’ve said it before. I know I have. But I
 will say it again. It is great what you’ve done with this town.
I haven’t done anything with this town, Wiley.
That’s just it!
We think that’s great.
How is that soda, Mr. Bloom?
Refreshing,
It’s quite refreshing, Al. Thank you.
I have to say what Wiley says,
Not every man could come and
 buy a whole town for the love of it.
Thank you, Al,
When I saw Specter, I knew I had to have it. I
 don’t know why except to say it’s so. I had to have it all. I suppose in part it
 has to do with circles, with entireties. It is very difficult for a man such as
 myself to settle for a piece of something. If part of something is good, the
 whole of it can only be better. And as far as Specter is concerned, this is
 certainly the case. To have it all—
But you don’t,
Wiley,
Well, it’s the truth!
Can’t be wrong to say it if it’s so.
Well, that can’t be, Wiley,
That is, not as far as I know. I’ve
 been over every inch of this town either on foot or in my car, or seen it from
 the air, and I feel sure I’ve purchased it all. In its entirety. The whole kit and
 caboodle. It’s a perfect circle.
Fine then,
I won’t bring up that patch of ground with the
 shack on it between where the road stops and the lake starts that just might be
 hard to find by foot or car or to see from the air, and just might not be on any
 map, or how whoever owns it has a piece of paper you’ve never seen to sign,
 Mr. Bloom. Because you and Al have all the truth with you over there. Don’t
 know what I’m talking about, I guess. My apologies to you who knows
 better.
Hello!
Is anybody home?
Sure,
May I come in?
Wipe your feet on the mat.
Edward Bloom,
You are Ed Bloom, aren’t you?
Yes,
How did you know?
Figured,
I mean, who else?
I’m sorry?
This is mine,
You?
But you’re just a—
Woman,
Near about.
I’m sorry,
I don’t mean—
Business, Mr. Bloom,
You said something
 about some business.
Oh, yes,
Now let me get this straight. You’ll buy this swamp from
 me, but I’ll stay in it. You’ll own the house, but it’ll still be mine. I’ll be here,
 and you’ll come and go as you please to one place or another because there’s
 a flaw in your nature. Do I have that right?
Then I don’t think so,
 Mr. Bloom. If nothing is going to change, I’d just as soon they not change the
 way things haven’t been changing all this time.
But you don’t understand,
In essence you will lose nothing.
 Everybody actually gains by this. Don’t you see? You can ask anybody in
 Specter. I have been nothing if not beneficent. In every way, the people of
 Specter have profited by my presence here.
Let them profit,
It’s a small thing, really. I wish you’d reconsider.
I only want the best for everybody.
Especially you,
For everybody,
Including me.
I don’t have any folks, Mr. Bloom,
They’ve been gone a long
 time.
I’ve been fine here. I know things
 —well, you might be surprised at all I know. It’s not like some big check is
 going to change anything for me. Money—I just don’t need it. I don’t need
 anything, Mr. Bloom. I’m happy the way things are.
Young woman,
what is your name?
Jenny,
My name is Jenny Hill.
It’s Mr. Bloom!
It’s everywhere,
You know, they have
 a drink named after you.
You mean they have a
 drink named Howard?
Dad?
Did you see that?
Did you see that fish, Dad?
team,
I’ll tell you,
I
 want to speak to you candidly now.
Mr. Bloom may not make it out of this one,
I see.
There are a couple of things we want to try—we’re not giving
 up, not by a long shot. But I’ve seen this sort of thing before. It’s sad, I—I’ve
 known Edward Bloom for a quarter of a century. I don’t feel like his doctor
 anymore. I feel like a friend, you know? A friend who wishes he could do
 something. But without the machines . . . 
What a poor, poor
 man!
Yes—but what a nice suit!
Yes—but what a nice suit!
Some water,
Get me some water.
Son,
I’m worried.
What is it you’re worried about, Dad? The hereafter?
No, dummy. I’m worried about you.
You’re an
 idiot. You couldn’t get yourself arrested without me along to help.
Don’t worry about me, Dad. I’ll be okay. I’ll be fine.
I’m a father, I can’t help it. A father worries. I am a father,
and as a father I’ve tried to teach you a
 thing or two. I really did try. Maybe I wasn’t around so much, but when I
 was, I tried to teach. So what I want to know is—you think I did a good job?
Wait! Don’t answer that!
Oh, go on, then. Just tell me before
I die. Tell me what it is I’ve taught you. Tell me everything it is I’ve taught
 you about life so I can go ahead and die and so I won’t have to worry so
 much. Just . . . just go ahead and say it.
There’s this man,
There’s this man, and he’s a poor man,
 but he needs a suit, and—
Let’s get out of here,
Out of here?
Dad, you’re in no condition—
There’s a fold-up wheelchair in the bathroom,
Wrap a blanket
 around me. As soon as we get off this hall, we’ll be in the clear. But we don’t
 have much time. Hurry, son!
Go for it!
So. Where are we going?
The elevators,
The elevator to the lobby to wherever you parked your car. Parking deck?
Yes,
Then take me there,
Now. We don’t have much time.
Good job,
Thanks.
Still need to hurry, though, Will,
I need some water. I need
 some water bad.
I have some in the car,
A thermos full.
More than that,
We’ll get more,
I know you will, son,
I know it.
We won’t be needing that,
We won’t?
Not where we’re going,
That water, William?
Oh,
Here.
Ahh,
That’s the ticket.
Go north on Highway 1,
North on Highway 1,
There’s a place there,
There’s a river. A place by the river.
Edward’s Grove,
What?
Nothing,
How far now?
Just a couple more miles, I think,
I hope. I don’t feel so good.
What’s there?
Are you okay?
Been better,
I feel like that guy . . .
Hey, we don’t
 get that many kangaroos in here,
Yeah, and at these
 prices you’re not likely to get many more!
Here!
Carry me,
