You look lovely, Rose,
You’ll be the belle of the golf club.
I’m starving,
but I’ve no time to eat.
I’ll make a special tea for you later,
Eilis and myself
 are going to have our tea now.
That’s in case you want to go to the
 pictures,
And what about me?
She’ll tell you the story when she gets home,
That’s a nice thing to say!
Miss Kelly sent me with a message for you,
She wants to
 see you.
Does she?
And did she say what it was about?
No. You’re just to call up there tonight.
But why does she want to see me?
God, I don’t know, miss. I didn’t ask her. Do you want me to go back and
 ask her?
No, it’s all right. But are you sure the message is for me?
I am, miss. She says you are to call in on her.
Now,
Here you are, then,
I hear you have no job at all but a great head for figures.
Is that right?
Oh, the whole town, anyone who is anyone, comes into the shop and I
 hear everything.
And we are worked off our feet every Sunday here. Sure, there’s nothing
 else open. And we get all sorts, good, bad and indifferent. And, as a rule, I
 open after seven mass, and between the end of nine o’clock mass until eleven
 mass is well over, there isn’t room to move in this shop. I have Mary here to
 help, but she’s slow enough at the best of times, so I was on the lookout for
 someone sharp, someone who would know people and give the right change.
 But only on Sundays, mind. The rest of the week we can manage ourselves.
 And you were recommended. I made inquiries about you and it would be
 seven and six a week, it might help your mother a bit.
So that’s all I have to say now. You can start on Sunday, but come in
 tomorrow and learn off all the prices and we’ll show you how to use the
 scales and the slicer. You’ll have to tie your hair back and get a good shop
 coat in Dan Bolger’s or Burke O’Leary’s.
Well?
Oh, yes, Miss Kelly,
I’ll start whenever you like.
And on Sunday you can go to seven o’clock mass. That’s what we do,
 and we open when it’s over.
That’s lovely,
So, come in tomorrow, then. And if I’m busy I’ll send you home, or you
 can fill bags of sugar while you wait, but if I’m not busy, I’ll show you all the
 ropes.
Thank you, Miss Kelly,
Your mother’ll be pleased that you have something. And your sister,
I hear she’s great at the golf. So go home now like a good
 girl. You can let yourself out.
Did something happen?
Say nothing until we are a mile away from that house,
Mammy knows there’s something, but I’m not telling her.
She got off with George Sheridan,
When?
At the dance in the Athenaeum on Sunday night,
I thought you weren’t going to go.
I wasn’t and then I did.
She danced all night with him,
I didn’t, just the last four dances, and then he walked me home. But
 everybody saw. I’m surprised you haven’t heard.
And are you going to see him again?
I don’t know.
Maybe I’ll just see him on the street. He
 drove by me yesterday and beeped the horn. If there had been anyone else
 there, I mean anyone of his sort, he would have danced with her, but there
 wasn’t. He was with Jim Farrell, who just stood there looking at us.
If his mother finds out, I don’t know what she’ll say,
She’s awful. I hate going into that shop when Jim isn’t there. My mother
 sent me down once to get two rashers and that old one told me she didn’t sell
 rashers in twos.
I hope you told her what to do with it,
I told her I’d take it. It won’t do any harm. It means I might be able to go
 to the Athenaeum with you using my own money and prevent you being
 taken advantage of.
It wasn’t like that,
He was nice.
Are you going to see him again?
Will you come with me on Sunday night?
He
 mightn’t even be there, but Annette can’t come, and I’m going to need
 support in case he is there and doesn’t even ask me to dance or doesn’t even
 look at me.
I might be too tired from working for Miss Kelly.
But you’ll come?
I haven’t been there for ages,
I hate all those country fellows,
 and the town fellows are worse. Half drunk and just looking to get you up the
 Tan Yard Lane.
George isn’t like that,
He’s too stuck up to go near the Tan Yard Lane,
Maybe we’ll ask him if he’d consider selling rashers in twos in future,
Say nothing to him,
Are you really going to work for Miss
 Kelly? There’s a one for rashers.
Now there are people who come in here on a Sunday, if you don’t mind,
looking for things they should get during the week. What can you do?
I can’t stop her gawking at people for no reason. Even some of the regular
 customers.
You’ll have to learn how to pack sugar and wrap a loaf of bread,
Now, that’s one of the things that Mary is good at, God help
 her.
And I’m trying to teach this young lady,
I’m trying to teach her and I hope that
 she’s more than willing, because Mary, God bless her, is willing, but sure
that’s no use, it’s less than no use. I’m hoping that she’s quick and sharp and
 dependable, but nowadays you can’t get that for love or money.
But the Lord makes all types,
Oh, you’re right there, Miss Kelly,
And there’s no use in complaining, is
 there? Sure, don’t we need people to sweep the streets?
That Miss Kelly,
is as bad as her mother and I heard
 from someone who worked there that that woman was evil incarnate. And she
 was just a maid in Roche’s before she married. And Kelly’s used to be a
 boarding house as well as a shop, and if you worked for her, or even if you
 stayed there, or dealt in the shop, she was evil incarnate. Unless, of course,
 you had plenty of money or were one of the clergy.
I’m just there until something turns up,
That’s what I said to Rose when I was telling her,
And don’t listen to her if she says anything to you.
No one likes flies,
especially on a Sunday.
That bread there,
is the freshest. It came
 yesterday evening all the way from Stafford’s, but it is only for special
 customers. So you don’t touch that bread whatever you do. The other bread’ll
 do fine for most people. And we have no tomatoes. Those ones there are not
 for anybody unless I give precise instructions.
Oh, Mrs. Prendergast now,
the new girl will look after you
 now and Mary will carry everything out to the car for you.
I need to finish this first,
Oh, Mary will do that,
I’m next,
Now, we are very busy and you will have to wait your turn.
But I was next,
and that woman was served before me.
So what is it you want?
Eilis will deal with you now,
but only after Mrs.
 Murphy here.
I was before her too,
I’m afraid you are mistaken,
Eilis, hurry up now, this
 man is waiting. No one has all day, so he’s next, after Mrs. Murphy. What
 price did you charge for that tea?
I went into that shop once,
on my way home from mass and
 she served Mary Delahunt before me. I turned and walked out. And there was
 a smell of something. I can’t think what it was. She has a little slave, doesn’t
 she? She took her out of a convent.
Her father was a nice enough man,
but she had no
 chance because her mother was, as I told you, Eilis, evil incarnate. I heard
 that when one of the maids got scalded she wouldn’t even let her go to the
 doctor. The mother had Nelly working there from the time she could walk.
She’s never seen daylight, that’s what’s wrong with her.
Nelly Kelly?
Is that really her name?
In school they had a different name for her.
What was it?
Everyone called her Nettles Kelly. The nuns couldn’t stop us. I remember
 her well, she was a year or two behind me. She’d always have five or six girls
 following behind her coming from the Mercy Convent shouting ‘Nettles.’ No
 wonder she’s so mad.
You wouldn’t know whether to laugh or to cry,
Now, the rule is,
that we are not even looking at George
 Sheridan and he might be with a whole crowd from the rugby club, or he
 might not even be there at all. They often go to Courtown on a Sunday night,
 that crowd. So we are to be deep in conversation. And I’m not dancing with
 anyone else, just in case he came in and saw me. So if someone is coming
 over to ask us to dance, we just stand up and go to the ladies’.
They look like they are at a cattle mart,
And God, it’s the
 hair oil I hate.
If one of them comes over, I’ll stand up immediately,
and
 you tell them that you have to go with me to the cloakroom.
We should have bottle glasses and buck teeth and have left our hair all
 greasy,
We’ll get a name for being wallflowers,
You could be called worse,
Oh, you could. You could be called the Courtnacuddy Bus,
We must look mad,
That’s it,
I’m going home.
Wait, don’t do that,
We’ll go to the ladies’ at the end of this
 set and then discuss what to do.
Don’t go near that Athenaeum again,
Your father knew his father well,
Years ago. They
 went to the races together a few times. And your father drank in Farrell’s
 sometimes. It’s very well kept. And his mother is a very nice woman, she was
 a Duggan from Glenbrien. It must be the rugby club has him that way, and it
must be sad for his parents having a pup for a son because he’s an only
 child.
He sounds like a pup all right and he looks like one,
Well, he was in a bad mood last night anyway,
That’s all I
 have to say. I suppose he might think that George should be with someone
 grander than Nancy.
There’s no excuse for that,
Nancy Byrne is one of the
 most beautiful girls in this town. George would be very lucky to get her.
I wonder would his mother agree,
Some of the shopkeepers in this town,
especially the
 ones who buy cheap and sell dear, all they have is a few yards of counter and
 they have to sit there all day waiting for customers. I don’t know why they
 think so highly of themselves.
She must think we’re paupers,
What would we do with
 stale bread? Rose will go mad. Don’t go there the next time she sends for
 you. Tell her you’re busy.
But I’m not busy.
A proper job will turn up. That’s what I’m praying for every day.
Flood?
There was a crowd of Floods out near
Monageer, but I don’t remember any of them becoming a priest. I don’t know
 what became of them, you never see any of them now.
There’s Murphy Floods,
That’s not the same,
Anyway,
I invited him in for his tea when he said that he’d
 like to call on you and he’s coming tomorrow.
Oh, God,
What would an American priest like for his
 tea? I’ll have to get cooked ham.
Miss Kelly has the best cooked ham,
No one is buying anything from Miss Kelly,
Father Flood
 will eat whatever we give him.
Would cooked ham be all right with tomatoes and lettuce, or maybe roast
 beef, or would he like a fry?
Anything will be fine,
With plenty of brown bread and
 butter.
We’ll have it in the dining room, and we’ll use the good china. If I could
 get a bit of salmon, maybe. Would he eat that?
He’s very nice,
He’ll eat anything you put in front of him.
I don’t think I knew her,
The only Rochford we knew
 was old Hatchethead.
Hatchethead was my uncle,
Was he?
But of course we didn’t call him that,
His real name
 was Seamus.
Well, he was very nice,
Weren’t we awful to call him
 that?
In the United States,
there would be plenty of work for
 someone like you and with good pay.
She thought of going to England,
but the boys said to
 wait, that it wasn’t the best time there, and she might only get factory work.
In Brooklyn, where my parish is, there would be office work for someone
 who was hard-working and educated and honest.
It’s very far away, though,
That’s the only thing.
Parts of Brooklyn,
are just like Ireland. They’re
 full of Irish.
It would be a great opportunity, especially if you were young,
It might be very dangerous,
Not in my parish,
It’s full of lovely people. A lot of
 life centres round the parish, even more than in Ireland. And there’s work for
 anyone who’s willing to work.
He seems very genuine,
I’ll say that for him.
Keep that letter safe now,
and we’ll show it to Rose when she
 comes in.
Oh, you’ve come at the worst time now,
Just when we
 thought we would have a bit of peace. Now don’t disturb that Mary one
 whatever you do.
She’d
 fall as soon as she’d look at you.
Well, I just came to say that I’ll be going to America in about a month’s
 time,
I’m going to work there and I wanted to give you plenty of
 notice.
Is that right?
But I’ll be here on Sundays of course until I go.
Is it a reference you’re looking for?
No. Not at all. I just came to let you know.
Well, that’s lovely now. So we’ll see you when you come home on
 holidays, if you’ll still be talking to everyone.
I’ll be here on Sunday,
Ah, no, we won’t be needing you at all. If you’re going, you’re best to
 go.
But I could come.
No, you couldn’t. There’d be too much talk about you and there’d be too
 much distraction and we’re very busy on a Sunday, as you know, without
 that.
I was hoping I could work until I left.
Not here you can’t. So be off with you now. We have plenty of work,
 more deliveries today and more stacking. And no time for talking.
Well, thank you very much.
And thank you too.
You’ll miss her when she’s gone, I’d say.
Oh, it’ll kill me when she goes,
Some people are nice,
and if you talk to them properly, they
 can be even nicer.
That’ll be my motto in America,
That’s enough of that now,
People will think…
What?
It’s great to see you,
Really great to see you.
mate
No more of that now,
Rose sent me a list of instructions, and
 they included one that said no kissing and hugging.
This is going to take you to America,
It’s like time and
 patience.
What about time and patience?
Time and patience would bring a snail to America. Did you never hear
 that?
Oh, don’t be so stupid,
Daddy always said that,
When I was out of the room,
Time and patience would bring a snail to America,
A bun,
maybe and a cup of tea.
Enjoy your last cup of tea, so,
Do they not have tea in America?
Are you joking? They eat their young in America. And they talk with
 their mouths full.
Rose said you were to have a good dinner later in case the food on the
 boat was not to your liking,
What are they like?
Who?
The English.
They’re fair, they’re decent,
If you do your job, then they
 appreciate that. It’s all they care about, most of them. You get shouted at a bit
 on the street, but that’s just Saturday night. You pay no attention to it.
What do they shout?
Nothing for the ears of a nice girl going to America.
Tell me!
I certainly will not.
Bad words?
Yes, but you learn to pay no attention and we have our own pubs so
 anything that would happen would be just on the way home. The rule is never
 to shout back, pretend nothing is happening.
And at work?
No, work is different. It’s a spare-parts warehouse. Old cars and broken
 machinery are brought in from all over the country. We take them to pieces
 and sell the parts on, down to the screws and the scrap metal.
What exactly do you do? You can tell me everything.
I’m in charge of the inventory. As soon as a car is stripped, I get a list of
 every single part of it, and with old machines some parts can be very rare. I
 know where they’re kept and if they’re sold. I worked out a system so
 everything can be located easily. I have only one problem.
What’s that?
Most people who work in the company think they’re free to liberate any
 spare part that their mates might need them to take home.
What do you do about that?
I convinced the boss that we should let anyone working for us have
 anything they want within reason at half the price and that means we have
 things under control a bit more, but they still take stuff. Why I’m in change of
 the inventory is that I came recommended by a friend of the boss. I don’t
 steal spare parts. It’s not that I’m honest or anything. I just know I’d get
 caught so I wouldn’t risk it.
Do you see Pat and Martin much?
You sound like a quiz master.
Your letters are great but they never tell us anything we want to know.
 And Pat and Martin’s letters are worse.
There’s not much to say. Martin moves around too much but he might
 settle in the job he has now. But we all meet on a Saturday night. The pub
 and then the dancehall. We get nice and clean on a Saturday night. It’s a pity
 you’re not coming to Birmingham, there’d be a stampede for you on a
 Saturday night.
You make it sound horrible.
It’s great gas. You’d enjoy it. There are more men than women.
Would you ever think of going home to live?
Ah, there’s nothing there for me,
In the first few months I
 couldn’t find my way around at all and I was desperate to go home. I would
 have done anything to go home. But now I’m used to it, and I like my wage
packet and my independence. I like the way the boss at work, or even the
 boss in the place I was before, never asked me any questions; they both just
 made up their minds about me because of the way I worked. They never
 bother me, and if you suggest something to them, a better way of doing
 things, they’ll listen.
And what are English girls like?
There’s one of them very nice,
I couldn’t vouch for the
 rest of them.
What’s her name?
I’m telling you nothing more.
I won’t tell Mammy.
I heard that before. I’ve told you enough now.
I hope you don’t make her come to some flea-pit on a Saturday night.
She’s a good dancer. She doesn’t mind. And it’s not a flea-pit.
And do Pat and Martin have girlfriends as well?
Martin is always getting stood up.
And is Pat’s girlfriend English as well?
You’re just fishing for information. No wonder they told me to meet
 you.
Is she English too?
She’s from Mullingar.
If you don’t tell me your girlfriend’s name, I’m going to tell everybody.
Tell them what?
That you make her come to a flea-pit on a Saturday night.
I’m telling you nothing more. You’re worse than Rose.
She’s probably got one of those posh English names. God, wait until
 Mammy finds out. Her favourite son.
Don’t say a word to her.
This is hell,
You’re on the top bunk. Number one means bottom bunk and that’s on
 my ticket,
So move. My name is Georgina.
This is the smallest room,
you couldn’t keep a cat in
 here, let alone swing one.
I need a fag but they won’t let us smoke down here,
Never again,
Never again.
Never again such a big trunk or never again going to
 America?
Never again in third class. Never again the trunk. Never again going
 home to Liverpool. Just never again. Does that answer your question?
But you like the bottom bunk?
Yes, I do. Now, you’re Irish so come and have a cigarette with me.
I’m sorry. I don’t smoke.
Just my luck. No bad habits.
We could meet someone we like,
who could invite us to the
 first-class lounge.
Look at them,
They’re the first-class passengers. They get the best view. But I know a way
 around. Come on with me.
I’m all right here,
There’ll be no view in a minute anyway.
Suit yourself. But, by
 the look of it and from what I’ve heard, it’s going to be one of those nights,
 one of the worst. The steward who carried my trunk down said it was going
to be one of those nights.
Oh, the poor little pet,
They wouldn’t open the bathroom door,
The bastards!
They do that every time, some of them,
 whoever gets in first locks the door. Watch me dealing with them.
Now, we have to block their door because tonight is going to be even
 worse,
There’s only one solution,
If I put my trunk in here, we
 won’t be able to close the door, we’ll have to sit sideways on the toilet, but
 they won’t have a chance of getting in. You poor pet.
What did you have for dinner?
I think it was mutton.
And peas, plenty of peas. And how do you feel?
I have never felt worse. Did I leave a big mess in the corridor?
Yes, but the whole ship’s a mess. Even first class is a mess. They’ll start
 the cleaning there and it’ll be hours before they make it down here. Why did
 you eat such a big dinner?
I didn’t know.
Did you not hear them saying it when we were coming on board? It’s the
 worst storm in years. It’s always bad, especially down here, but this one is
 terrible. Just drink water, nothing else, no solids. It’ll do wonders for your
 figure.
I’m sorry about the smell.
They’ll come and clean it all up. We’ll move the trunk again when we
 hear them coming and we’ll put it back when they go. I got spotted in first
 class and I’ve been warned to stay down here until we dock or I’ll be arrested
 at the other side. So I’m afraid you’ve got company. And, darling, when I
 vomit, you’ll know all about it. And that’s all’s going to happen for the next
 day or so, vomiting, plenty of it. And then I’m told we’ll be in calm waters.
I feel terrible,
It’s called seasickness, duck, and it turns you green.
Do I look terrible?
Oh, yes, and so does every person on this boat.
Fuck off!
Can you hear me? Good! Now, fuck off!
I need to go to the toilet now,
I hope you don’t mind.
They missed their chance. That will teach them now!
They have only one waiter,
so you can take what you like.
 This is your ration for tonight. Eat nothing and drink plenty, that’s the key. It
 won’t stop you being sick, but it won’t be as bad.
It feels as if the boat is being pushed back all the time,
From down here it always feels like that,
But stay still
 and save your breath and vomit to your heart’s content when you feel like it
 and you’ll be a new woman tomorrow.
You sound like you have been on this boat thousands of times.
I have,
I go home once a year to see my mam. It’s a lot
 of suffering for a week. By the time I’ve recovered I have to go back. But I
 love seeing them all. We’re not getting any younger, any of us, so it’s nice to
 spend a week together.
Nothing fancy,
We don’t want you looking like a tart.
And wear your coat over your arm and look as though you know where
 you’re going and don’t wash your hair again, the water on this boat has made
 it stand out like a ball of steel wool. You’ll need to spend a few hours
 brushing it to get it into any shape at all.
Don’t look too innocent,
When I put some eye-liner on you
 and some rouge and mascara, they’ll be afraid to stop you. Your suitcase is
 all wrong, but there’s nothing we can do about that.
What’s wrong with it?
It’s too Irish and they stop the Irish.
Really?
Try not to look so frightened.
I’m hungry.
We’re all hungry. But, darling, you don’t need to look hungry. Pretend
 you are full.
And I almost never wear make-up at home.
Well, you’re about to enter the land of the free and the brave. And I don’t
 know how you got that stamp on your passport. The priest must know
 someone. The only thing they can stop you for is if they think you have TB,
 so don’t cough whatever you do, or if they think you have some funny eye
 disease, I can’t remember the name of it. So keep your eyes open.
 Sometimes, they don’t stop you at all, except to look at your papers.
I didn’t come all the way to America, thank you, to hear people talking
 Italian on the street or see them wearing funny hats,
Brooklyn changes every day,
New people arrive and they could be Jewish or Irish or Polish or even
 coloured. Our old customers are moving out to Long Island and we can’t
 follow them, so we need new customers every week. We treat everyone the
 same. We welcome every single person who comes into this store. They all
 have money to spend. We keep our prices low and our manners high. If
 people like it here, they’ll come back. You treat the customer like a new
 friend. Is that a deal?
You give them a big Irish smile.
A lot of them started like
 you, on the shop floor. And they did night classes and studied and now
 they’re in the office. Some of them are actual accountants, fully qualified.
I’d like to study bookkeeping,
I’ve already done a basic
 course.
It’ll be different here, different systems,
But I’ll find
 out if there are any courses nearby with places open. Even if they don’t have
 places open, we’ll see if we can get one open. But it’d be best not to mention
 this to Miss Bartocci and concentrate for the moment, as far as she is
 concerned, on the job you have.
yes
Miss Fortini is going to teach you how to use the cash system, which is
 easy once you know it. And if you have any problems, go to her first, even
 the smallest thing. The only way for the customers to be happy is for the staff
 to be happy. You work nine to six, Monday through Saturday, with forty-five
minutes for lunch and one half-day a week. And we encourage all our staff to
 do night classes—
We were speaking about that just now,
So if you wanted to do night classes, we would pay part of the tuition. Not
 all of it, mind. And if you want to purchase anything in the store, you tell
 Miss Fortini and with most things there will be a reduction in the price.
If you don’t make mistakes, they’ll notice you and they’ll get to like you,
It’s better to go slowly and then you won’t make mistakes,
Mr. Bartocci always keeps it a secret. He supervises all the work himself
 overnight. The whole floor is nylon, everything nylon, and most at half price.
 You can buy four items yourself. And this is a special bag to keep the money
 in because you can only accept exact change. We’ve put even prices on
 everything. So no dockets today. And there will be tight security. It will be
 the biggest scramble you’ve ever seen in your life because even the nylon
 stockings are half price. And there’s no lunch break, instead there will be free
 sandwiches and soda down here, but don’t come more than twice. I’ll be
 watching. We need everyone working.
Well, if you ever hear, even a rumour,
you’ll have to let us
 all know. And the nylon stockings are the best, they don’t run as easily as
 some of the others. They’d sell you garbage, some of those other stores.
That’s enough now,
I’m sure all the stores are doing
 their best.
I’m fine,
You look sad,
Cheer up,
Come on, cheer up. It’ll never
 happen. Give us a smile.
They are neither fish nor fowl,
You couldn’t wear them to
 work and they mightn’t look great on a night out somewhere. I can’t see why
 you bought them unless there was a sale.
Oh, then,
All I can say is that I hope you kept the
 receipt.
Well, I quite like them,
So do I,
But when would you wear them?
I just like them,
You don’t look well,
Why don’t you go downstairs and have a glass of water and I’ll be down
in a second?
Now you’ll have to tell me what’s wrong,
Because I can see that there’s
 something wrong and soon some of the customers will begin to notice and
 then we’ll all be in trouble.
I don’t know what’s wrong.
Is it your time of the month?
Eilis
why are you upset?
Would you like me to call Miss Bartocci?
No.
Then what?
I don’t know what it is.
Are you sad?
Yes.
All the time?
Yes.
Do you wish you were with your family at home?
Yes.
Do you have family here?
No.
No one?
No one.
When did the sadness begin? You were happy last week.
I got some letters.
Bad news?
No, no, nothing.
Just the letters? Have you been out of Ireland before?
No.
Away from your father and mother?
My father is dead.
Your mother?
I’ve never been away from her before.
I’ll need to talk to Miss Bartocci and the priest you came with.
Please don’t.
They won’t cause a problem. But you cannot work here if you’re sad.
 And of course you’re sad if you’re not with your mother for the first time in
 your life. But the sadness won’t last so we’ll do what we can for you.
Mr. Bartocci says you are to stay down here until he hears from Father
 Flood and he told me to get you this sandwich. You are one lucky girl. He is
 sometimes nice the first time like this. But I wouldn’t cross him twice. No
one crosses Mr. Bartocci twice.
I didn’t cross him,
Oh, you did, dear. Turning up in that state to work and having that look
 on your face. Oh, you crossed Mr. Bartocci and it’s something that he’ll
 never forget.
I hear there’s trouble,
It’s all my fault,
They said you were doing great here and Mrs.
 Kehoe says you’re the nicest girl she’s ever had staying and so I thought you
 don’t want me coming around checking up on you.
I was all right until I got the letters from home,
Do you know what’s wrong with you?
What do you mean?
There’s a name for it.
For what?
You’re homesick, that’s all. Everybody gets it. But it passes. In some it
 passes more quickly than in others. There’s nothing harder than it. And the
 rule is to have someone to talk to and to keep busy.
I am busy.
Eilis, I hope you don’t mind if I try and enrol you in a night class. Do you
 remember we mentioned bookkeeping and accountancy? It would be two or
 three nights a week, but it would keep you busy and you could get a very
 good qualification.
Is it not too late to enrol for this year? Some of the girls said that you have
 to apply in the spring.
It’s a funny place, Brooklyn,
As long as the guy in
 charge is not Norwegian—and in a college that’s unlikely—then I can pull
 strings most places. The Jews are the best, they always love doing something
 for you. Say a prayer it’s a Jewish fellow who believes in the power of the
collar. We’ll try the best college first, and that’s Brooklyn College. I love
 breaking all the rules. So I’ll go down there now and Franco says you are to
 go home, but be here on time in the morning with a big smile. And I’ll drop
 by Ma Kehoe’s later.
Ma Kehoe.
You go into the sitting room there now,
I’m going to
 make tea for the two of us.
Now I’ll leave the two of you in peace,
If you need
 me, I’m in the kitchen.
The power of the Holy Roman and Apostolic Church is not to be
 underestimated,
The first thing I found was a nice
 devout Italian secretary who told me what courses are full and what courses
 are really full, and most important told me what not to ask for. I told her the
 whole story. I had her in tears.
I’m glad you think it’s funny,
Oh, cheer up. I got you into the night class in bookkeeping and
 preliminary accountancy. I told them how brilliant you were. You’re the first
 Irish girl. It’s full of Jews and Russians and those Norwegians I told you
 about and they’d like to have even more Italians, but they’re too busy making
 money. The Jewish fellow who runs the place looked like he never saw a
 priest in his life before. He stood to attention when he saw me like it was the
 army. Brooklyn College, only the best. I paid your tuition for the first
 semester. It’s Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, seven to ten, and Thursday,
 seven to nine. If you do it for two years and pass all their tests, there’s no
 office in New York won’t want you.
Will I have time?
Of course you will. And start next Monday. I’ll get you the books. I have
 a list here. And you can spend your spare time studying them.
Are you sure this is okay?
It’s done.
Did Rose ask you to do this? Is that why you are doing it?
I’m doing it for the Lord,
Tell me really why you are doing it.
I was amazed that someone like you would not have a good job in Ireland.
 When your sister mentioned that you had no work in Ireland, then I said I
would help you to come here. That’s all. And we need Irish girls in
 Brooklyn.
Would any Irish girl do?
Don’t be sour. You asked me why I was doing it.
I’m very grateful to you,
You’ll make a great accountant,
But a bookkeeper first. And no
 more tears? Is that a deal?
No more tears,
Now, it will be just ham or a slice of tongue and some salad and brown
 bread. You’ll have to get tea somewhere along the way,
And I told Father Flood that since I would already be getting my reward in
 heaven, I have that nicely arranged, thank you, he owes me a favour that I
 would like repaid on this earth. And before too long. You know it’s about
 time someone spoke up to him.
He’s very nice,
He’s nice to those he’s nice to,
But I hate a priest
 rubbing his hands together and smiling. You see that a lot with the Italian
 priests and I don’t like it. I wish he was more dignified. That’s all I have to
 say about him.
Maybe we’d better ask him what book he’s reading from,
I don’t think he’s reading from a book,
Are you British?
No, Irish.
Oh, Irish,
Well, see you next week.
 Maybe we can ask him then.
Well, I wish you would take a few of the others with you,
I won’t name them or anything, but it’s the one day of the year I like a
 bit of peace. Indeed, I might end up presenting myself to you and Father
 Flood as a person in need. Just to get a bit of peace.
I’m sure you would be very welcome, Mrs. Kehoe,
But of course you’ll be needed here. And it’s nice
 to be in your own house for Christmas.
I dread it, to be honest,
And if it wasn’t for my
 religious convictions, I’d ignore it like the Jews do. In parts of Brooklyn, it
 could be any day of the week. I always think that’s why you get a biting cold
 on a Christmas Day, to remind you. And we’ll miss you now for the dinner. I
 was looking forward to having a Wexford face.
Last year she waited until the last minute, and that took all the good out of
 it,
Do you know something?
There’s no taste
 off American turkeys, even the one we had at Thanksgiving tasted of nothing
 except sawdust. It isn’t Mrs. Kehoe’s fault, it’s the same all over America.
All over America?
In every part?
It’ll be quiet anyway,
We won’t have so much useless chatter.
Oh, I wouldn’t bet on that,
We might come down the
 chimney to fill your stocking when you’re least expecting us, Sheila.
Oh, God,
they take in every oul’ fella off the street. You’d
 never know what they’d have.
I heard about it all right,
They put funny hats on the
 down and outs and give them bottles of stout.
You’re a saint, Eilis,
A living saint.
I wonder would you count the silverware to make sure we have enough?
Otherwise, we’ll have to go out into the highways and byways.
How many are you expecting?
Two hundred last year. They cross the bridges, some of them come down
 from Queens and in from Long Island.
And are they all Irish?
Yes, they are all leftover Irishmen, they built the tunnels and the bridges
 and the highways. Some of them I only see once a year. God knows what
 they live on.
Why don’t they go back home?
Some of them are here fifty years and they’ve lost touch with everyone,
One year I got home addresses for some of them, the ones
 I thought needed help most, and I wrote to Ireland for them. Mostly, I got
 silence, but for one poor old divil I got a stinker of a letter from his sister-in
law saying that the farm, or the homestead, or whatever it was, wasn’t his,
 and he wasn’t to think of ever setting foot in it. She’d scatter him at the gate.
 I remember that. That’s what she said.
It’s like the war,
Feeding the army. Has to be done
 like clockwork. I’ll carve what our own small needs will be from the turkey,
 the biggest one I could get, it’ll be six hours in the oven, before I send it off.
 And we’ll eat, just the four of us, myself, Miss McAdam, Miss Heffernan and
 Miss Keegan here, as soon as the turkey is off our hands. And if there’s
 anything left over, we’ll save it for you, Eilis.
They are the Miss Murphys from Arklow,
Though we won’t
 hold that against them.
It’ll be just the three of us,
here all day. The other
 helpers will come and go.
We’re the ones with no homes to go to,
Now, we’ll feed them in sets of twenty,
Each of us prepares sixty-five dinners, it might even be more, in three
 sittings. I’m in Father Flood’s own kitchen and the two of you are here in the
 hall. As soon as a turkey arrives, or when the ones we have cooking upstairs
 are ready, Father Flood will attack them and the hams and carve them. The
 oven here is just for keeping things hot. For an hour people will bring us
 turkeys and hams and roast potatoes and the thing is to have vegetables
 cooked and hot and ready to be served.
Rough and ready might be a better way of putting it,
But we have plenty of soup and stout for them while they’re waiting.
 They’re very nice, all of them.
They don’t mind waiting, and if they do, they don’t say.
Are they all men?
A few couples come because she is too old to cook, or they’re too lonely,
 or whatever, but the rest are men,
And they love the
 company and it’s Irish food, you know, proper stuffing and roast potatoes and
 Brussels sprouts boiled to death.
There’s plenty of food now, so don’t worry,
but
 no more than three potatoes a head and go easy on the stuffing.
This was the miracle of the turkey and the ham,
Brooklyn-style,
I’m glad it’s trifle now,
and not plum pudding and we don’t
 have to worry about keeping it hot.
Wouldn’t you think they’d take off their caps when they are eating?
Don’t they know they’re in America?
We have no rules here,
And they can smoke and
drink all they like. If we can get them all home safely, that’s the main thing.
 We always have a few a bit too under the weather to go home.
Too drunk,
Ah, on Christmas Day we call it under the weather, and I have a rake of
 beds made up for them in my own house,
What we’ll do now is have our own dinner,
And I’ll
 set the table and I’ve kept a nice dinner for each of us hot and everything.
Well, I was wondering if we were going to eat at all,
Poor Eilis. She’s starving. Will you look at her?
Should we not serve the trifle first?
No, we’ll wait,
It’ll stretch the day out.
I don’t want to interrupt the proceedings,
but we’d like to thank
 a nice girl from Enniscorthy and two nice women from Arklow for their hard
 day’s work.
And, as a way of thanking them, there’s one great singer in this hall and
 we’re delighted to see him this year again.
That man,
has made LPs.
Má bhíonn tú
 liom, a stóirín mo chroí
Now,
Not a word that
 you ever even came in here? Promise?
The truth is that Miss Keegan is departing and the sooner the better as far
 as I’m concerned. I have her sworn not to say a word to anyone. She’s very
 West of Ireland and they’re better at saying nothing than we are. So it suits
 her because she doesn’t have to say any farewells. She’ll be gone on Monday
 and I want you to move into her room in the basement. It’s not damp now so
don’t look at me like that.
I’m not looking at you,
Well, don’t.
It’s the best room in the house, the biggest, the warmest, the quietest and
 the best-appointed. And I don’t want any discussion about it. You are getting
 it and that’s that. So if you pack your things on Sunday, on Monday when
 you’re at work I’ll have them moved down, and that’ll be the end of it. You’ll
 need a key for down below because you have your own entrance, which you
 share with Miss Montini, but of course even if you lose the key, there’s still
 the stairs between the basement and this floor so don’t look so worried.
Will the others not mind that I’m getting the room?
They will,
Don’t make a sound,
If any of them ask you, just say that your own room is being decorated,
The bathroom is at the end of the corridor,
And say nothing to anyone,
You can never go wrong if you
 follow that policy to the letter.
The room is lovely,
And you can light a fire,
But Miss Keegan only ever
 did on Sundays because it eats wood. I don’t know why.
Will the others not be raging?
It’s my house so they can rage all they like, the more the merrier.
But—
You are the only one of them with any manners.
When will the others know that I am here for good?
In their own good time. It’s none of their business anyway.
I hope they won’t blame me.
Pay no attention to any of them. I don’t think either of us needs to lose a
 night’s sleep over them.
It’s always better to be honest,
I mean with
 everybody,
When you’ve gone through the world like I have,
you’ll find that that only works some of the time.
The bathroom as I said is down the corridor,
And I’m
 leaving the key here.
I suppose you heard what happened,
You had better sit down.
Do you know why Miss Keegan left?
Why should I know?
So you don’t know? I thought so. Well, that Kehoe woman knows and all
 the others know.
Where has Miss Keegan gone? Was she in trouble?
To Long Island. And for good reasons.
What happened?
She was followed home.
Followed?
Not one night but two, or maybe more for all I know.
You mean followed to this house?
That’s exactly what I mean.
Who followed her?
A man.
But sure if a man ran off with Miss Keegan, he’d drop her the minute he
 got to the first lamp-post and he could see her clearly.
But it wasn’t an ordinary man.
What do you mean?
The last time he followed her he exposed himself to her. He was that sort
 of man.
Who told you this?
Miss Keegan spoke to Miss Heffernan and myself privately before she
 left. She was followed to the very door of this house. And as she walked
 down the steps, the man exposed himself.
Did she call the police?
She certainly did, and then she packed her bags. She thinks she knows
 where the man lives. And he followed her before.
Did she tell the police all of this?
Yes, but there is nothing they can do unless she is ready to identify him
 and she isn’t ready to do that. So she packed her bags. And she’s moved in
 with her brother and his wife in Long Island. And then, to make matters
 worse, the Kehoe woman wanted to move me down to Miss Keegan’s room.
 She went on about it being the best room in the house. I put her in her place.
 And Miss Heffernan is in a terrible state. And Diana has refused to stay in the
 basement on her own. So she put you down there because none of the others
 would go.
It’s a lovely room,
Lovely it may be,
And you know we all wanted
 that room when Miss Keegan got it, all the better to stop that Kehoe woman
 snooping around you every time you came in the door. But I wouldn’t want
 to be down there now with the light on for all to see. Maybe I shouldn’t say
 any more.
Say what you like.
Well, for someone who walks home alone at night, you seem very calm.
If anyone exposes himself to me, you’ll be the first to know.
If I am still here,
It might be Long Island for us
 all.
I hope Father Flood knows what he’s doing,
They ran
 a dance in that selfsame parish hall after the war and they had to close it
 because of immorality. Some of the Italians started to come looking for Irish
 girls.
Well, I don’t see what’s wrong with that,
My father is
 Italian and I think he met my mother at a dance.
I’m sure he is very nice,
but after the war some of the
 Italians were very forward.
They’re lovely-looking,
Be that as it may,
and I’m sure some of them are
 lovely and all, but from what I heard great care should be taken with many of
 them. But that’s enough about Italians. It might be better for us all if we
 changed the subject.
I hope there’s not going to be Irish dancing,
Pat Sullivan’s band are lovely,
They can do
 everything from Irish tunes to waltzes and foxtrots and American tunes.
That’s good for them,
as long as I can sit it out for the céilí
 stuff. God, it should be abolished. In this day and age!
If you’re not lucky,
you’ll be sitting down all
 night, unless of course it’s ladies’ choice.
That’s enough about the dance,
I shouldn’t have come
 into the kitchen at all. Just be careful. That’s all I have to say. You have your
 whole life ahead of you.
One of the things I don’t miss about Ireland is the cattle mart on a Friday
 and Saturday night, and I’d be happy to stay single rather than have half
drunk fellows with terrible hair oil pushing me around.
Where I’m from,
we didn’t go out at all and none
 of us were any the worse for it.
And how did you meet fellows?
Will you look at her?
She’s never met a fellow in her
 life.
Well, when I do,
it will not be in a saloon bar.
We’re expecting a crowd,
But they never come when you want
 them.
Oh, we know where they are,
Getting Dutch
 courage.
Ah, well, it’s Friday night, I suppose.
I hope they won’t be drunk,
Oh, we have good men on the door. And we hope it will be a good night.
If you opened a bar you’d make a fortune,
Don’t think I haven’t thought of it,
They probably found a better dance somewhere else,
It would be too much to expect for them to support their own parish,
And I heard that some dances on the Manhattan side of the bridge can be
 very dangerous,
You know, the sooner this is over and I am at home in my own warm bed
 the happier I’ll be,
That Diana should be ashamed of herself,
God
 only knows what time she’ll come in at.
Is that her boyfriend?
Who knows?
She has a different one for every
 day of the week and two on Sundays.
He looks lovely,
He was a great dancer.
There is going to be a big change in the store,
because there is
 a change going on outside the store. Coloured people are moving into
 Brooklyn, more and more of them.
We’re going to welcome coloured women into our store as shoppers. And
 we’re starting with nylon stockings. This is going to be the first store on this
 street to sell Red Fox stockings at cheap prices and soon we’re going to add
 Sepia and Coffee.
These are colours,
Coloured women want Red Fox stockings and we are selling them and
 you two are going to be polite to anyone who comes into this store, coloured
 or white.
Both of them are always very polite,
but I’ll be
 watching once the first notice goes in the window.
We may lose customers,
but we’re going to
 sell to anyone who will buy and at the best prices.
But the Red Fox stockings will be apart, away from the other normal
 stockings,
At least at first. And you two will be at that
 counter, Miss Lacey and Miss Delano, and your job is to pretend that it’s no
 big deal.
The sign is going in the window this morning,
And you stand there and smile. Is that agreed?
You probably won’t be busy today,
but we’re going
 to hand leaflets out in the right places and by the end of the week you won’t
 have a moment if we’re lucky.
Why did they choose us?
They must think we are nice,
You’re Irish, that makes you different.
And what about you?
I’m from Brooklyn.
Well, maybe you are nice.
Maybe I’m just easy to kick around. Wait until my dad hears about this.
Is there a book I could buy that would help me with this part of the
 course?
Your lectures are interesting,
but I’m worried about the
 exam.
You like them?
Yes,
Are you British?
No, Irish.
All the way from Ireland.
I wondered if you could recommend another textbook or a manual that I
 can study for the exams.
You look worried.
I don’t know if the notes I’m taking or the books I have are enough.
You want to read more?
I would like to have a book that I could study.
There are some good books on basic corporate law.
Do you think I am going too fast?
No. I’m just not sure my notes will be enough for the exam.
Are you the only Irish student here?
I think so.
There’s a special law book store on West Twenty-third Street,
In Manhattan. You’ll have to go there to get these.
And will they be the right books for the exam?
Sure. If you know the rudiments of corporate law and tort, then you will
 get through.
Is that book store open every day?
I think so. You’ll have to go and check it out, but I think so.
But you can follow the lectures?
Of course,
Yes, of course.
Thank you,
It’s wonderful over there,
Fifth Avenue is the most heavenly place,
I’d give anything
 to live there. I’d love to marry a rich man with a mansion on Fifth Avenue.
Or even a poor man,
as long as he had a mansion.
Chilblains, now,
you’d want to be very careful with the
 chilblains. When I was your age they were the death of me.
I’d say in that store,
you could get all sorts
 of germs.
You can get germs in offices as well,
But you’d never know who’d—
That’s enough now, Miss McAdam,
And maybe it’s
 best early bed for all of us in this cold weather.
I was just going to say that I heard there are coloured women going into
 Bartocci’s,
I heard that too,
Well, we mightn’t like them but the Negro men fought in the overseas
 war, didn’t they?
And they were killed just the same as
 our men. I always say that. No one minded them when they needed them.
But I wouldn’t like—
We know what you wouldn’t like,
I wouldn’t like to have to serve them in a store,
God, I wouldn’t either,
And is it their money you wouldn’t like?
They’re very nice,
And some of them have beautiful
 clothes.
So it’s true, then?
I thought it was a joke. Well,
 that’s it, then. I’ll pass Bartocci’s, all right, but it’ll be on the other side of the
 street.
I’ll tell Mr. Bartocci that. He’ll be very upset,
 Sheila. You and your friend here are famous for your style, especially for the
 ladders in your stockings and the fussy old cardigans you wear.
That’s enough from the whole lot of you,
I intend to
 eat the rest of my dinner in peace.
Is this your handwriting?
No, it’s my lecturer’s. He recommended these books.
Are you a law student?
Not really. But it’s part of the course.
What’s your lecturer’s name?
Mr. Rosenblum.
Joshua Rosenblum?
I don’t know his first name.
What are you studying?
I’m doing a night course at Brooklyn College.
That’s Joshua Rosenblum. I’d know his writing.
He’s clever,
Yes, he’s very good,
Can you imagine…,
You want these books, then?
Yes, I do.
Joshua Rosenblum?
Can you imagine a country that
 would want to kill him?
Well, can you?
What do you mean?
The Germans killed everyone belonging to him, murdered every one of
 them, but we got him out, at least we did that, we got Joshua Rosenblum
 out.
You mean in the war?
Can you imagine a country that would do that? It
 should be wiped off the face of the earth.
In the war?
In the holocaust, in the churben.
But was it in the war?
It was, it was in the war,
jurisprudence
We need to talk to you,
What’s up now?
It’s that Dolores one,
She’s a scrubber.
She cleans houses,
And she’s cleaning for the
 Kehoe woman here to pay part of her rent. And we don’t want her at the
 table.
She’s awful. She’s
 the limit.
What do you want me to do?
Refuse to eat with her when the rest of us do. And the Kehoe woman
 listens to you,
And where will she eat?
Out in the street for all I care,
We don’t want her, none of us,
If word got around—
That this was a house where people like her were staying—
We’re just letting you know,
She’s a scrubber from Cavan,
I don’t know what you’re laughing at,
Oh, God, I’m sorry. It’s just awful. No decent fellow will have anything
 to do with us.
I was wondering if you would do me a special favour,
Of course I would, Mrs. Kehoe,
Would you take Dolores to the dance in the hall tonight? She’s dying to
 go.
All right.
Well, that’s great news. I’ll tell her to be ready,
I’m not sure how long I’ll be staying,
That’s no problem,
No problem at all. She won’t want
 to stay that long either.
Are there great fellas at this?
I have no idea,
I go only because it is organized by
 Father Flood.
Oh, God, does he hang around all night? It’ll be just like home.
God, there’s no one here at all,
I’d love a fella, would you?
I wonder
 what the American fellas are like.
I’d say they’re different,
They’re awful bitches, those other ones,
That’s what
 the boss-woman said. Bitches. The only one of them is not a bitch is you.
It’s so good to see you,
I think I know what you mean,
I don’t know what you looked like sitting there,
but you sure
 didn’t look happy.
Now, you look like a ballet dancer,
No, I don’t,
Well, at least you don’t look like you’ve just come in from milking the
 cows any more.
Did I look like that?
Just a bit. Nice clean cows,
Are you with that guy who was teaching you the steps?
No,
So, can I dance with you?
I’m not sure I know the steps.
No one does. The trick is to look as though you do.
Are you from County Clare?
No.
I saw you the first week but you didn’t stay until the end so you missed
 the free-for-all and you weren’t here last week.
How do you know?
I looked for you and didn’t see you.
The
 Siege of Ennis
There’s something you’ve got to know,
I’m not Irish.
You don’t sound Irish,
I mean I’m not Irish at all.
None of you?
Not a single bit.
So where are you from?
I’m from Brooklyn,
but my mom and dad are from Italy.
And what were you doing—
I know,
I heard about the Irish dance and I thought I’d
 go and look at it and I liked it.
Do the Italians not have dances?
I knew you were going to ask me that.
I’m sure they’re wonderful.
I could take you some night but you would have to be warned. They
 behave like Italians all night.
Is that good or bad?
I don’t know, but bad because if I had gone to an Italian dance I wouldn’t
 be walking you home now.
Can I collect you next week? Maybe get something to eat first?
There’s a lot of giddiness in the house at the moment,
That Diana has a terrible voice, God help her. If she squeals once more, I’ll
 have to get the doctor or the vet to give her something to calm her down.
It’s the dancing is doing it to them,
Well, I’m going to ask Father Flood to preach a sermon on the evils of
 giddiness,
And maybe he might mention a few more
 things in his sermon.
That’s what she called it,
My profession.
Is she your mom?
I told you that my mom, as you call her, is in Ireland.
So you did, but that woman looked like she owned you.
She’s my landlady.
She’s a lady all right. A lady with loads of questions to ask.
And, incidentally, what is your full name?
You want what I told your mom?
She’s not my mom.
You want my real name?
Yes, I want your real name.
My real full name is Antonio Giuseppe Fiorello.
What name did you give my landlady when she asked you?
I told her my name is Tony McGrath. Because there’s a guy at work
 called Billo McGrath.
Oh, for God’s sake. And what did you tell her your profession was?
My real one?
If you don’t answer me properly—
I told her I’m a plumber and that’s because I am.
Tony?
Yeah?
In future, if I ever allow you to call again, you will come quietly to the
 basement door.
And say nothing to no one?
Correct.
Suits me.
And my mom made me promise not to laugh too much, or make jokes,
She said Irish girls aren’t like Italian girls. They’re serious.
You told your mom you were meeting me?
No, but my brother guessed that I was meeting a girl and he told her. I
 think they all guessed. I think I was smiling too much. And I had to tell them
 it was an Irish girl in case they thought it was some family they knew.
I hope that dancehall is not going to be inundated with Italians now,
What do you mean?
Now they realize what is to be had.
And what is to be had?
That’s all they have to do, it seems.
I don’t have to say the rest.
I think we have to be very careful about men we don’t know coming into
 the hall,
Maybe if we got rid of some of the wallflowers, Sheila,
with
 the sour look on their faces.
Diana, if I hear you squeal again,
I will call the Fire Brigade to
 douse you with water. Did someone say something rude to Miss Heffernan?
We were giving Eilis here advice, that’s all,
Just to
 beware of strangers.
Well, I thought he was very nice, her caller,
With nice
 old-fashioned Irish manners. And we will have no further comment about
 him in this house. Do you hear, Miss McAdam?
I was only saying—
You were only refusing to mind your own business, Miss McAdam. It’s a
 trait I notice in people from Northern Ireland.
I’ll have no more talk about men at this table,
except
 to say to you, Diana, that the man that gets you will be nicely hoped up with
 you. The hard knocks that life gives you will put a sorry end to that smirk on
 your face.
Why didn’t you tell me about the college?
You didn’t ask.
I don’t have anything more to tell you.
No secrets?
I could make up some, but they wouldn’t sound true.
Mrs. Kehoe believes that you’re Irish. And you could be a native of
 Tipperary for all I know and just be putting on the rest. How come I met you
 at an Irish dance?
Okay. I do have a secret.
I knew it. You come from Bray.
What? Where’s that?
What’s your secret?
You want to know why I came to an Irish dance?
All right. I’ll ask you: why did you come to an Irish dance?
Because I like Irish girls.
Would any one do?
No, I like you.
Yes, but if I wasn’t there? Would you just pick another?
No, if you weren’t there, I would walk home all sad looking at the
 ground.
Don’t I make you feel happy?
Yes, you do,
They are real mean. They’re stingy as hell, those Irish,
Yes, Giovanni did that with me too, but the only time he spoke to me at
 the game was to demand that I go and get him and his friends some hot dogs.
 He nearly bit off my nose when I asked him if they wanted mustard on them.
 I was disturbing his concentration.
Hold on. He doesn’t take you drinking with his friends and leave you with
 all the girls?
No.
He doesn’t talk about himself all the time when he’s not telling you how
 great his mother is?
No.
Then you hold on to him, honey. There aren’t two of him. Maybe in
 Ireland, but not here.
So what’s the worst thing about him?
I wish he was two inches taller.
Anything else?
No.
You know what I really want?
I want our kids to be Dodgers
 fans.
delighted.
There’s something I
 need to say to you.
I know that.
You remember when you told me that you loved me?
Well, I didn’t really know what to say. So maybe I should say that I have
 thought about you and I like you, I like seeing you, I care for you and maybe
 I love you too. And the next time if you tell me you love me, I’ll—
You’ll what?
I’ll say I love you too.
Are you sure?
Yes.
Holy shit! Sorry for my language but I thought you were telling me that
 you didn’t want to see me again.
You don’t look as though you mean it,
I mean it.
Well, why aren’t you smiling?
Can I go home now?
No. I want to just jump up and down. Can I do that?
Quietly,
Let’s get this straight,
You
 love me?
Yes. But don’t ask me anything else and don’t mention wanting kids who
 are Dodgers fans.
What? You want kids who support the Yankees? Or the Giants?
Tony?
What?
Don’t push me.
I’ve got to warn you about something,
I have a kid brother
 called Frank. He’s eight going on eighteen. He’s nice and he’s smart but he’s
 been talking of all the things he’s going to say to my girlfriend when he
 meets her. He’s got a real big mouth. I tried to pay him money to go and play
 ball with his friends and my dad has threatened him but he says none of us
 are going to stop him. Once he gets it off his chest, you’ll like him.
What will he say?
The thing is we don’t know. He could say anything.
He sounds very exciting,
Oh, yeah, and there’s one more thing.
Don’t tell me. You have an old granny who sits in the corner and she
 wants to talk too.
No, she’s in Italy. The thing is that all of them are Italians and they look
 like Italians. They are real dark, all except me.
And how did they get you?
My mom’s dad was like me, at least that’s the rumour, but I never saw
 him and my dad never saw him and my mom doesn’t remember him because
 he was killed in the First World War.
Does your dad think…
It drives my mom crazy but he doesn’t really think it, he just says it
 sometimes when I do something funny that I must be from some other
 family. It’s a joke.
Frank, if you don’t stop talking you won’t be fed,
We don’t like Irish people,
Frank!
Mom, we don’t. We’ve got to be clear about it. A big gang of them beat
up Maurizio and he had to have stitches. And the cops were all Irish too, so
 they did nothing about it.
Francesco, shut your mouth,
Ask him,
They weren’t all Irish,
They had red hair and big legs,
Don’t mind him,
Only some of them had.
Antonio, you are wanted. Number eighteen has a blocked drain.
Dad, it’s dinnertime,
It’s Mrs. Bruno. We like her,
I don’t like her,
Francesco, shut your mouth,
Take your overalls and your tools,
I won’t be long,
and if he says anything at all, report
 him to me.
Tony is the street plumber,
But Frankie here is the brains of the family. He’s going to college.
Only if he learns to keep his mouth shut,
Those Irish guys who beat Maurizio up,
they moved out to Long Island.
I’m glad to hear that,
And out there, they have these big houses and you have your own room
 and you don’t get to sleep in the same room as your brothers.
Would you not like that?
No,
or maybe just sometimes.
I thought it would just take him a second,
It must have
 been serious. It’s hard to say no to people.
Has he taken you to Coney Island yet?
No,
He took his last girlfriend there and they went on the big wheel and she
 puked hot dogs all over herself and she blamed him and wouldn’t go out with
 him again. He didn’t speak for a month.
Is that right?
Francesco, get up and go out,
Or go and do homework.
 What was he saying?
He was telling me that Coney Island is nice in the summer,
He’s right. It is,
Has Tony not brought you?
No.
I hope he will,
You’ll like it.
I’m a saint,
I don’t think you’ve been watching your figure,
Yes, I know,
And I have no bathing costume.
Italian men!
They don’t care in the winter but in the
 summer on the beach you have to look your best. My guy won’t go on the
 beach unless he already has a tan.
In Ireland no one looks,
It would be bad manners.
In Italy it would be bad manners not to look.
My, you are going to have to work on your figure,
I think the black might be too severe,
If your skin was not so
 white, it might be fine. Now try this.
You’ll have to shave down here,
Otherwise, you’ll spend your
 time on the beach pulling the elastic down. Do you have a good razor?
Just for my legs,
Well, I’ll get you one that will do the trick down here too.
I don’t think these straps are right,
Is this one not all right?
No, try the others,
Come here and try this one.
Quickly now,
Maybe I should go behind the curtain,
If one of the security
 men comes in.
Now try the other,
You are marvellous,
That is all I have to say.
Most people who come to this house without notice need something or
 have a problem,
You hardly ever get pure good news.
I have saved some money,
and will be able to pay my tuition
 the second year and then pay you back for last year when I get a job.
One of my parishioners paid,
He needed to do
 something for mankind so I made him pay your tuition for last year and I’ll
 remind him soon that he needs to cough up for this year. I told him it’s a
 good cause and it makes him feel noble.
Did you tell him it was for me?
No. I gave him no details.
Will you thank him for me?
Sure. How’s Tony?
He’s great,
Has he taken you to a game yet?
No, but he threatens to all the time. I asked him if Wexford were playing
 but he didn’t get the joke.
Eilis, here’s one piece of advice for you,
Never make jokes about the game.
That’s what Tony said too.
He’s a solid man,
Champagne?
Sea water,
And then a slap-up dinner in Nathan’s
 afterwards.
I read somewhere,
that they could ruin your eyes.
Oh, I don’t care,
I think they’re gorgeous.
And I read,
that if you don’t have them this year on the
 beach people will talk about you.
Well, they are very glamorous, I’ll say that,
I’ll sell you that pair,
because I can get another pair
 on Sunday.
Can you really?
You’re lucky, Eilis, to have the figure for it,
I can’t go out in the sun at all,
I get all red.
I’ll have to tie a rope around you,
All the guys at the beach will
 want to run away with you.
How long is it going to take?
An hour, maybe more, it depends on how many stops it makes. But cheer
 up, think of the big waves.
Hold on,
You play baseball in Ireland?
No, it was hurling.
So it wasn’t baseball?
It’s the Jackie Robinson song,
They’re playing ‘Did You See Jackie
 Robinson Hit That Ball?’
Mom told us we weren’t to leave you at the edge,
It was stolen from us the last time, that’s all I have to say,
It was a very bitter moment.
If we lose this game Tony will go crazy,
And if we win
 he’ll go even more crazy and Frankie with him.
So which would be better,
win or lose?
Win,
Keep our seats,
Yeah, keep our seats,
They’re all against us,
I wonder if you could come to the office for a moment,
What is it about?
I can’t tell you,
It’s just best if you follow me.
I’m sorry,
but you will have to tell me what this is about.
I can’t tell you,
Can you give me some idea?
It’s something in your family.
Something or someone?
Someone.
Which of them?
Eilis,
Eilis.
Yes. What is it?
It’s Rose.
What happened to her?
Your mother found her dead this morning.
She must have died in her sleep,
Died in her sleep?
Yes,
It was sudden. She was out playing golf yesterday and in
 the best of form. She died in her sleep, Eilis.
And my mother found her?
Yes.
Do the others know?
Yes, and they’re heading home on the mail-boat. She’s being waked
tonight.
I’ve arranged for your mother to come up to the Manse in Enniscorthy
 tonight and we’ll call her from the presbytery here.
Was it one of the priests who contacted you?
Father Quaid,
Are they sure?
I mean, it all happened today?
This morning in Ireland.
I can’t believe it,
No warning.
I spoke to Franco Bartocci by telephone earlier and he said to take you
 home, and I spoke to Mrs. Kehoe and if you give me Tony’s address I will
 send him word as well and let him know.
What will happen?
The funeral will be the day after tomorrow,
Why did I ever come over here?
Why did I ever come over here?
Rose wanted a better life for you,
She only did what was
 good.
I won’t ever see her again now.
She loved how well you were doing.
I’ll never see her again. Isn’t that right?
It’s very sad, Eilis. But she’s in heaven now. That’s what we should think
 about. And she’ll be watching over you. And we’ll all have to pray for your
 mother and for Rose’s soul, and you know, Eilis, we have to remember that
 God’s ways are not our ways.
I wish I had never come over here.
I wish I had never come
 over here.
I have the car parked outside and we can go to the presbytery. You know
 it will do you good to have a talk with your mother.
I haven’t heard her voice since I left,
It’s just been letters. It’s
 awful that this is the first time I am going to phone her.
I know that, Eilis, and she’ll feel that too. Father Quaid said that he would
 collect her and drive her up to the Manse. I’d guess she’s in shock.
What will I say to her?
Can you hear me now?
Yes, Mammy, I can. It’s much better now.
It’s like she’s asleep and it was the same this morning,
I went in to call her and she was fast asleep and I said I’d leave her. But I
 knew as I went down the stairs. It wasn’t like her to sleep in like that. I
 looked at the clock in the kitchen and said I’d give her ten minutes more and
 then when I went up and touched her she was stone cold.
Oh, God, that’s terrible.
I whispered an act of contrition into her ear. Then I ran next door.
She died in the night in her sleep,
That’s what Dr. Cudigan said. She had been seeing the doctor without
 telling anyone and she went for tests without telling anyone. Rose knew, Eily,
 she knew that it could happen any time because of her heart. She had a bad
 heart, Dr. Cudigan said, and there was nothing could be done. She went on as
 normal. She knew that she had a bad heart and she decided to carry on
 playing golf and doing everything. The doctor said that he told her to take it
 easy, but, even if she had, it might have been the same. I don’t know what to
 think, Eily. Maybe she was very brave.
She told no one?
No one, Eily, no one at all. And she looks very peaceful now. I looked at
 her before I came out and I thought for a second she was still with us, she’s
 so like herself. But she’s gone, Eily. Rose has gone and that is the last thing
 in the world I thought was going to happen.
Who’s in the house now?
The neighbours are all there and your uncle Michael and they came down
 from Clonegal, all the Doyles, and they’re there too. And I said when your
 daddy died that I shouldn’t cry too much because I had you and Rose and the
 boys and when the boys left I said the same and when you left I had Rose, but
 I have no one at all now, Eily, I have no one.
Tomorrow I’ll say goodbye to her for you,
That’s what I thought I’d do. I’ll say goodbye to her
 from me and then I’ll say goodbye to her from you. And she’s with your
 father in heaven now. We’ll bury her beside him. I often thought at night how
 lonely he might be on his own in the graveyard but he’ll have Rose now.
 They’re up in heaven, the two of them.
They are, Mammy.
I don’t know why she was taken away so young, that’s all I have to say.
It’s a terrible shock,
She was cold this morning when I touched her, as cold as anything.
She must have died peacefully,
I wish she had told me, or let me know something was wrong. She didn’t
 want to worry me. That’s what Father Quaid and the others said. Maybe I
 couldn’t have done much but I would have watched out for her. I don’t know
 what to think.
I’ll go back now and we’ll say the rosary and I’ll tell her I was talking to
 you.
I’d love if you would do that.
Goodbye now, Eily.
Goodbye, Mammy, and will you tell the lads I was on the phone to you?
I will. They’ll arrive in the morning.
Goodbye, Mammy.
Goodbye, Eily.
I’m sorry,
Don’t worry at all,
Your poor mother, that’s all I have to say, your poor mother,
The poor thing, she’s in shock,
When everyone gets one, I’ll get one,
I’m sorry I can’t talk,
I’ve been thinking about it,
If one of my brothers had died,
 maybe that sounds selfish, but I was trying to imagine what you’re feeling.
I think about it,
and I can’t bear it and then I forget about it
 for a minute and when it comes back it’s as though I just heard the news. I
 can’t get over it.
I wish I could stay with you,
I’ll see you in the morning, and tell your mother not to come if it’s any
 trouble.
She’ll be there. Nothing is any trouble now,
I wish this hadn’t happened,
I keep wishing it hadn’t
 happened.
I think that too,
If only she’d let one of us know. Or if only
 nothing had happened and she was well at home. I wish I had a photograph of
 her so I could show you how beautiful she was.
You are beautiful,
She was the most beautiful, everyone said that, and I can’t get used to the
 idea of where she is now. I’ll have to stop thinking about her dying and her
 coffin and all that and maybe start praying, but it’s hard.
I’ll help you if you like,
Your brother must be a very nice man,
I wish…
I don’t
 mean I wish, but it would have been right if you and me had been there at the
 funeral, if I could have been there with you.
I know,
And soon your mother will write,
and you must come to my
 house before you even open her letter.
Is this where you live?
Yes, and if you make one sound, I’ll be evicted,
I thought you would go up into my neck.
I wish I could,
No, you don’t wish you could.
Hey, that hurt,
Is that better?
Hey, that’s beautiful,
Can you do that more?
What’s biting her?
I think I know,
but as God is my witness I
 heard nothing.
Heard what?
Nothing,
But it sounded lovely.
I couldn’t go to Father Flood,
or any priest who might
 recognize me. I know it shouldn’t matter, but I couldn’t.
Some of them don’t understand a word you’re saying if you speak in
 English,
That’s not a real confession, then.
But I think they recognize some key words.
Don’t make jokes. You are going to confession too.
I know that,
And will you promise me something?
Will you promise to be kind to me after the confession? I mean
 to hold my hand and talk to me and smile?
And will you promise me to make a good confession?
Yes, I will,
and my mom wants you to come to lunch on
 Sunday. She’s worried about you.
Make sure he understands what you say,
Was this the first time?
Yes, Father.
Do you love one another?
Yes, Father.
What will you do if you are pregnant?
He will want to marry me, Father.
Do you want to marry him?
I would like to marry him,
but I am not ready to
 marry him now.
But you say you love him?
He is a good man.
Is that enough?
I love him.
But you are not sure?
Are you sorry for what you did with him?
Yes, Father.
For your penance I want you to say just one Hail Mary, but say it slowly
 and think about the words, and you must promise to come back in one month.
 If you are pregnant, we will have to talk again, and we will help you in every
 way we can.
I’m going to keep the basement locked in future,
You wouldn’t know who would be
 going down there.
You are very wise,
I hope I am not disturbing you now, Father,
Oh, no, not at all. I was just reading the paper.
I don’t know if you’ve heard from my mother but I have had letters and
 she seems not to be well at all.
I’m sorry to hear that,
You know I did think it must
 be hard for her.
As you know, I hope to get my exams next month and this would mean
 that I would be a qualified bookkeeper. I have some money saved and I
 thought I might go home, just to see my mother, for as long as Bartocci’s
 would let me have unpaid leave. Also, like many of the other lodgers, I have
 been having difficulty with Mrs. Kehoe and when I come back from Ireland I
 might consider changing my lodgings.
She’s very nice, Mrs. Kehoe,
There aren’t many Irish
places like that now. In the old days there used to be more.
So you want me to talk to Bartocci?
How long would you like
 to go for?
A month,
And you would come back and work on the shop floor until a job in the
 office came up?
Yes.
Would you like me to talk to Mrs. Kehoe as well?
I thought you already had.
Not since Rose died,
I’m not sure I have seen her
 since then.
Would you not make it up with her?
How would I do that?
She’s very fond of you.
I’ll tell you what,
I’ll square Bartocci if you make it
 up with Ma Kehoe.
How would I do that?
Be nice to her.
Would you feel safe if I took the lock off the basement gate?
I didn’t know what to do so I asked that nice Sergeant Mulhall
 whose wife plays poker with me and he said that he would have his officers
 keep a special watch on it and report on any untoward activity down there.
Oh, that’s a great idea, Mrs. Kehoe,
You should thank him
 on behalf of all of us the next time you see him.
Marry me before you go back,
What did you say?
If you go, you won’t come back.
I’m just going for a month, I told you.
Marry me before you go back.
You don’t trust me to come back.
I read the letter your brother wrote. I know how hard it would be for you
 to go home and then leave again. I know it would be hard for me. I know
 what a good person you are. I would live in fear of getting a letter from you
 explaining that your mother could not be left alone.
I promise you I will come back.
marry me
I don’t mean in a church and I don’t mean we live together as man and
 wife and we don’t have to tell anybody. It can be just between the two of us
 and we can get married in a church when we decide after you come back.
Can you get married just like that?
Sure you can. You have to give them notice and I’ll get a list of things we
 need to do.
Why do you want me to do it?
It will just be something between us.
But why do you want it?
Because if we don’t do it,
 I’m going to go crazy.
And we’ll tell no one?
No one. We’ll take a half-day off work, that’s all.
And will I wear a ring?
You can if you want, but if you don’t that’s fine. All this could, if you
 wanted, be just something private between the two of us.
Would a promise not be the same?
If you can promise, then you can easily do this,
When we’re all in Long Island,
and when you have your house
 there, will you make them build me a room so I can come and stay with you
 when they’re all making me miserable?
Of course, Frank. And you will be able to come any time you like.
That’s all I wanted to say.
Grow up, Frank,
Grow up, Frank,
Yeah, Frank,
See?
That is
 what I have to tolerate.
Don’t worry,
I’ll deal with them.
I have money saved,
so we could get an apartment and then
 move to the house when it’s ready.
I don’t mind,
I wish we were going home together now.
So do I,
And the ring looks great on your finger.
I’d better remember to take it off before Mrs. Kehoe sees it.
Will we ever tell our children that we did this?
When we are old maybe and have run out of other stories,
Or maybe we’ll save it up for some anniversary.
I wonder what they’ll think of it.
The movie I’m taking you to is called The Belle of New York. They’ll
 believe that bit. But the idea that, when the movie was over, we took the
 subway home and I dropped you off at Mrs. Kehoe’s. They won’t believe
 that.
I had the windows cleaned and the curtains washed and I dusted the room
 myself and swept it out, but other than that it’s exactly the same,
And some day now,
we can go through the clothes.
 Rose had just bought a new winter coat and we’ll see if it suits you. She had
 lovely things.
You know, I sometimes think she’s still alive,
If I hear
 the slightest sound upstairs, I often think it must be Rose.
I have arranged a wreath to be made specially for you to leave on her
 grave and we can go out in a few days if the weather keeps up and then we
 can let them know it’s time to put Rose’s name and her dates below your
 father’s.
I am married.
Now the whole town has been asking for you,
God,
 even Nelly Kelly was asking for you. I saw her standing at the door of the
 shop and she let a big roar at me. And all your friends want you to call round,
 but I told them that it would be better to wait until you are settled.
God, is she still going?
I arranged for the wreath to be delivered tomorrow,
so
 that’s our day for the graveyard.
Yes, well, I’ll see Annette and Nancy tomorrow evening, then,
You know, they called around asking when you were coming back. I put
 them off, but if you want to see them, then you should invite them here.
Maybe I’ll do that now,
If I leave a note for Nancy, then she
 can get in touch with Annette. Is Nancy still going out with George? She said
 they were getting engaged.
I’ll let her give you all the news,
George would be a great catch,
And he’s good-looking as
 well.
Oh, I don’t know,
They could make a slave out of her
 in that shop. And that old Mrs. Sheridan is very noble. I wouldn’t have any
 time for her at all.
So, Rose,
here’s Eilis, she’s home now and
 we’ve brought fresh flowers out to you.
I’m praying for you, Rose, and thinking about you,
and
 I hope you’re praying for me.
She’s praying for all of us,
Rose is up in heaven
 praying for all of us.
But it’s great you’ll be here for the wedding. Your mother is delighted.
When is the wedding?
On Saturday, the twenty-seventh of June.
But I’ll be gone back,
Your mother said you’ll still be here. She wrote and accepted the
 invitation on behalf of the two of you.
There you are now,
It’s lovely to see you both, a bit of life in
 the house again. Poor Eilis was fed up with her old mother. And we’re
 looking forward to the wedding, Nancy. We’ll have to get the best of style for
 it. That’s what Rose would want.
You’ll have to come now.
Or maybe you have someone waiting impatiently for you in New York?
Such as Mrs. Kehoe, my landlady,
She only got off with Jim Farrell as a dare,
He was being as
 rude to her as he was to you that night, do you remember how rude he was?
 And we all bet money that she wouldn’t get off with him. And then she did.
 But she couldn’t bear him in the end, she said he was a terrible pain in the
 neck, even though George says he’s really a nice fellow if you get to know
 him, and George was in school with him.
George is very charitable,
I won’t have much room in my suitcase,
and the coat is
 lovely but the colour is too dark for me.
What we’ll do is we’ll take the frocks and the coat to the dressmaker’s in
 the morning and they’ll look different when they are the proper size, when
 they match your new American figure.
Most of this is rubbish, Mammy,
It’ll be best just to keep the
 photographs and throw the rest away.
Oh, I’ll need to look at all that, but come over here now and help me fold
 these scarves.
Do you want me to dump them, then?
There are a lot of people would love them.
But they are not good enough for you?
I have my own clothes.
Well, I’ll leave them in the wardrobe in case you change your mind. You
 could give them away and then find someone you didn’t know at mass on
 Sunday wearing them. That’d be nice now.
All in all,
it was the
 saddest thing that has happened in the town for a long time.
It must be difficult being home,
Although it must be nice for
 your mother.
Well, here you are,
I’ll have to get you a
 key.
I hope I didn’t wake you.
No, when I saw you going off I thought to myself that you’d be back late,
 but it isn’t that late because there’s still a bit of light in the sky.
Now, tell me something,
did you have a great outing?
It was nice, Mammy, and we went to Wexford for our tea.
And I hope that Jim Farrell wasn’t too ignorant?
He was fine. Minding his manners.
Well, the big news is that Davis’s offices sent up for you and they have a
 crisis because all the lorry drivers have to be paid tomorrow and so do all the
men working in the mill and one girl is on her holidays and Alice Roche is
 sick and they were at their wits’ end when someone thought of you. And they
 want you to be there at half past nine in the morning, and I said you would
 be. It was better to say yes than no.
How did they know I was here?
Sure the whole town knows you’re here. So I’ll have your breakfast on
 the table at half past eight and you’d better wear sensible clothes. Nothing too
 American now.
This might be the only summer we’ll get, sir,
Best take full advantage of it so,
Where’s his son?
Eamon? He’s studying, I’d say. That’s what he usually does.
They’re like a pair of children sometimes,
If they had a ball, they’d
 spend an hour playing with it.
Whatever happened to Annette?
I knew you wouldn’t come on Thursday if I told you Jim was coming, and
 I knew you wouldn’t come with just me and George, so I told you Annette
 was coming; it was a white lie,
And whatever happened to Jim’s manners?
He’s only bad-mannered when he’s nervous,
He doesn’t
 mean it. He’s a big softie. Also, he likes you.
When did that start?
When he saw you at eleven o’clock mass with your mother last Sunday.
Will you do me a favour, Nancy?
What is it?
Will you run down to the sea and tell Jim to go and take a running jump at
 himself? Or, better still, go down and tell him that you know someone who
 lives beside a marl pond, and ask him why he doesn’t drop in sometime.
Have you everything ready for the wedding?
Everything except my future mother-in-law, who makes a new statement
 every day about something she wants or doesn’t want. My mother thinks
 she’s an awful old snob.
Well, she is, isn’t she?
I’ll knock that out of her,
but I’ll wait until after the
 wedding.
My father says that this part of the coast is being badly eroded,
We used to stay here years ago for a week or two in the hut that Michael
 Webster and Nora bought. I can’t remember who owned it when we rented it.
 You would notice the change every summer when you came down,
My father says that he remembers your father here years ago.
They all used to come on bicycles from the town.
Are there beaches near Brooklyn?
Oh, yes,
and in the summer they’re always crowded at the
 weekend.
I’d say you’d get every type of person there,
Every type,
Will we go and try the water?
Okay,
Quick wash, then,
It can’t be quick,
God, they’re not even married yet and
 they are bickering.
It’s for a good cause,
She’s right,
I’m sure you’re
 both right,
Mr. Brown wants to see you,
I’ll check if he has anyone
 with him now.
Miss Lacey,
I wrote to your mother when poor Rose died and we were very
 cut up and I wondered if I should have called as well. And I am told you are
 home from America and Maria tells me that you have a certificate in
 bookkeeping. Is it American bookkeeping?
I don’t suppose there is,
Anyway, Maria was very
 happy with how you did the wages last week, but we were not surprised, of
 course, you being Rose’s sister. Rose was the essence of efficiency and is
 much missed.
Rose was a great example to me,
Until the busy season is over,
it will be hard for us
 to know how we are fixed in the office, but we may certainly need a
 bookkeeper and someone familiar with how the wages are paid in the long
 term. But we would like you to continue with the wages on a part-time basis
 and then we can speak to you in a while.
I will be going back to the United States,
Well, yes, of course,
But you and I will speak again
 before you make any firm decisions.
Two years ago,
he wouldn’t even see me. I know that Rose
 asked him if there was any possibility of a job for me and he just said no. Just
 no.
Well, things have changed.
And two years ago Jim Farrell seemed to think it was his duty to ignore
 me in the Athenaeum even though George had practically asked him to dance
 with me.
You have changed,
You look different. Everything about
 you is different, not for those who know you, but for people in the town who
 only know you to see.
What’s changed?
You seem more grown up and serious. And in your American clothes you
 look different. You have an air about you. Jim can’t stop trying to get us to
 find more excuses to go out together.
You don’t notice it much from outside,
but it is one of the
 nicest houses in the town. The two rooms upstairs have double doors between
 them and I remember even years ago people used to comment on how large it
 was. And I hear that the parents are moving out to Glenbrien where she’s
 from, to a house that her aunt left her. The father loves horses, he’s a great
 man for the races, and he is going to have horses out there, or so I heard. And
 Jim is getting the whole place.
He’ll miss them so,
Because they run the pub when he wants
 to go out.
Oh, it’ll be all very gradual, I’d say,
I still have to phone the shipping company, but it will probably be the
 week after next.
You are going to be missed here,
It’s very hard leaving my mother on her own,
My parents are going to move out to the country soon. My mother’s
 people came from Glenbrien and her aunt left her a place out there and
 they’re doing work on it at the moment.
So I’ll be on my own in the house over the pub.
You must come for your tea some evening,
My parents would
 love to meet you.
Thank you,
We’ll arrange it after the wedding.
We won’t risk it,
I’d be afraid we’d get as far as the Market Square and then it would
 spill. I’d worry about the red running into that white blouse of yours.
Don’t worry about the time,
I’ll drop the two of you straight
 in front of the cathedral and then I’ll park. I think we have plenty of time.
I was going to offer you a cup of tea,
No time for that, though,
You know I think this is just a shower,
Jim is a perfect gentleman,
So, Jim,
I’m not the only one who says that the next outing
 we’ll all have will be your big day. Nancy will have plenty of advice to give
 you when she comes home, Eilis.
Little did we think,
that we’d have Nancy in
 Sheridan’s, and I hear the Farrells are moving out to Glenbrien, Eilis.
Jim and I promised my mother we’d make sure she knows where the car
 is,
Oh, Jim and I!
Do you
 hear her? Jim and I! Oh, it won’t be long now and we’ll all have a great day
 out and your mother’ll be delighted, Eilis. When she came down with the
 wedding present the other day she told us she’d be delighted and why
 wouldn’t she be delighted?
We have to go, Mrs. Byrne,
Can you excuse us?
Imagine having her as a mother-inlaw!
Can we go?
Yes,
my mother knows exactly where the lift to Enniscorthy
 is. There is no need for us to stay here any longer.
My mother asked me
 to let you know that the golf club is going to inaugurate a prize in memory of
 Rose. It will be given by the lady captain as a special trophy on Lady
 Captain’s Day for the best score by a lady newcomer to the club. Rose, she
 says, was always really nice to people who were new to the town.
Yes,
she was always good with new people, that’s true.
Well, they’re having a reception to announce the prize next week and my
 mother thought that you could come to tea with us and then we’d go out to
 the golf club for the reception.
That would be very nice,
Did you enjoy the wedding?
Yes, I did,
So did I,
It’s always funny for me seeing everyone’s brothers
 and sisters because I’m an only child. I think it must have been hard for you
 losing your sister. Today, watching George with his brothers and Nancy with
 her sisters made me feel strange.
Was it difficult being an only child?
It matters more now, I think,
when my parents are getting
 older and there’s just me. But maybe it mattered in other ways. I was never
 really good at getting on with people. I could talk to customers in the pub and
 all that, I knew how to do that. But I mean friends. I was never good at
 making friends. I always felt that people didn’t like me, or didn’t know what
 to make of me.
But surely you have a lot of friends.
Not really,
and then it was harder when they started having
 girlfriends. I always found it difficult to talk to girls. Do you remember that
 night when I met you first?
You mean in the Athenaeum.
Yes,
On the way into the hall that night Alison Prendergast,
 who I was sort of going out with, broke it off with me. I knew it was coming
 but she actually did it on the way into the dance. And then George, I knew,
 really fancied Nancy and she was there. So he could be with her. And then he
 brought you over and I had seen you in the town and I liked you and you
 were on your own and you were so nice and friendly. I thought—here we go
 again. If I ask her to dance I’ll be tongue-tied, but I still thought I should. I
 hated standing there on my own, but I couldn’t bring myself to ask you.
You should have,
And then when I heard you were gone I thought it was just my luck.
I remember you that night,
I had the impression you didn’t
 like us, both me and Nancy.
And then when I heard you were home,
and I saw you and you looked so fantastic and I was so down
 after the whole episode with Nancy’s sister, I thought that I’d do anything to
 meet you again.
Can we talk about what you are going to do?
Of course,
I mean if you have to go back, then maybe we could get engaged before
 you go.
Maybe we can talk about it soon,
I mean, if I lost you this time, well, I don’t know how to put it, but…
Is there something wrong?
Miss Kelly wants to see you,
She says I’m to make sure and bring you back with
 me now.
Now?
Now,
Mary,
we are going upstairs for a minute and if anyone is
looking for me, then tell them I’ll be down in my own good time.
Yes, miss.
Put those on the floor and sit down,
So how are you getting on?
Very well, thanks, Miss Kelly.
So I hear. And I was just thinking about you yesterday and wondering if I
 would ever see you because I heard from Madge Kehoe in America just
 yesterday.
Madge Kehoe?
She’d be Mrs. Kehoe to you but she’s a cousin of mine. She was, before
 she married, a Considine, and my mother, God rest her, was a Considine, and
 so we are first cousins.
She never mentioned that,
Oh, the Considines were always very close,
My
 mother was the same.
Is that right?
And of course she told me all about you when you arrived first. But then
 there was no news here and Madge has a policy that she only keeps in touch
 with you if you keep in touch with her. So what I do is I telephone her about
 twice a year. I never stay long on the line because of the cost. But it keeps her
 happy, especially if there is news. And then when you came home, well, that
 was news and I heard you were never out of Curracloe, and in Courtown with
 your finery, and then a little bird who happens to be a customer of mine told
 me that he took a photograph of you all in Cush Gap. He said you made a
 lovely group.
And so I telephoned Madge with all the news, and about you paying out
the wages down in Davis’s.
Did you, Miss Kelly?
And once she had news of her own, then she telephoned back,
So, now.
And what did she say, Miss Kelly?
Oh, I think you know what she said.
Was it interesting?
Oh, don’t try and fool me!
You can fool most people,
 but you can’t fool me.
I am sure I would not like to fool anyone,
Is that right, Miss Lacey? If that’s what your name is now.
What do you mean?
She told me the whole thing. The world, as the man says, is a very small
 place.
Is that all you have to say, Miss Kelly?
It is, but I’ll be phoning Madge again and I’ll tell her I met you. How is
 your mother?
She’s very well, Miss Kelly.
I saw you after that Byrne one’s wedding getting into the car with Jim
 Farrell. Your mother looked well. I hadn’t seen her for a while but I thought
 she looked well.
She’ll be glad to hear that,
Oh, now, I’m sure,
So is that all, Miss Kelly?
It is,
Except
 don’t forget your umbrella.
I thought after you had left that I should have gone with you. It’s a lonely
 old place, out there.
The graveyard?
Isn’t that where you were?
It is, Mammy.
Are you all right? Are you
 upset?
Mammy, there’s something I should have told you when I came back first
 but I have to tell you now. I got married in Brooklyn before I came home. I
 am married. I should have told you the minute I got back.
Is he American?
He is, Mammy. He’s from Brooklyn.
Eily, if you are married, you should be with your husband.
I know.
Is he nice, Eily?
He is,
If you married him, he’d have to be nice, that’s what I think,
I have to go back,
I have to go in the morning.
And you kept this from me all the time?
I am sorry, Mammy.
You didn’t have to marry him? You weren’t in trouble?
No.
And tell me something: if you hadn’t married him, would you still be
 going back?
I don’t know,
But you are getting the train in the morning?
I am, the train to Rosslare and then to Cork.
I’ll go down and get Joe Dempsey to collect you in the morning. I’ll ask
him to come at eight so you’ll be in plenty of time for the train.
And then I’m going to bed because I’m tired and so I won’t see you in the
 morning. So I’ll say goodbye now.
It’s still early,
I’d rather say goodbye now and only once.
Eily, you’re not to cry. If you made a decision to marry someone, then
 he’d have to be very nice and kind and very special. I’d say he’s all that, is
 he?
He is, Mammy.
Well, that’s a match, then, because you’re all of those things as well. And
 I’ll miss you. But he must be missing you too.
And you’ll write to me about him when you get back?
You’ll tell me all the news?
I’ll write to you about him as soon as I get back,
If I say any more, I’ll only cry. So I’ll go down to Dempsey’s and arrange
 the car for you,
She has gone back to Brooklyn,
