Later!
later
Is there an abandoned station house somewhere?
No, there was never a station
 house. The train simply stopped when you asked.
Later.
 Maybe.
Don’t tell me: wait for summer to come, right?
Actually, in the winter the place gets very gray and dark. We come for
 Christmas. Otherwise it’s a ghost town.
And what else do you do here at Christmas besides roast chestnuts and
 drink eggnog?
Later,
 maybe.
reading
catches,
routine
Later.
my table
Don’t
 bother explaining. Just play it again.
Just play it, will
 you?
The same one?
The same one.
You changed it. It’s not the same. What did you do to it?
I just played it the way Liszt would have played it had he jimmied
 around with it.
Just play it again, please!
I can’t believe you changed it again.
Well, not by much. This is just how Busoni would have played it if he
 had altered Liszt’s version.
Can’t you just play the Bach the way Bach wrote it?
But Bach never wrote it for guitar. He may not even have written it for
 the harpsichord. In fact, we’re not even sure it’s by Bach at all.
Forget I asked.
Okay, okay. No need to get so worked up,
This is the Bach as transcribed by me
 without Busoni and Liszt. It’s a very young Bach and it’s dedicated to his
 brother.
fire
nerve
 or something
It didn’t hurt,
Here, let me make it
 better.
Relax,
But I am relaxing.
You’re as stiff as this
 bench. Feel this,
It’s all
 knots.
Here,
Feel it? He should relax more,
You should relax more,
swoon.
yes,
no,
later.
maybe
yes,
no
fire
swoon,
Jews of discretion,
I can buy another one just like it.
play a few hands.
A very witty man—damn clever too.
Do you really think so,
 Pro?
Yes, I do,
Well, I’m
 not sure I agree at all. I find him arrogant, dull, flat-footed, and coarse. He
 uses humor and a lot of voice
and
 broad gestures to nudge his audience because he is totally incapable of
 arguing a case. The voice thing is so over the top, Pro. People laugh at his
 humor not because he is funny but because he telegraphs his desire to be
 funny. His humor is nothing more than a way of winning over people he
 can’t persuade.
 “If you look at him when you’re speaking, he always looks away, he’s
 not listening, he’s just itching to say things he’s rehearsed while you were
 speaking and wants to say before he forgets them.
How about catching a movie?
What’s wrong? You’re upset.
Want to go for a swim?
Later, maybe,
Let’s go now.
Must we?
I’ll meet
 you downstairs.
things
things
heaven,
This is heaven,
I’m going to heaven now,
to apricate.
How long were you in
 heaven this morning?
Two straight hours. But I
 plan to return early this afternoon for a much longer aprication.
Oliver, are you sleeping?
I was.
Sorry.
Oliver, are you sleeping?
No. Thinking.
About what?
About Heidegger’s interpretation of a fragment by Heraclitus.
Elio.
Yes?
What are you doing?
Reading.
No, you’re not.
Thinking, then.
About?
Private,
So you won’t tell me?
So I won’t tell you.
So he won’t tell me,
I’m not telling,
Then I’m going back to sleep,
This is heaven.
Listen to this,
Just listen to this drivel.
Does it make any sense to you? Not to me.
Maybe it did when you wrote it,
That’s the kindest thing anyone’s said to me in months
Kind?
Yes, kind.
I have.
I’m almost a decade older than you are and until a few days ago had
 never heard of any of them. I don’t get it.
What’s not to get? Dad’s a university professor. I grew up without TV.
 Get it now?
Go back to your plunking, will you!
You didn’t have to,
I wanted to.
friendship
Enough. We’re going to the beach and
 you’re coming.
Let me just put away these papers. Otherwise
 his father
will skin me alive.
Talking about skin, come here,
Tell his father that I crumpled his papers. See what he says then.
Do you type good too?
I type good,
As good as you speak good?
Bettah. And I’d’a gave you a bettah price too.
I need five pages translated per day, to be ready for pickup every
 morning.
Then I won’t do nu’in for you,
Find yuhsef
 somebuddy else.
Well, Signora Milani needs the money,
I’m okay with her,
I’m okay with her,
I’m okay with you, you’re
 okay with me, she’s okay with him—
Stop clowning and let’s go swimming,
Later, Mrs. P.
Okay, Oliver, later, okay,
See you later
Take care,
 now,
Ciao.
Just a sec
Just a sec.
É un timido, he’s shy, that’s why,
Lasci fare a
 me, Signor Ulliva, leave it to me,
I know myself. If I have three, I’ll have a fourth, and more.
Yours,
Your
 serve.
algebra,
alchemy,
alcohol
Ah?!
The word is actually not an Arabic word,
How so?
You don’t say,
It’s a long story, so bear with me, Pro.
Many Latin words are derived from the Greek. In the case of
 ‘apricot,’ however, it’s the other way around; the Greek takes over from
 Latin. The Latin word was praecoquum, from pre-coquere, pre-cook, to
 ripen early, as in ‘precocious,’ meaning premature.
 “The Byzantines borrowed praecox, and it became prekokkia or
 berikokki, which is finally how the Arabs must have inherited it as al
birquq.
Che muvi star!
He is right, there is no denying it,
Courtesy of Philology 101,
his
gentleness
generosity
patience
forbearance,
talk
Esco, I’m going
 out.
Are you trying to fix us up?
What’s it to you anyway?
Are you trying to make me like her?
What would the harm be in that?
No harm. Except I like to go it alone, if you don’t mind.
Look, it’s very nice of you—and I appreciate it. But don’t.
You’re a late riser these days.
C’è Oliver?
Well, I’m leaving, then. Tell him I came by.
She’s a
 baby, he’s a university professor. Couldn’t she have found someone her own
 age?
Nobody asked you anything,
Don’t you talk to me that way or I’ll split your face in two,
She’s not
 seventeen yet and she goes about having bare-breasted crushes. Thinks I
 haven’t seen anything?
The translator,
Traduttrice, my eye,
What are you doing here?
Hanging out.
Isn’t it past your bedtime?
My father doesn’t believe in bedtimes,
Never a bedtime in their house, no rules, no supervision, nothing.
 That’s why he’s such a well-behaved boy. Don’t you see? Nothing to rebel
 against.
Is that true?
I suppose,
We all have our ways of rebelling.
We do?
Name one,
You wouldn’t understand.
He reads Paul Celan,
E chi è?
A poet,
You’re not with me because you’re
 angry with Chiara?
Why am I angry with Chiara?
Because of him.
Just don’t tell anyone,
We almost did it,
And why didn’t you?
Dunno.
Better to have tried and failed…
All I had to do was find the
 courage to reach out and touch, she would have said yes,
Try again later,
If not later, when?
If not later, when?
If not now, when?
I’d definitely try
 again. And again after that,
What do you mean, wrong track?
I’m not interested.
Everyone is interested.
Well, maybe. But not me.
But I saw you two.
What you saw was not your business to see. Anyway, I’m not playing
 this game with either her or you.
Look, I’m sorry
Maybe you should try,
She wouldn’t want to have anything to do with me.
Would you want her to?
No?
no
Are you sure?
What would you know?
I know you like her.
You have no idea what I like,
No idea.
blue
red
How do you do
 this?
Sometimes the only way to understand an artist is to wear his shoes, to
 get inside him. Then everything else flows naturally.
What are you doing?
Working,
Me too,
You were talking, not working.
Same thing.
I wish I could work. But no one gives me any work.
Oliver, meet Vimini, literally our next-door neighbor.
Vimini and I have the same birthday, but she is ten years old. Vimini is
 also a genius. Isn’t it true you’re a genius, Vimini?
So they say. But it seems to me that I may not be.
Why is that?
It would be in rather bad taste for nature to have made me a genius.
Come again?
He doesn’t know, does he?
They say I may not live long.
Why do you say that?
How do you
 know?
Everyone knows. Because I have leukemia.
But you’re so beautiful, so healthy-looking, and so smart,
As I said, a bad joke.
Maybe you can come over one day and read to me,
I’m
 really very nice—and you look very nice too. Well, goodbye.
And sorry if I spooked you—well—
repeat
That man gives me the creeps,
That creep has a heart of gold,
Is it better to speak or die?
being
having
About the knight who doesn’t know whether to speak or die. You told
 me already.
Yes.
Well, does he or doesn’t he?
Better to speak, she said. But she’s on her guard. She senses a trap
 somewhere.
So does he speak?
No, he fudges.
Figures.
Listen, I need to pick up something in town.
I’ll go, if you want me to.
No, let’s go together.
Now?
Why, have you got anything better to do?
No.
So let’s go.
They’ll be
 mealy,
Listen. I do the tomatoes, you do the driving, and we’re all happy.
You don’t understand. In my day you moved the tomatoes at some
 point, from one place to another, from one place to the other
and you planted basil nearby. But of course you people who’ve been in
 the army know everything.
That’s right.
Of course I’m right. No wonder they didn’t keep you in the army.
That’s right. They didn’t keep me in the army.
I
 straightened the wheel last night, it took some doing. I also put some air in
 the tires.
From now on, I fix the wheels, you grow the tomatoes,
Doesn’t he give you the creeps?
Who?
Anchise.
No, why? I fell the other day on my way back and scraped myself
 pretty badly. Anchise insisted on applying some sort of witch’s brew. He
 also fixed the bike for me.
Still gives me the creeps,
Just a lost soul, really.
Not bad, right?
Not
 bad at all.
Just take a look at this,
You do
 know who is said to have drowned near here,
Shelley.
And do you know what his wife Mary and friends did when they found
 his body?
Cor cordium, heart of hearts,
Is there anything you don’t know?
I know nothing, Oliver. Nothing, just nothing.
You know more than anyone around here.
If you only knew how little I know about the things that really matter.
What things that matter?
You know what things. By now you of all people should know.
Why are you telling me all this?
Because I thought you should know.
Because you thought I should know.
Because I want you to know,
Because there is no one
 else I can say it to but you.
Do you know what you’re saying?
Yes, I know
 what I’m saying and you’re not mistaking any of it. I’m just not very good
 at speaking. But you’re welcome never to speak to me again.
Wait. Are you saying what I think you’re saying?
Ye-es.
Wait for me here, I have to run upstairs and get some papers. Don’t go
 away.
You know very well I’m not going anywhere.
That idiot Milani
 mixed the pages and has to retype the whole thing. So I have nothing to
 work on this afternoon, which sets me back a whole day.
Nature loves to hide
I went in search
 of myself.
I wish I hadn’t spoken,
I’m going to pretend you never did.
Does this mean we’re on speaking terms—but not really?
Look, we can’t talk about such things. We really can’t.
If you have time,
I have time.
This,
is
 the spot where Monet came to paint.
Now take a look,
This is my spot. All mine. I come here to read. I can’t tell you the
 number of books I’ve read here.
Do you like being alone?
No. No one likes being alone. But I’ve learned how to live with it.
Are you always so very wise?
I’m not wise at all. I told you, I know nothing. I know books, and I
 know how to string words together—it doesn’t mean I know how to speak
 about the things that matter most to me.
But you’re doing it now—in a way.
Yes, in a way—that’s how I always say things: in a way.
I like the way you say things. Why are you always putting yourself
 down?
I don’t know. So you won’t, I suppose.
Are you so scared of what others think?
You’re making things very difficult for me.
Why am I making things difficult?
Because it would be very wrong.
Would?
Yes, would. I’m not going to pretend this hasn’t crossed my mind.
I’d be the last to know.
Well, it has. There! What did you think was going on?
Going on?
Nothing.
Nothing,
nothing
Nothing.
I see,
You’ve got it wrong, my friend
If it makes you feel any better, I have to hold
 back. It’s time you learned too.
The best I can do is pretend I don’t care.
That much we’ve known for a while already,
So this is where Monet came to paint.
I’ll show you at home. We have a book with wonderful reproductions
 of the area around here.
Yes, you’ll have to show me.
You’re the luckiest kid in the world,
You don’t know the half of it.
So much of it is wrong, though.
What? Your family?
That too.
Living here all summer long, reading by yourself, meeting all those
 dinner drudges your father dredges up at every meal?
Us, you mean.
Let’s see, then—
Better now?
I think we should go.
Not yet.
We can’t do this—I know myself. So far we’ve behaved. We’ve been
 good. Neither of us has done anything to feel ashamed of. Let’s keep it that
 way. I want to be good.
Don’t be. I don’t care. Who is to know?
Did I offend you?
Just don’t.
I should make sure it doesn’t get infected,
We’ll stop by the pharmacist on the way back.
We’ll never speak again,
Don’t say that.
I just know it. We’ll chitchat. Chitchat, chitchat. That’s all. And the
 funny thing is, I can live with that.
You just rhymed,
swoon,
Ghiaccio,
ice, Mafalda, per favore, presto,
I was up at the hill this morning. Happens all the
 time,
Was it my fault?
I’m a mess, aren’t I?
Sit for a second.
Are you going to be okay?
I thought I was. I’ll get over it.
I’ll let you sleep now.
I’ll stick around,
Be good.
Oops, wrong address.
Get out, you sick, wretched, twisted piece of shit.
Faccio io,
No, no, faccio da me,
Is Oliver around?
Didn’t he go out?
I’ll stick around,
No, maybe I’ll go out.
But where will you go at this time?
Especially in the state you were in at lunch. Mi preoccupo, I worry.
I’ll be okay.
I’d advise against it.
Don’t worry.
Signora,
Then I’ll go for a swim.
We sick ones—,
Do you know where Oliver is?
I don’t know. I thought he went fishing with Anchise.
With Anchise? He’s crazy! He almost got killed the last time.
You like him, don’t you?
Yes,
He likes you too—more than you do, I think.
I think he is right,
Non mi va,
don’t feel like it.
E perché non ti va?
Perché non mi va!
Isn’t it too early for dinner?
It’s past eight.
Noi ci mettiamo a tavola, we’ll sit down,
Then it must be the translator. Who was it who told me he needed to
 see the translator this evening?
I pray to God you
 made a killing last night, otherwise I’ll have to answer to your father.
I never lose, Pro.
Does your father approve?
I pay my own way. I’ve paid my way since
 prep school. My father couldn’t possibly disapprove.
Did
 you have a lot to drink last night?
That—and other things.
I don’t think I want to know,
Neither does my father. And to be perfectly frank, I don’t think I care
 to remember myself.
Do you save your winnings?
Save and invest, Pro.
I wish I’d had your head at your age; I would have spared myself many
 mistaken turns,
You, mistaken turns, Pro? Frankly, I can’t picture you even imagining a
 mistaken turn.
That’s because you see me as a figure, not a human being. Worse yet:
 as an old figure. But there were. Mistaken turns, that is. Everyone goes
 through a period of traviamento—when we take, say, a different turn in life,
 the other via. Dante himself did. Some recover, some pretend to recover,
 some never come back, some chicken out before even starting, and some,
 for fear of taking any turns, find themselves leading the wrong life all life
 long.
Sometimes the traviamento turns out to be the right way, Pro. Or as
 good a way as any.
At your age I knew nothing. But
 today everyone knows everything, and everyone talks, talks, talks.
Perhaps what Oliver needs is sleep, sleep, sleep.
Tonight, I promise, Signora P., no poker, no drinking. I’ll put on clean
 clothes, go over my manuscript, and after dinner we’ll all watch TV and
 play canasta, like old folks in Little Italy.
 “But first,
I need to
 see Milani for a short while. But tonight, I promise, I’ll be the best-behaved
boy on the whole Riviera.
green
You’ve lost your mind,
seat
I waited for you the other night.
Why didn’t you come into town?
Dunno.
We had a nice time. You would have too. Did you rest at least?
In a way. Restless. But okay.
Are you headed into town this morning?
Later, maybe.
I was going to head into town myself.
I see.
A book I ordered has finally arrived. I’m to pick it up at the bookstore
 this morning.
What book?
Armance.
I’ll pick it up for you if you want.
It was just that I was hoping we’d go together.
You mean like the other day?
I don’t think we’ll ever do anything like that again.
But, yes, like that.
You’ll kill me if
 you stop.
That day belongs to a different time warp. We should learn to leave
 sleeping dogs—
This voice of wisdom is your most winning trait.
Do you like me that much, Elio?
Do I like you?
Do I like you, Oliver? I worship you.
To worship
I’ll go with you to B.,
But—no speeches.
No speeches, nothing, not a word.
What do you say we grab our bikes in half an hour?
I thought we weren’t going to mention—,
No speeches. I know.
I am glad, then. I just want to thank you for this morning.
I know. No speeches. Ever.
speeches,
You’ll kill me if you stop,
You’ll kill me if you stop.
You’ll
 kill me if you stop.
You’ll kill me if you
 stop
Kill me if I stop.
I’ll miss all this, Mrs.
 P.,
star
Why
 don’t you call Marzia? Are you avoiding her?
As if you aren’t!
I heard you were sick.
This is much, much better. It’s set in Sicily, not here, but it’s
 probably the best Italian novel written this century.
We’ve seen the
 movie,
Is it as good as Calvino, though?
Calvino is nothing in comparison—lint and tinsel. But I’m
 just a kid, and what do I know?
Is it
 good?
Pure junk,
I should know. I wrote it.
Would you inscribe a copy for me?
Con piacere,
I’m not sure this
 book is for you, but…
I don’t
 think it’s for you either, signorina, but…
Did it bother you?
Of course not,
Why did you buy me this book?
Perché mi andava, because I felt like it.
Yes, but why did you buy it for me—why buy me a book?
I don’t understand why you’re asking.
Any idiot would understand why I’m asking. But you don’t. Figures!
I still don’t follow.
You’re hopeless.
If you don’t tell me, I’ll imagine all sorts of things—and I’ll just feel
 terrible.
You’re an ass. Give me a cigarette.
Do you
 really like to read that much?
Don’t get me wrong,
I like to read too. But I don’t tell anyone.
I don’t
 know…
People who read are hiders. They hide who they are.
 People who hide don’t always like who they are.
Do you hide who you are?
Sometimes. Don’t you?
Do I? I suppose.
Do you hide from me?
No, not from you. Or maybe, yes, a bit.
Like what?
You know exactly like what.
Why do you say that?
Why? Because I think you can hurt me and I don’t want to be hurt.
Not that you mean to hurt anyone, but
 because you’re always changing your mind, always slipping, so no one
 knows where to find you. You scare me.
Kiss me again?
Sei duro, duro, you’re so hard.
Baciami ancora, kiss me
 again.
Ma tu mi vuoi veramente bene, do you really care for me?
to throw,
to ejaculate.
Insomma, so-so,
Must be tired, then,
Or was it poker that you were playing too?
I don’t play
 poker.
midnight
midnight
But we never asked you for anything,
You shouldn’t have drunk, then.
What about Marzia?
You’ll kill me if you stop
I’ll die if you stop.
I’m so glad you came,
I could hear you moving in your
 room and for a while I thought you were getting ready to go to bed and had
 changed your mind.
Me, change my mind? Of course I was coming.
Come in,
I didn’t know you smoked.
Sometimes.
I’m nervous.
Me too.
Me more than you.
Come, sit.
You okay?
Me okay.
What are you doing?
Nothing.
That’s a start,
Does this make you happy?
You sure you want this?
We haven’t talked,
Can I kiss you?
Off, and off, and off,
 and off,
I already told you, I’m okay.
Did I
 tell you I was okay too?
Yes.
Call
 me by your name and I’ll call you by mine,
Billowy,
You’re not happy,
You’re feeling sick about it, aren’t you?
I knew we shouldn’t have. I knew it,
We should have talked…
Maybe,
maybe
Did you hate it?
You can go to sleep, if you want,
You’re
 staring at me,
It Is Finished,
You okay?
Fine. Fine,
Are
 you okay everywhere?
I meant—
I know what you meant. Sore.
But did you mind when I—?
Do we need to speak about
 it?
Not if you don’t want to.
Are you going to hold last night against me?
No,
I don’t think I’ll be able to ride my bike
 today.
Because…
Yes, because.
Take your trunks off.
Sit down.
We’ll save it for later,
I had to see you,
Why, something wrong?
I just had to see you.
Aren’t
 you sick of me?
I just wanted to be with you,
If you want, I’ll go
 back now,
Do you have any idea how glad I am we slept together?
I don’t
 know.
It would be just like you not to know. I just don’t want to regret any of
 it—including what you wouldn’t let me talk about this morning. I just dread
 the thought of having messed you up. I don’t want either of us to have to
 pay one way or another.
I’m
 not telling anyone. There won’t be any trouble.
I didn’t mean that. I’m sure I’ll pay for it somehow, though.
For you,
 however you think of it, it’s still fun and games, which it should be. For me
 it’s something else which I haven’t figured out, and the fact that I can’t
 scares me.
Are you sorry I came?
I’d hold you and kiss you if I could.
Me too.
Fuck me, Elio.
We’ll save it for later.
Later!
Let me see.
Is this what I think it is?
Any idea how much work Anchise puts into each one of these?
I’m sick, aren’t I?
No, you’re not sick—I wish everyone were as sick as you. Want to see
 sick?
Just think of the number of people who’ve come before you—you,
 your grandfather, your great-great-grandfather, and all the skipped
 generations of Elios before you, and those from places far away, all
 squeezed into this trickle that makes you who you are. Now may I taste it?
Please don’t.
I never could stand my own. But this is yours. Please explain.
It makes me feel terrible.
Look, you don’t have to do this. I’m the one who came after you, I
 sought you out, everything that happened is because of me—you don’t have
 to do this.
Nonsense. I wanted you from day one. I just hid it better.
Sure!
You’re hurting me.
Then let go.
If you just want to spit it out, it’s okay, it’s really okay, I promise I
 won’t be offended,
Whatever happens between us, Elio, I just want you to know. Don’t
 ever say you didn’t know.
Kiss me now, before it’s totally gone,
Are you staying?
No, I’m going to see Marzia.
Leave him alone, you and your groups,
As it is, he’s shut up in the
 house all day. Let him do as he pleases. As he pleases!
I want to go to the bookstore again,
But I don’t like going to the movies with
 you.
You want to go around closing time tomorrow?
Why not?
I’ll see you at midnight.
Get lost
Grow up
Get lost
I was waiting for you,
I thought you’d gone to sleep. I even thought you didn’t want to.
No. Waiting. I just turned the lights off.
What were you doing?
Thinking.
About?
Things. Going back to the States. The courses I have to teach this fall.
 The book. You.
Me?
Me?
No one else?
No one else.
I come here every night and
 just sit here. Sometimes I spend hours.
All by yourself?
I never knew. I thought—
I know what you thought.
This spot is probably what I’ll miss the most.
I’ve been happy in B.
I was looking out towards there,
and thinking that in two weeks I’ll be back at Columbia.
All this means is that in ten days when I look out to this spot, you
 won’t be here. I don’t know what I’ll do then. At least you’ll be elsewhere,
 where there are no memories.
The way you think sometimes…
 You’ll be fine.
I might. But then I might not. We wasted so many days—so many
 weeks.
Wasted? I don’t know. Perhaps we just needed time to figure out if this
 is what we wanted.
Some of us made things purposely difficult.
Me?
You know what we were doing exactly one night ago.
I don’t know how I feel about that.
I’m not sure either. But I am glad we did.
Will you be okay?
I’ll be okay.
I do love being here with
 you.
How are you?
You should know.
Americans never know how to do it,
I am sure they have their way…,
He’s no fool,
Want me to come with?
No, better keep a low profile. You should work on your Haydn today.
 Later.
Later.
When did you know about me?
When you blushed,
Me?
To the Moon
Do you like Leopardi?
Yes, very much.
I like him very much too.
I knew I was making you uncomfortable, but I just had to make sure.
So you knew all this time?
Let’s say I was pretty sure.
Why didn’t you give me a sign?
I did. At least I tried.
When?
After tennis once. I touched you. Just as a way of showing I liked you.
 The way you reacted made me feel I’d almost molested you. I decided to
 keep my distance.
crime
two to three days
I must tell you about this bathing suit,
Tell me what?
I’ll tell you on the train.
Just promise to let me keep it after you’re
 gone.
That’s all?
Well, wear it a lot today—and don’t swim in it.
Sick and twisted.
Sick and twisted and very, very sad.
I’ve never seen you like this.
I want Billowy too. And the espadrilles. And the sunglasses. And you.
E non chiede manco scusa, doesn’t even say he’s sorry,
Inutile prendere tante scorciatoie, no need for so many shortcuts. We’re in
 no rush!
Come to the bookstore around eight-thirty. Bring your manuscript. There’s
 a party for one of our authors. Ti aspettiamo, we’re awaiting you.
Am I invited, though?
You are now,
Just for a second,
I wish you didn’t
 have to wash.
If we lie down now, there’ll be no book
 party,
You keep doing this, and there’s definitely no
 party.
Don’t flush,
I want to look.
Our bodies won’t have
 secrets now,
I want you to see mine,
there
Oliver, I’m happy,
You’re just horny.
No, happy.
Siete voi qui, ser Brunetto?
Ser Brunetto, are you here?
ciai messo l’acqua
e nun te pagamo.
You’ve added water, and we won’t pay.
Is there something I
 should know?
That’s not it at all, you goose.
Then what is it?
I don’t want anything to change or to come between us tonight.
Who’s the goose?
This is around where it started,
What?
It.
That’s why you wanted to come by here?
With you.
yes
no.
I turned down so many. Never went after anyone.
You went after me.
You let me.
Venga, su, venga!
I purchased it in the bookstore in B. a few weeks ago, and you were
 kind enough to sign it for me.
Un vero fan, a real fan, then,
Maybe not a fan—at his age they’re more
 likely to be called groupies,
Which poem did you like best?
Alfredo, you’re behaving like a teacher at an oral exam,
I just wanted to know which poem he liked best. There’s no harm in
 asking, is there?
So tell me,
which one.
The one comparing life to San Clemente.
The one comparing love to San Clemente,
‘The San Clemente
 Syndrome.’
And why?
My God, just leave the poor boy alone, will you? Here,
I’ll lead you to the food so that you can get away from this
 monster with an ego the size of his feet—have you seen how big his shoes
are? Alfredo, you should really do something about your shoes,
My shoes? What’s wrong with my shoes?
They. Are. Too. Big. Don’t they look huge?
Poets
 can’t have such big feet.
Leave my feet alone.
Don’t mock his feet, Lucia.
 There’s nothing wrong with his feet.
A pauper’s feet. Walked barefoot all his life, and still buys shoes a size
 bigger, in case he grows before next Christmas when the family stocks up
 for the holidays!
Se l’amore,
Oliver! Finally!
Welcome, welcome.
One of the youngest, most talented American philosophers,
accompanied by my lovely daughters, without whom Se l’amore would
 never have seen the light of day.
Such babes,
 aren’t they?
Manuscript?
Manuscript,
You gave me one already.
That’s right.
Oliver, sei un dissoluto, you’re
 debauched.
Se l’amore,
Se l’amore yourself.
Sei l’amico di Oliver, vero? You’re Oliver’s friend,
 right?
He spoke about you.
Saying?
Good things.
He’s never going to let go of my hand, is he?
Se l’amore,
No less dissolute than the other, just sweeter. I leave him to
 you.
We’ll see what we can do
 with him.
There’s a
 third one too,
She should
already be around here somewhere.
Because of his shoes,
There.
Get on with it, Alfredo,
Se l’amore. Se l’amore is a collection of poems based on a season in
 Thailand teaching Dante. As many of you know, I loved Thailand before
 going and hated it as soon as I arrived. Let me rephrase: I hated it once I
 was there and loved it as soon as I left.
In Bangkok I kept thinking of Rome—what else?—of this little
 roadside shop here, and of the surrounding streets just before sunset, and of
 the sound of church bells on Easter Sunday, and on rainy days, which last
 forever in Bangkok, I could almost cry. Lucia, Lucia, Lucia, why didn’t you
 ever say no when you knew how much I’d miss you on these days that
 made me feel more hollow than Ovid when they sent him to that
 misbegotten outpost where he died? I left a fool and came back no wiser.
 The people of Thailand are beautiful—so loneliness can be a cruel thing
 when you’ve had a bit to drink and are on the verge of touching the first
 stranger that comes your way—they’re all beautiful there, but you pay for a
 smile by the shot glass.
I
 called these poems ‘Tristia.’
Tristia
Stasera non dormo, tonight I won’t
 be able to sleep, the wages of poetry,
For the love of God, open the door,
We’re suffocating in here.
Better?
No. But at least we know the door is open.
Ecco.
For me?
Of course for you. Did you like the poems?
Very much,
I’m his godfather and I respect your opinion,
But I respect your youth
 more.
In a few years I promise you there won’t be much youth left,
Yes, but by then I won’t be around to notice.
So take it,
Tanto, one scotch more or
 less won’t make you any less dissolute than you already are.
I wish I were dissolute,
Why, what’s missing in your life?
What’s missing in my life?
Friends—the way everyone seems to be fast friends in
 this place—I wish I had friends like yours, like you.
There’ll be plenty of time for these friendships. Would friends save
 you from being dissoluto?
I wish I had one friend I wasn’t destined to lose.
You’re speaking volumes, my friend, and tonight we’re doing short
 poems only.
I feel for you.
You’re too young to know what I’m saying—but one day soon, I hope
 we’ll speak again, and then we’ll see if I’m big enough to take back the
 word I used tonight. Scherzavo, I was only joking.
Are we toasting or what?
And I’m Ada,
I was not going to read this poem tonight, but because
 someone
someone mentioned it, I could not
 resist. It’s entitled ‘The San Clemente Syndrome.’ It is, I must admit, i.e., if
 a versifier is allowed to say this about his own work, my favorite.
Because it was the most difficult, because it made me terribly, terribly
 homesick, because it saved me in Thailand, because it explained my entire
 life to me. I counted my days, my nights, with San Clemente in mind. The
idea of coming back to Rome without finishing this long poem scared me
 more than being stranded at Bangkok’s airport for another week. And yet, it
 was in Rome, where we live not two hundred meters away from the
 Basilica of San Clemente, that I put the finishing touches to a poem which,
 ironically enough, I had started eons ago in Bangkok precisely because
 Rome felt galaxies away.
This year, we’re in the red
 again.
Everyone is beautiful, but beautiful in an exceptionally hybrid, crossbred
 manner, which is why I wanted to go there,
They’re not
 Asiatic, not Caucasian, and Eurasian is too simple a term. They’re exotic in
 the purest sense of the word, and yet not alien. We instantly recognize them
 though we’ve never seen them before, and have no words either for what
 they stir in us or for what they seem to want from us.
 “At first I thought that they thought differently. Then I realized they felt
 things differently. Then that they were unspeakably sweet, sweet as you
 can’t imagine anyone being sweet here. Oh, we can be kind and we can be
 caring and we can be very, very warm in our sunny, passionate
 Mediterranean way, but they were sweet, selflessly sweet, sweet in their
 hearts, sweet in their bodies, sweet without a touch of sorrow or malice,
 sweet like children, without irony or shame. I was ashamed of what I felt
 for them. This could be paradise, just as I’d fantasized. The twenty-four
year-old night clerk of my rinky-dink hotel, who’s wearing a visorless cap
 and has seen all types come and go, stares and I stare back. His features are
 a girl’s. But he looks like a girl who looks like a boy. The girl at the
 American Express desk stares and I stare back. She looks like a boy who
 looks like a girl and who’s therefore just a boy. The younger ones, men and
 women, always giggle when I give them the look. Even the girl at the
 consulate who speaks fluent Milanese, and the undergraduates who wait at
 the same hour of each and every morning for the same bus to pick us up,
 stare at me and I stare back—does all this staring add up to what I think it
means, because, like it or not, when it comes to the senses all humans speak
 the same beastly tongue.
I wanted to sleep with all of Thailand. And all of Thailand, it turns out,
 was flirting with me. You couldn’t take a step without almost lurching into
 someone.
Here, take a sip of this grappa and tell me it’s not the work of a witch,
I like grappa at night, it
 reinvigorates me. But you
wouldn’t
 understand. At your age, God knows, invigoration is the last thing you
 need.
Do you feel it?
Feel what?
The invigoration.
Not really.
Not really,
That’s because, at his age, it’s already there, the invigoration,
True,
your ‘invigoration’ works only on those who no
 longer have it.
Invigoration is not hard to come by in Bangkok. One warm
 night in my hotel room I thought I would go out of my mind. It was either
 loneliness, or the sounds of people outside, or the work of the devil. But this
 is when I began to think of San Clemente. It came to me like an undefined,
 nebulous feeling, part arousal, part homesickness, part metaphor. You travel
 to a place because you have this picture of it and you want to couple with
 the whole country. Then you find that you and its natives haven’t a thing in
 common. You don’t understand the basic signals which you’d always
 assumed all humanity shared. You decide it was all a mistake, that it was all
 in your head. Then you dig a bit deeper and you find that, despite your
 reasonable suspicions, you still desire them all, but you don’t know what it
 is exactly you want from them, or what they seem to want from you,
 because they too, it turns out, are all looking at you with what could only be
one thing on their mind. But you tell yourself you’re imagining things. And
 you’re ready to pack up and go back to Rome because all of these touch
and-go signals are driving you mad. But then something suddenly clicks,
 like a secret underground passageway, and you realize that, just like you,
 they are desperate and aching for you as well. And the worst thing is that,
 with all your experience and your sense of irony and your ability to
 overcome shyness wherever it threatens to crop up, you feel totally
 stranded. I didn’t know their language, didn’t know the language of their
 hearts, didn’t even know my own. I saw veils everywhere: what I wanted,
 what I didn’t know I wanted, what I didn’t want to know I wanted, what I’d
 always known I wanted. This is either a miracle. Or it is hell.
 “Like every experience that marks us for a lifetime, I found myself
 turned inside out, drawn and quartered. This was the sum of everything I’d
 been in my life—and more: who I am when I sing and stir-fry vegetables
 for my family and friends on Sunday afternoons; who I am when I wake up
 on freezing nights and want nothing more than to throw on a sweater, rush
 to my desk, and write about the person I know no one knows I am; who I
 am when I crave to be naked with another naked body, or when I crave to
 be alone in the world; who I am when every part of me seems miles and
 centuries apart and each swears it bears my name.
 “I called it the San Clemente Syndrome. Today’s Basilica of San
 Clemente is built on the site of what once was a refuge for persecuted
 Christians. The home of the Roman consul Titus Flavius Clemens, it was
 burnt down during Emperor Nero’s reign. Next to its charred remains, in
 what must have been a large, cavernous vault, the Romans built an
 underground pagan temple dedicated to Mithras, God of the Morning, Light
 of the World, over whose temple the early Christians built another church,
 dedicated—coincidentally or not, this is a matter to be further excavated—
 to another Clement, Pope St. Clement, on top of which came yet another
 church that burnt down and on the site of which stands today’s basilica.
 And the digging could go on and on. Like the subconscious, like love, like
 memory, like time itself, like every single one of us, the church is built on
 the ruins of subsequent restorations, there is no rock bottom, there is no first
 anything, no last anything, just layers and secret passageways and
 interlocking chambers, like the Christian Catacombs, and right along these,
 even a Jewish Catacomb.
“But, as Nietzsche says, my friends, I have given you the moral before
 the tale.
Alfredo, my love, please, make it brief.
So on that warm night when I thought I was losing my mind, I’m
 sitting in the rinky-dink bar of my rinky-dink hotel, and who should be
 seated at the table right next to mine but our night clerk, wearing that
 strange visorless cap. Off duty? I ask. Off duty, he replies. Why don’t you
 head home, then? I live here. Just having a drink before turning in.
 “I stare at him. And he stares at me.
 “Without letting another moment go by, he picks up his drink with one
 hand, the decanter with the other—I thought I’d intruded and offended him
 and that he wanted to be alone and was moving to a table farther away from
 mine—when lo and behold, he comes right to my table and sits right in
 front of me. Want to try some of this? he asks. Sure, why not, I think, when
 in Rome, when in Thailand…Of course, I’ve heard all manner of stories, so
 I figure there’s something fishy and unsavory in all this, but let’s play along.
 “He snaps his fingers and peremptorily orders a tiny cup for me. No
 sooner said than done.
 “Have a sip.
 “I may not like it, I say.
 “Have one anyway. He pours some for me and some for him.
 “The brew is quite delicious. The glass is scarcely bigger than my
 grandmother’s thimble, with which she used to darn socks.
 “Have another sip—just to make sure.
 “I down this one as well. No question about it. It’s a little like grappa,
 only stronger but less tart.
 “Meanwhile, the night clerk keeps staring at me. I don’t like being
 stared at so intensely. His glance is almost unbearable. I can almost detect
 the beginnings of a giggle.
 “You’re staring at me, I finally say.
 “I know.
 “Why are you staring?
 “He leans over to my side of the table: Because I like you.
“Look—, I begin.
 “Have another. Pours himself one, one for me.
 “Let me put it this way: I’m not—
 “But he won’t let me finish.
 “All the more reason why you should have another.
 “My mind is flashing red signals all over the place. They get you drunk,
 they take you somewhere, they rob you clean, and when you complain to
 the police, who are no less corrupt than the thieves themselves, they make
 all manner of allegations about you, and have pictures to prove it. Another
 worry sweeps over me: the bill from the bar could turn out to be
 astronomical while the one doing the ordering downs dyed tea and pretends
 to get drunk. Oldest trick in the book—what am I, born yesterday?
 “I don’t think I’m really interested. Please, let’s just—
 “Have another.
 “Smiles.
 “I’m about to repeat my tired protestation, but I can already hear him
 say, Have another. I’m almost on the point of laughing.
 “He sees my laugh, doesn’t care where it’s coming from, all he cares is
 I’m smiling.
 “Now he’s pouring himself one.
 “Look, amigo, I hope you don’t think I’m paying for these drinks.
 “Little bourgeois me has finally spoken out. I know all about these
 mincing niceties that always, always end up taking advantage of foreigners.
 “I didn’t ask you to pay for the drinks. Or, for that matter, to pay me.
 “Ironically, he is not offended. He must have known this was coming.
 Must have done it a million times—comes with the job, probably.
 “Here, have another—in the name of friendship.
 “Friendship?
 “You have nothing to fear from me.
 “I’m not sleeping with you.
 “Maybe you won’t. Maybe you will. The night is young. And I haven’t
 given up.
 “At which point he removes his cap and lets down so much hair that I
 couldn’t understand how such a huge tumble could have been wrapped and
 tucked under so small a bonnet. He was a woman.
 “Disappointed?
“No, on the contrary.
 “The tiny wrists, the bashful air, the softest skin under the sun,
 tenderness that seemed to spill out of her eyes, not with the smirking
 boldness of those who’ve been around but with the most heartrending
 promises of utter sweetness and chastity in bed. Was I disappointed?
 Perhaps—because the sting of the situation had been dispelled.
 “Out came a hand that touched my cheek and stayed there, as if to
 soothe away the shock and surprise. Better now?
 “I nodded.
 “You need another.
 “And you do too, I said, pouring her a drink this time.
 “I asked her why she purposely misled people into thinking she was a
 man. I was expecting, It’s safer for business—or something a bit more
 rakish, like: For moments such as these.
 “Then came the giggle, this time for real, as if she had committed a
 naughty prank but was not in the least bit displeased or surprised by the
 result. But I am a man, she said.
 “She was nodding away at my disbelief, as if the nod itself were part of
 the same prank.
 “You’re a man? I asked, no less disappointed than when I discovered
 she was a woman.
 “I’m afraid so.
 “With both elbows on the table he leaned forward and almost touched
 my nose with the tip of his and said: I like you very, very much, Signor
 Alfredo. And you like me too, very, very much—and the beautiful thing is
 we both know it.
 “I stared at him, at her, who knows. Let’s have another, I said.
 “I was going to suggest it, said my impish friend.
 “Do you want me man or woman? she/he asked, as if one could scale
 one’s way back up our phylogenetic tree.
 “I didn’t know what answer to give. I wanted to say, I want you as
 intermezzo. So I said, I want you as both, or as in between.
 “He seemed taken aback.
 “Naughty, naughty, he said, as though for the first time that night I’d
 actually managed to shock him with something thoroughly debauched.
“When he stood up to go to the bathroom, I noticed she was indeed a
 woman wearing a dress and high-heeled shoes. I couldn’t help staring at the
 most lovely skin on her most lovely ankles.
 “She knew she had caught me yet once more and started to giggle in
 earnest.
 “Will you watch my purse? she asked. She must have sensed that if she
 hadn’t asked me to watch something of hers, I would probably have paid
 the bill and left the bar.
 “This, in a nutshell, is what I call the San Clemente Syndrome.
Evviva il sindromo di San Clemente,
Sindromo is not masculine, it’s feminine, la sindrome,
Evviva la sindrome di San Clemente,
I think that all this clementizing,
is quite charming, though
 I’ve no idea how your metaphor will help us see who we are, what we want,
 where we’re headed, any more than the wine we’ve been drinking. But if
 the job of poetry, like that of wine, is to help us see double, then I propose
 another toast until we’ve drunk enough to see the world with four eyes—
 and, if we’re not careful, with eight.
Evviva!
Evviva!
Better write another book of poems—and soon,
No, we can’t say goodbye yet.
What a
 metaphor for life!
Please! No need to
 overdo things either with clementification this and clementization that. It
 was just a figure of speech, you know,
We close at two.
Well, we still
 have time for drinks.
Me too,
martini,
Ehi! Taverniere!
Well, what if I make the drinks and you charge us your price
 on account of because we can mix the drinks we are mixing?
Why not?
If you know how to
 make them, faccia pure, go right ahead.
Olives,
Maybe I could entice you to accept a martini from us,
This has
 been a crazy evening. A drink could not possibly make it any crazier. Make
 it a small one.
Want me to teach you?
Where did you learn this?
Mixology 101. Courtesy Harvard. Weekends, I made a living as a
 bartender all through college. Then I became a chef, then a caterer. But
 always a poker player.
Did I shock you?
Me?
Alfredo, I’m afraid he knows more than you know
 about corrupting youth. E un dissoluto assoluto,
This poem is about one thing and one thing only,
San Clemente is really about four—at the very least!
Listen,
why
 don’t you let us stay? We’ll put the young lady in a cab when we’re done.
 And we’ll pay. Another round of martinis?
Do as you please,
I’m going home.
What would you like?
Anything.
What is it, doesn’t he feel well?
No, just needs some air. Please don’t move.
Can we walk a bit?
Water,
I’m not made for martinis. I’m so drunk.
You shouldn’t have had any. You had scotch, then wine, grappa, now
 gin.
So much for the evening’s sexual buildup.
You look pale.
I think I’m going to be sick.
Best remedy is to make it happen.
How?
Bend down and stick your finger all the way inside your mouth.
Do it inside here.
Here, bend down, I’ll hold your head.
It will pass. I’m sure it will.
Open your mouth.
I think I’m done,
Let’s see if more doesn’t come out.
Don’t you chew your peas?
I just hope I didn’t get your shoes dirty,
They’re not shoes, they’re sandals.
I swear, there were peas there that hadn’t even been bitten into and
 could have fed the children of India.
I’m picking up my things tonight and good night and good
 riddance.
Good riddance to you too, and vaffanculo.
Fanculo yourself,
 e poi t’inculo.
Aiiiio,
The most
 beautiful day of my life and I end up vomiting.
Fenesta ca lucive.
Tomorrow let’s go to San Clemente,
Tomorrow is today,
Triste,
Yes, a bit.
Anche a me duole, I too am saddened.
Dinners?
And with whom?
People.
What people?
Writers, publishers, friends
 of Oliver’s. We stayed up every night.
Not even eighteen years old, and
 already he leads la dolce vita,
We’ve fixed up your room the way it was. We thought you’d like
 finally to have it back.
How come you’re going for a swim?
I don’t know. I just felt like it. Want to come?
Not today. They’re forcing me to wear this ridiculous hat if I want to
 stay outside. I look like a Mexican bandit.
Pancho Vimini. What will you do if I go swimming?
I’ll watch. Unless you can help me get onto one of those rocks, then
 I’ll sit there, wet my feet, and keep my hat on.
Let’s go, then.
Just don’t walk too fast,
Am I glad I’m back,
Did you have a good time in Rome?
We missed you.
We who?
Me. Marzia. She came looking for you the other day.
Ah,
I told her where you went.
Ah,
I think she knows you
 don’t like her very much.
And?
And nothing. I just felt sorry for her. I said you’d left in a great rush.
Did she believe you?
I think so. It wasn’t exactly a lie, you know.
What do you mean?
Well, you both left without saying goodbye.
You’re right, we did. We didn’t mean anything by it.
Oh, with you, I don’t mind. But him I do. Very much.
Why?
Why, Elio? You must forgive me for saying so, but you’ve never been
 very intelligent.
I may never see him again either,
No, you still might. But I don’t know about me.
Allora ciao, Oliver, e a presto,
Dunque, ti passo Elio—vi lascio.
What do you think?
Tell me about Rome,
So?
Eat well too?
And drank well too?
Done things your grandfather would have approved of?
What an
 idea, to vomit in front of the talking statue!
 “Movies? Concerts?
Seen any of the inner, private courtyards I told you about?
Paid my respects to Giordano Bruno’s statue?
You two had a nice friendship.
Yes,
yes
You’re too smart not to know how rare, how special, what you two had
 was.
Oliver was Oliver,
Parce que c’était lui, parce que c’était moi,
he’s more
 myself than I am.
Oliver may be very intelligent—,
Intelligent? He was more than intelligent. What you two had had
 everything and nothing to do with intelligence. He was good, and you were
 both lucky to have found each other, because you too are good.
I think he was better than me, Papa.
I am sure he’d say the same about you, which flatters the two of you.
What lies ahead is going to be very difficult,
Fear not. It will come. At least I hope it does. And when you least
 expect it. Nature has cunning ways of finding our weakest spot. Just
 remember: I am here. Right now you may not want to feel anything.
 Perhaps you never wished to feel anything. And perhaps it’s not with me
 that you’ll want to speak about these things. But feel something you did.
Look,
You had a beautiful friendship. Maybe more
 than a friendship. And I envy you. In my place, most parents would hope
 the whole thing goes away, or pray that their sons land on their feet soon
 enough. But I am not such a parent. In your place, if there is pain, nurse it,
 and if there is a flame, don’t snuff it out, don’t be brutal with it. Withdrawal
 can be a terrible thing when it keeps us awake at night, and watching others
 forget us sooner than we’d want to be forgotten is no better. We rip out so
 much of ourselves to be cured of things faster than we should that we go
 bankrupt by the age of thirty and have less to offer each time we start with
 someone new. But to feel nothing so as not to feel anything—what a
 waste!
Have I spoken out of turn?
Then let me say one more thing. It will clear the air. I may have come
 close, but I never had what you had. Something always held me back or
 stood in the way. How you live your life is your business. But remember,
 our hearts and our bodies are given to us only once. Most of us can’t help
 but live as though we’ve got two lives to live, one is the mockup, the other
the finished version, and then there are all those versions in between. But
 there’s only one, and before you know it, your heart is worn out, and, as for
 your body, there comes a point when no one looks at it, much less wants to
 come near it. Right now there’s sorrow. I don’t envy the pain. But I envy
 you the pain.
We may never speak about this again. But I hope you’ll never hold it
 against me that we did. I will have been a terrible father if, one day, you’d
 want to speak to me and felt that the door was shut or not sufficiently
 open.
Does Mother know?
I don’t think she
 does.
Maybe. We’ll see,
Want to talk?
I might be getting married this spring,
But you never said anything.
Well, it’s been on and off
 for more than two years.
I think it’s wonderful news,
You’re being silly,
Will you be getting in bed now?
For a
 short while. But I don’t want to do anything.
How long do you think this will go on?
Not
 long, I hope.
I can’t do this,
I can,
Yes, but I can’t.
I’d love nothing better than to take
 your clothes off and at the very least hold you. But I can’t.
Then maybe you shouldn’t stay. They know
 about us.
I figured,
How?
By the way your father spoke.
 You’re lucky. My father would have carted me off to a correctional facility.
My successor,
Is this how I was selected?
I wanted it to be you,
I made sure they picked you.
successor
You’ll never guess who is staying with us for
 two days. In your old bedroom. And standing right in front of me now.
The fact that you
 refuse to say you’ve already guessed says a great deal,
Elio,
Elio,
It’s Oliver,
They showed me pictures, you haven’t changed,
Ma s’è tutto commosso, he’s all
 choked up,
I wish I could be with you all,
You probably don’t remember me,
Good God—
 Elio!
How many years has it been?
Fifteen. I counted them last night on my way here.
Actually, that’s not true. I’ve always known.
Fifteen it is. Just look at you!
 “Look,
come for a drink, come for dinner, tonight, now,
 meet my wife, my boys. Please, please, please.
I’d love to—
I have to drop something in my office, and off we go. It’s a lovely walk
 along to the parking lot.
You don’t understand. I’d love to. But I can’t.
can’t
You never did forgive me, did you?
Forgive? There was nothing to forgive. If anything, I’m grateful for
 everything. I remember good things only.
Then what is it?
The truth is I’m not sure I can feel
 nothing. And if I am to meet your family, I would prefer not to feel
 anything.
Perhaps it never went away.
I don’t think it went away,
So,
So,
So, that’s why you can’t come over for drinks?
So, that’s why I can’t come over for drinks.
What a goose!
I want to show you something,
Recognize it?
It used to be mine, but you’ve owned it far, far longer than I have.
It has a long history,
I know. When I had it reframed I saw the inscriptions on the back,
 which is why you can also read the back of the card now. I’ve often thought
 about this Maynard guy. Think of me someday.
Your predecessor,
No, nothing like that. Whom
 will you give it to one day?
I had hoped one day to let one of my sons bring it in person when he
 comes for his residency. I’ve already added my inscription—but you can’t
see it. Are you staying in town?
Yes. For one night. I’m seeing some people at the university tomorrow
 morning, then I’m off.
So I’m forgiven.
Let’s have a drink at my hotel.
I said a drink, not a fuck.
What are these?
I have them all over.
Too much sun in my salad days. Besides, it shouldn’t be so
 surprising. I’m getting on. In three years, my elder son will be as old as you
 were then—in fact, he’s closer to the person you were when we were
 together than you are to the Elio I knew then. Talk about uncanny.
In another eight years, I’ll be forty-seven and you forty. Five years
 from then, I’ll be fifty-two and you forty-five. Will you come for dinner
 then?
Yes. I promise.
So what you’re really saying is you’ll come only when you think
 you’ll be too old to care. When my kids have left. Or when I’m a
 grandfather. I can just see us—and on that evening, we’ll sit together and
 drink a strong eau-de-vie, like the grappa your father used to serve at night
 sometimes.
And like the old men who sat around the piazzetta facing the Piave
 memorial, we’ll speak about two young men who found much happiness for
 a few weeks and lived the remainder of their lives dipping cotton swabs into
 that bowl of happiness, fearing they’d use it up, without daring to drink
 more than a thimbleful on ritual anniversaries.
God, the way they envied us from across the dinner table that first
 night in Rome,
Staring at us, the young, the old, men, women—
 every single one of them at that dinner table—gaping at us, because we
 were so happy.
 “And on that evening when we grow older still we’ll speak about these
 two young men as though they were two strangers we met on the train and
 whom we admire and want to help along. And we’ll want to call it envy,
 because to call it regret would break our hearts.
Perhaps I am not yet ready to speak of them as strangers,
If it makes you feel any better, I don’t think either of us ever will be.
I think we should have another.
Your best moment?
The first night is the one I remember best—perhaps because I fumbled
 so much. But also Rome. There is a spot on via Santa Maria dell’Anima
 that I revisit every time I’m in Rome. I’ll stare at it for a second, and
 suddenly it’ll all come back to me. I had just thrown up that night and on
 the way back to the bar you kissed me. People kept walking by but I didn’t
 care, nor did you. That kiss is still imprinted there, thank goodness. It’s all I
 have from you. This and your shirt.
And you,
what moment?
Rome too. Singing together till dawn on Piazza Navona.
Did they serenade us, or am I
 making it up?
They serenaded you—and you were drunk out of your mind. In the end
 you borrowed the guitar from one of them and you started playing, and
 then, out of nowhere, singing. Gaping, they all were. All the druggies of the
 world listening like sheep to Handel. One of the Dutch girls had lost it. You
 wanted to bring her to the hotel. She wanted to come too. What a night. We
 ended up sitting in the emptied terrace of a closed caffè behind the piazza,
 just you and I and the girl, watching dawn, each of us slumped on a chair.
Am I glad you came.
I’m glad I came too.
Can I ask you a question?
Shoot.
Would you start again if you could?
Why are you asking?
Because. Just answer.
Would I start again if I could? In a second. But I’ve had two of these,
 and I’m about to order a third.
Seeing you here is like waking from a twenty-year coma. You look
 around you and you find that your wife has left you, your children, whose
 childhood you totally missed out on, are grown men, some are married,
 your parents have died long ago, you have no friends, and that tiny face
 staring at you through goggles belongs to none other than your grandson,
 who’s been brought along to welcome Gramps from his long sleep. Your
 face in the mirror is as white as Rip Van Winkle’s. But here’s the catch:
 you’re still twenty years younger than those gathered around you, which is
 why I can be twenty-four in a second—I am twenty-four. And if you pushed
 the parable a few years further up, I could wake up and be younger than my
 elder son.
What does this say about the life you’ve lived, then?
Part of it—just part of it—was a coma, but I prefer to call it a parallel
 life. It sounds better. Problem is that most of us have—live, that is—more
 than two parallel lives.
You are the only person I’d like to say goodbye to
 when I die, because only then will this thing I call my life make any sense.
 And if I should hear that you died, my life as I know it, the me who is
 speaking with you now, will cease to exist. Sometimes I have this awful
 picture of waking up in our house in B. and, looking out to the sea, hearing
 the news from the waves themselves, He died last night. We missed out on
 so much. It was a coma. Tomorrow I go back to my coma, and you to yours.
 Pardon, I didn’t mean to offend—I am sure yours is no coma.
No, a parallel life.
Do these things die out on their own or do some things need generations
 and lifetimes to sort themselves out?
I wouldn’t want one of my sons in your bed, any more than I’d like
 yours, if you were to have one, in my son’s.
I wonder about our fathers, though.
What I don’t want is to receive a letter from your son with the bad
 news: And by the way, enclosed please find a framed postcard my father
 asked me to return to you. Nor do I want to answer with something like: You
 can come whenever you please, I am sure he would have wanted you to stay
 in his room. Promise me it won’t happen.
Promise.
What did you write on the back of the postcard?
It was going to be a surprise.
I’m too old for surprises. Besides, surprises always come with a sharp
 edge that is meant to hurt. I don’t want to be hurt—not by you. Tell me.
Just two words.
Let me guess: If not later, when?
Two words, I said. Besides, that would be cruel.
I give up.
Cor cordium, heart of hearts, I’ve never said anything truer in my life
 to anyone.
We should go.
Suppose I walk you to your car,
Suppose you came for dinner.
Suppose I did.
For your mother,
Better tell her what’s in it,
She suspects everyone.
Old room?
Old room,
Old room it is, then.
I’m sure you’re dying to see,
Been
 there, done that,
Maybe you’d prefer to make a quick stop at the bank.
I’ll bet you they never closed my account.
If we have
 time, and if you care to, I’ll take you to the belfry. I know you’ve never
 been up there.
To-die-for?
She’d be thirty today,
I know.
She wrote to me every day. Every single day.
Then one day she stopped writing. And I knew. I just knew. I’ve kept
 all her letters, you know.
I’ve kept yours too,
I have all of yours too. And something else as well.
 Which I may show you. Later.
I’d forgotten how much I loved this place. But this is exactly how I
 remember it. At noon it’s paradise.
And Anchise?
We lost him to cancer, poor man. I used to think he was so old. He
 wasn’t even fifty.
He too loved it here—him and his grafts and his orchard.
He died in my grandfather’s bedroom.
Are you happy you’re back?
Are you happy I’m back?
You know I am. More than I ought to be, perhaps.
Me too.
Come, I’ll show you where we buried some of my father’s ashes.
This was my father’s spot. I call it his ghost
 spot. My spot used to be over there, if you remember.
Did I have a spot?
You’ll always have a spot.
I know he would have wanted something like this to happen, especially
 on such a gorgeous summer day.
I am sure he would have. Where did you bury the rest of his ashes?
Oh, all over. In the Hudson, the Aegean, the Dead Sea. But this is
 where I come to be with him.
Come, I’ll take you to San Giacomo before you change your mind,
There is still time before lunch. Remember the way?
I remember the way.
You remember the way,
I’m like you,
I remember everything.
