I’ve watched through his eyes, I’ve listened through his
 ears, and tell you he’s the one. Or at least as close as
 we’re going to get.
That’s what you said about the brother.
The brother tested out impossible. For other reasons.
 Nothing to do with his ability.
Same with the sister. And there are doubts about him. He’s
 too malleable. Too willing to submerge himself in someone
 else’s will.
Not if the other person is his enemy.
So what do we do? Surround him with enemies all the time?
If we have to.
I thought you said you liked this kid.
If the buggers get him, they’ll make me look like his
 favorite uncle.
All right. We’re saving the world, after all. Take him.
Andrew, I suppose by now you’re just absolutely sick of having that horrid
 monitor. Well, I have good news for you. That monitor is going to come out
 today. We’re going to just take it right out, and it won’t hurt a bit.
So if you’ll just come over here, Andrew, just sit right up here on the
 examining table. The doctor will be in to see you in a moment.
This won’t take long, Andrew,
It’s designed to be removed. Without infection, without damage. But
 there’ll be some tickling, and some people say they have a feeling of
 something missing. You’ll keep looking around for something. Something
 you were looking for, but you can’t find it, and you can’t remember what it
 was. So I’ll tell you. It’s the monitor you’re looking for, and it isn’t there. In
 a few days that feeling will pass.
Deedee!
I need you!
Got to relax these muscles. Get it to me, now! What are you waiting for!
Catch him!
Just hold him steady.
You hold him, doctor, he’s too strong for me.
Not the whole thing! You’ll stop his heart.
Are you all right, Andrew?
They leave
 these things in the kids for three years, what do they expect? We could have
 switched him off, do you realize that? We could have unplugged his brain for
 all time.
When does the drug wear off?
Keep him here for at least an hour. Watch him. If he doesn’t start
 talking in fifteen minutes, call me. Could have unplugged him forever. I don’t
 have the brains of a bugger.
Are you all right, Andrew?
Were you ill?
You don’t look well.
I’m OK.
You’d better sit down, Andrew.
Your seat is over there,
Your monitor,
His monitor,
Washed out, Andy?
Quiet, Mr. Stilson,
Are you all right, Andrew?
Yes, ma’am.
You’ll miss the bus.
Hey, Third.
Hey, Third, we’re talkin to you, Third, hey bugger-lover, we’re talkin
 to you.
Hey, Third, hey, turd, you flunked out, huh? Thought you were better
 than us, but you lost your little birdie, Thirdie, got a bandaid on your neck.
Are you going to let me through?
Are we going to let him through? Should we let him through?
Sure we’ll let you through. First we’ll let your arm through, then
 your butt through, then maybe a piece of your knee.
Lost your birdie, Thirdie. Lost your birdie,
 Thirdie.
See-saw, marjorie daw,
Tennis!
Ping-pong!
Oh, gonna fight me, huh? Gonna fight me, Thirdie?
You mean it takes this
 many of you to fight one Third?
We’re people, not Thirds, turd face. You’re about as strong as a fart!
You might be having some
 idea of ganging up on me. You could probably beat me up pretty bad. But
 just remember what I do to people who try to hurt me. From then on you’d be
 wondering when I’d get you, and how bad it would be.
It wouldn’t be
 this bad,
It would be worse.
Geez. Look at him. He’s wasted.
All right, it’s off. How’s he doing?
You live inside somebody’s body for a few years, you get
 used to it. I look at his face now, I can’t tell what’s
 going on. I’m not used to seeing his facial expressions. I’m
 used to feeling them.
Come on, we’re not talking about psychoanalysis here. We’re
 soldiers, not witch doctors. You just saw him beat the guts
 out of the leader of a gang.
He was thorough. He didn’t just beat him, he beat him deep.
 Like Mazer Rackham at the—
Spare me. So in the judgment of the committee, he passes.
 “Mostly. Let’s see what he does with his brother, now that
 the monitor’s off.
His brother. Aren’t you afraid of what his brother will do
 to him?
You were the one who told me that this wasn’t a no-risk
 business.
I went back through some of the tapes. I can’t help it. I
 like the kid. I think were going to screw him up.
Of course we are. It’s our job. We’re the wicked witch. We
 promise gingerbread, but we eat the little bastards alive.
I’m sorry, Ender,
I don’t care.
 I’m glad it’s gone.
What’s gone?
Now he’s like us,
Like us? He keeps the little sucker till
 he’s six years old. When did you lose yours? You were three. I lost mine
 before I was five. He almost made it, little bastard, little bugger.
Well, now your guardian angels aren’t watching over you,
Now they aren’t checking to see if you feel pain, listening to hear what I’m
 saying, seeing what I’m doing to you. How about that? How about it?
Let’s play buggers and astronauts,
Where’s Mom?
Out,
I’m in charge.
I think I’ll call Daddy.
Call away,
You know he’s never in.
I’ll play,
You be the bugger,
Let him be the astronaut for once,
Keep your fat face out of it, fart mouth,
Come on upstairs
 and choose your weapons.
Watch out, Slimy,
Slimy, huh? Well, bugger-wugger, let’s see how you break that face of
 yours.
Don’t see too well, do you, bugger?
Don’t take off the mask,
Lie flat, bugger. We’re gonna vivisect you, bugger. At long last we’ve
 got one of you alive, and we’re going to see how you work.
Peter, stop it,
Peter, stop it. Very good. So you buggers can guess our names. You
 can make yourselves sound like pathetic, cute little children so we’ll love you
 and be nice to you. But it doesn’t work. I can see you for what you really are.
 They meant you to be human, little Third, but you’re really a bugger, and
 now it shows.
I could kill you like this,
Just press and press until
 you’re dead. And I could say that I didn’t know it would hurt you, that we
 were just playing, and they’d believe me, and everything would be fine. And
 you’d be dead. Everything would be fine.
I do mean it,
Whatever you think. I mean it. They only
 authorized you because I was so promising. But I didn’t pan out. You did
 better. They think you’re better. But I don’t want a better little brother, Ender.
I don’t want a Third.
I’ll tell,
No one would believe you.
They’d believe me.
Then you’re dead, too, sweet little sister.
Oh, yes,
They’ll believe that. ‘I didn’t know it would
 kill Andrew. And when he was dead, I didn’t know it would kill Valentine
 too.’
So. Not today. But someday you two won’t be together. And there’ll be
 an accident.
You’re all talk,
You don’t mean any of it.
I don’t?
And do you know why you don’t mean it?
Because
 you want to be in government someday. You want to be elected. And they
 won’t elect you if your opponents can dig up the fact that your brother and
 sister both died in suspicious accidents when they were little. Especially
 because of the letter I’ve put in my secret file, which will be opened in the
 event of my death.
Don’t give me that kind of crap,
It says, I didn’t die a natural death. Peter killed me, and if he hasn’t
 already killed Andrew, he will soon. Not enough to convict you, but enough
 to keep you from ever getting elected.
You’re his monitor now,
You better watch him, day and
 night. You better be there.
Ender and I aren’t stupid. We scored as well as you did on everything.
 Better on some things. We’re all such wonderfully bright children. You’re
 not the smartest, Peter, just the biggest.
Oh, I know. But there’ll come a day when you aren’t there with him,
 when you forget. And suddenly you’ll remember, and you’ll rush to him, and
 there he’ll be perfectly all right. And the next time you won’t worry so much,
 and you won’t come so fast. And every time, he’ll be all right. And you’ll
 think that I forgot. Even though you’ll remember that I said this, you’ll think
 that I forgot. And years will pass. And then there’ll be a terrible accident, and
I’ll find his body, and I’ll cry and cry over him, and you’ll remember this
 conversation, Vally, but you’ll be ashamed of yourself for remembering,
 because you’ll know that I changed, that it really was an accident, that it’s
 cruel of you even to remember what I said in a childhood quarrel. Except that
 it’ll be true. I’m gonna save this up, and he’s gonna die, and you won’t do a
 thing, not a thing. But you go on believing that I’m just the biggest.
The biggest asshole,
Oh, you guys are just super, just
 the biggest suckers on the planet earth.
Now he’s going to tell us it was all a joke,
Not a joke, a game. I can make you guys believe anything. I can make
 you dance around like puppets.
I’m
 going to kill you and chop you into little pieces and put you into the garbage
 hole.
Biggest suckers in the solar system.
No, Ender.
Oh, yes, Ender,
Any time, Ender.
See there,
 on the toe? That’s blood, Peter.
Ooh. Ooh, I’m gonna die, I’m gonna die. Ender killed a capper-tiller
 and now he’s gonna kill me.
Ender, I’m sorry, I’m sorry, I know how it feels. I’m
 sorry, I’m your brother. I love you.
The sister is our weak link. He really loves her.
I know. She can undo it all, from the start. He won’t want
 to leave her.
So, what are you going to do?
Persuade him that he wants to come with us more than he
 wants to stay with her.
How will you do that?
I’ll lie to him.
And if that doesn’t work?
Then I’ll tell the truth. We’re allowed to do that in
 emergencies. We can’t plan for everything, you know.
You’re not eating, Andrew,
Morning. Ender. Thanks for leaving your
 slimy washcloth in the middle of the shower.
Just for you,
Andrew, you have to eat.
Very funny.
I try to be concerned, but it makes no
 difference to my genius children.
It was all your genes that made us, Mom.
We sure didn’t
 get any from Dad.
I heard that,
It would’ve been wasted if you hadn’t.
Who is it?
I thought it was over,
I’ll see to it,
Stay and eat.
You’re in deep poo,
They found out what you did to
 Stilson, and now they’re gonna make you do time out in the Belt.
I’m only six, moron. I’m a juvenile.
You’re a Third, turd. You’ve got no rights.
Where’s
 Mom and Dad? I’m too sick to go to school.
Another oral exam, huh?
Shut up, Peter,
You should relax and enjoy it,
It could be worse.
I don’t know how.
It could be an anal exam.
Hyuk hyuk,
Where are Mother and Father?
Talking to a guy from I.F.
That’s right, look at him,
But it might he me, you know.
 They might have realized I was the best of the lot after all.
Ender,
you better come in here.
Sorry, Peter,
Children, this is no laughing matter.
Andrew,
I never thought you were the kind to get in a fight.
The Stilson boy is in the hospital,
You really did a
 number on him. With your shoe, Ender, that wasn’t exactly fair.
Do you have any explanation for your behavior, young man?
We’re willing to consider extenuating circumstances,
But I must tell you it doesn’t look good. Kicking him in the groin, kicking
 him repeatedly in the face and body when he was down—sounds like you
 really enjoyed it.
I didn’t,
Then why did you do it?
He had his gang there,
So? This excuses anything?
No.
Tell me why you kept on kicking him. You had already won.
Knocking him down won the first fight. I wanted to win all the next
 ones, too, right then, so they’d leave me alone.
You took away the
 monitor,
I had to take care of myself, didn’t I?
Ender, you should have asked a grown-up for help,
My name is Graff. Ender. Colonel Hyrum Graff. I’m director
 of primary training at Battle School in the Belt. I’ve come to invite you to
 enter the school.
But the monitor—
The final step in your testing was to see what would happen if the
 monitor comes off. We don’t always do it that way, but in your case—
And I passed?
Putting the Stilson boy in the hospital? What
 would you have done if Andrew had killed him, given him a medal?
It isn’t what he did, Mrs. Wiggin. It’s why.
Here are the requisitions. Your son has been cleared
 by the I.F. Selective Service. Of course we already have your consent,
 granted in writing at the time conception was confirmed, or he could not have
 been born. He has been ours from then, if he qualified.
It’s not very kind of you, to
 let us think you didn’t want him, and then to take him after all.
And this charade about the Stilson boy,
It wasn’t a charade, Mrs. Wiggin. Until we knew what Ender’s
 motivation was, we couldn’t be sure he wasn’t another—we had to know
 what the action meant. Or at least what Ender believed that it meant.
Must you call him that stupid nickname?
I’m sorry, Mrs. Wiggin. But that’s the name he calls himself.
What are you going to do, Colonel Graff?
Walk out the
 door with him now?
That depends,
On what?
On whether Ender wants to come.
Oh, so it’s voluntary after
 all, how sweet!
For the two of you, the choice was made when Ender was conceived.
 But for Ender, the choice has not been made at all. Conscripts make good
 cannon fodder, but for officers we need volunteers.
Officers?
Yes,
Battle School is for training future starship captains
 and commodores of flotillas and admirals of the fleet.
Let’s not have any deception here!
How many of
 the boys at the Battle School actually end up in command of ships!
Unfortunately, Mr. Wiggin, that is classified information. But I can say
 that none of our boys who makes it through the first year has ever failed to
 receive a commission as an officer. And none has served in a position of
 lower rank than chief executive officer of an interplanetary vessel. Even in
 the domestic defense forces within our own solar system, there’s honor to be
 had.
How many make it through the first year?
All who want to,
I think,
that Ender and I should have a private
 conversation.
No,
I won’t take him without letting you speak to him again,
And you really can’t stop me.
Ender,
if you come with me, you won’t be back here for a
 long time. There aren’t any vacations from Battle School. No visitors, either.
 A full course of training lasts until you’re sixteen years old—you get your
 first leave, under certain circumstances, when you’re twelve. Believe me,
 Ender, people change in six years, in ten years. Your sister Valentine will be
 a woman when you see her again, if you come with me. You’ll be strangers.
 You’ll still love her, Ender, but you won’t know her. You see I’m not
pretending it’s easy.
Mom and Daddy?
I know you, Ender. I’ve been watching the monitor disks for some
 time. You won’t miss your mother and father, not much, not for long. And
 they won’t miss you long, either.
They do love you, Ender. But you have to understand what your life
 has cost them. They were born religious, you know. Your father was baptized
 with the name John Paul Wieczorek. Catholic. The seventh of nine children.
Yes, well, people do strange things for religion. You know the
 sanctions, Ender—they were not as harsh then, but still not easy. Only the
 first two children had a free education. Taxes steadily rose with each new
 child. Your father turned sixteen and invoked the Noncomplying Families
 Act to separate himself from his family. He changed his name, renounced his
 religion, and vowed never to have more than the allotted two children. He
 meant it. All the shame and persecution he went through as a child—he
 vowed no child of his would go through it. Do you understand?
He didn’t want me.
Well, no one wants a Third anymore. You can’t expect them to be glad.
 But your father and mother are a special case. They both renounced their
 religions—your mother was a Mormon—but in fact their feelings are still
 ambiguous. Do you know what ambiguous means?
They feel both ways.
They’re ashamed of having come from noncompliant families. They
 conceal it. To the degree that your mother refuses to admit to anyone that she
 was born in Utah, lest they suspect. Your father denies his Polish ancestry,
 since Poland is still a noncompliant nation, and under international sanction
 because of it. So, you see, having a Third, even under the government’s direct
 instructions, undoes everything they’ve been trying to do.
I know that.
But it’s more complicated than that. Your father still named you with
 legitimate saints’ names. In fact, he baptized all three of you himself as soon
as he got you home after you were born. And your mother objected. They
 quarreled over it each time, not because she didn’t want you baptized, but
 because she didn’t want you baptized Catholic. They haven’t really given up
 their religion. They look at you and see you as a badge of pride, because they
 were able to circumvent the law and have a Third. But you’re also a badge of
 cowardice, because they dare not go further and practice the noncompliance
 they still feel is right. And you’re a badge of public shame, because at every
 step you interfere with their efforts at assimilation into normal complying
 society.
How can you know all this?
We monitored your brother and sister, Ender. You’d be amazed at how
 sensitive the instruments are. We were connected directly to your brain. We
 heard all that you heard, whether you were listening carefully or not. Whether
 you understood or not. We understand.
So my parents love me and don’t love me?
They love you. The question is whether they want you here. Your
 presence in this house is a constant disruption. A source of tension. Do you
 understand?
I’m not the one who causes tension.
Not anything you do, Ender. Your life itself. Your brother hates you
 because you are living proof that he wasn’t good enough. Your parents resent
 you because of all the past they are trying to evade.
Valentine loves me.
With all her heart. Completely, unstintingly, she’s devoted to you, and
 you adore her. I told you it wouldn’t be easy.
What is it like, there?
Hard work. Studies, just like school here, except we put you into
 mathematics and computers much more heavily. Military history. Strategy
 and tactics. And above all, the Battle Room.
What’s that?
War games. All the boys are organized into armies. Day after day, in
 zero gravity, there are mock battles. Nobody gets hurt, but winning and
 losing matter. Everybody starts as a common soldier, taking orders. Older
 boys are your officers, and it’s their duty to train you and command you in
battle. More than that I can’t tell you. It’s like playing buggers and astronauts
 —except that you have weapons that work, and fellow soldiers fighting
 beside you, and your whole future and the future of the human race depends
 on how well you learn, how well you fight. It’s a hard life, and you won’t
 have a normal childhood. Of course, with your mind, and as a Third to boot,
 you wouldn’t have a particularly normal childhood anyway.
All boys?
A few girls. They don’t often pass the tests to get in. Too many
 centuries of evolution are working against them. None of them will be like
 Valentine, anyway. But there’ll be brothers there, Ender.
Like Peter?
Peter wasn’t accepted, Ender, for the very reasons that you hate him.
I don’t hate him. I’m just—
Afraid of him. Well, Peter isn’t all bad, you know. He was the best
 we’d seen in a long time. We asked your parents to choose a daughter next—
 they would have anyway—hoping that Valentine would be Peter, but milder.
 She was too mild. And so we requisitioned you.
To be half Peter and half Valentine.
If things worked out right.
Am I?
As far as we can tell. Our tests are very good, Ender. But they don’t tell
 us everything. In fact, when it comes down to it, they hardly tell us anything.
 But they’re better than nothing.
Ender Wiggin, if it were just a matter of choosing the best and happiest
 future for you, I’d tell you to stay home. Stay here, grow up, be happy. There
 are worse things than being a Third, worse things than a big brother who
 can’t make up his mind whether to be a human being or a jackal. Battle
 School is one of those worse things. But we need you. The buggers may seem
 like a game to you now, Ender, but they damn near wiped us out last time.
 But it wasn’t enough. They had us cold, outnumbered and outweaponed. The
 only thing that saved us was that we had the most brilliant military
 commander we’ve ever found. Call it fate, call it God, call it damnfool luck,
 we had Mazer Rackham.
But we don’t have him now, Ender. We’ve scraped together everything
 mankind could produce, a fleet that makes the one they sent against us last
time seem like a bunch of kids playing in a swimming pool. We have some
 new weapons, too. But it might not be enough, even so. Because in the eighty
 years since the last war, they’ve had as much time to prepare as we have. We
 need the best we can get, and we need them fast. Maybe you’re not going to
 work out for us, and maybe you are. Maybe you’ll break down under the
 pressure, maybe it’ll ruin your life, maybe you’ll hate me for coming here to
 your house today. But if there’s a chance that because you’re with the fleet,
 mankind might survive and the buggers might leave us alone forever then I’m
 going to ask you to do it. To come with me.
I’m afraid,
But I’ll go with you.
Tell me again,
It’s what I was born for, isn’t it? If I don’t go, why am I alive?
Not good enough,
I don’t want to go,
but I will.
You can change your mind. Up until the time you get in
 my car with me, you can change your mind. After that, you stay at the
 pleasure of the International Fleet. Do you understand that?
All right. Let’s tell them.
You lucky little pinheaded fart-eater.
The school provides
 everything you need, from uniforms to school supplies. And as for toys—
there’s only one game.
Good-bye,
Kill some buggers for me!
I love you, Andrew!
We’ll write to you!
Come back to me! I love you forever!
With Ender, we have to strike a delicate balance. Isolate
 him enough that he remains creative—otherwise he’ll adopt
 the system here and we’ll lose him. At the same time, we
 need to make sure he keeps a strong ability to lead.
If he earns rank, he’ll lead.
lt isn’t that simple. Mazer Rackham could handle his little
 fleet and win. By the time this war happens, there’ll be too
 much, even for a genius. Too many little coats. He has to
 work smoothly with his subordinates.
Oh. good. He has to be a genius and nice. too.
Not nice. Nice will let the buggers have us all,
So you’re going to isolate him.
I’ll have him completely separated from the rest of the
 boys by the time we get to the School.
I have no doubt of it. I’ll be waiting for you to get here.
 I watched the vids of what he did to the Stilson boy. This
 is not a sweet little kid you’re bringing up here.
That’s where you’re mistaken. He’s even sweeter. But don’t
 worry. We’ll purge that in a hurry.
Sometimes I think you enjoy breaking these little
 geniuses.
There is an art to it, and I’m very, very good at it. But
 enjoy? Well, maybe. When they put back the pieces afterward,
 and it makes them better.
You’re a monster.
Thanks. Does this mean I get a raise?
Just a medal. The budget isn’t inexhaustible.
Go up the ladder one at a time,
When you come to an
 aisle with empty seats, take one. There aren’t any window seats.
Can I tell
 Valentine good-bye?
Oh, already figured it out,
Coming with us?
I don’t usually come down for recruiting,
I’m kind of in
 charge there. Administrator of the School. Like a principal. They told me I
 had to come back or I’d lose my job.
What do you think is so funny, Wiggin?
I asked you a question, soldier!
Yes sir,
Well answer it, then!
I thought of you hanging upside down by your feet. I thought it was
 funny.
To you I
 suppose it is funny. Is it funny to anybody else here?
Well why isn’t it?
Scumbrains, that’s what we’ve got in this launch. Pinheaded little morons.
 Only one of you had the brains to realize that in null gravity directions are
 whatever you conceive them to be. Do you understand that, Shafts?
No you didn’t. Of course you didn’t. Not only stupid, but a liar too.
 There’s only one boy on this launch with any brains at all, and that’s Ender
 Wiggin. Take a good look at him, little boys. He’s going to he a commander
when you’re still in diapers up there. Because he knows how to think in null
 gravity, and you just want to throw up.
Most of you are going to ice out. Get used to that, little boys. Most of
 you are going to end up in Combat School, because you don’t have the brains
 to handle deep-space piloting. Most of you aren’t worth the price of bringing
 you up here to Battle School because you don’t have what it takes. Some of
 you might make it. Some of you might be worth something to humanity. But
 don’t bet on it. I’m betting on only one.
Looks like you’ve got it made here,
Oh, won’t even talk to me?
I didn’t ask him to say that stuff,
Hey, fart-eater,
Do you like this? Hey, super-brain, this is fun?
Left
 arm. Broken. I think,
What are you, slow learners? In
 your feeble little minds, haven’t you picked up one little fact? You were
 brought here to be soldiers. In your old schools, in your old families, maybe
 you were the big shot, maybe you were tough, maybe you were smart. But we
 chose the best of the best, and that’s the only kind of kid you’re going to meet
 now. And when I tell you Ender Wiggin is the best in this launch, take the
 hint, pinheads. Don’t mess with him. Little boys have died in Battle School
 before. Do I make myself clear?
Was it a good flight, Ender?
I thought you were my friend.
Whatever gave you that idea, Ender?
Because you—
You
 didn’t lie.
I won’t lie now, either,
My job isn’t to be friends. My job
 is to produce the best soldiers in the world. In the whole history of the world.
 We need a Napoleon. An Alexander. Except that Napoleon lost in the end,
 and Alexander flamed out and died young. We need a Julius Caesar, except
 that he made himself dictator, and died for it. My job is to produce such a
 creature, and all the men and women he’ll need to help him. Nowhere in that
 does it say I have to make friends with children.
You made them hate me.
So? What will you do about it? Crawl into a corner? Start kissing their
 little backsides so they’ll love you again? There’s only one thing that will
 make them stop hating you. And that’s being so good at what you do that
 they can’t ignore you. I told them you were the best. Now you damn well
 better be.
What if I can’t?
Then too bad. Look, Ender. I’m sorry if you’re lonely and afraid. But
 the buggers are out there. Ten billion, a hundred billion, a million billion of
 them, for all we know. With as many ships, for all we know. With weapons
 we can’t understand. And a willingness to use those weapons to wipe us out.
 It isn’t the world at stake, Ender. Just us. Just humankind. As far as the rest of
 the earth is concerned, we could be wiped out and it would adjust, it would
 get on with the next step in evolution. But humanity doesn’t want to die. As a
 species, we have evolved to survive. And the way we do it is by straining and
 straining and, at last, every few generations, giving birth to genius. The one
who invents the wheel. And light. And flight. The one who builds a city, a
 nation, an empire. Do you understand any of this?
No. Of course not. So I’ll put it bluntly. Human beings are free except
 when humanity needs them. Maybe humanity needs you. To do something.
 Maybe humanity needs me—to find out what you’re good for. We might both
 do despicable things, Ender, but if humankind survives, then we were good
 tools.
Is that all? Just tools?
Individual human beings are all tools, that the others use to help us all
 survive.
That’s a lie.
No. It’s just a half truth. You can worry about the other half after we
 win this war.
It’ll be over before I grow up,
I hope you’re wrong,
By the way, you aren’t helping
 yourself at all, talking to me. The other boys are no doubt telling each other
 that old Ender Wiggin is back there licking up to Graff. If word once gets
 around that you’re a teachers’ boy, you’re iced for sure.
Goodbye,
Is that the one?
God knows,
If it isn’t Ender, then he’d better show up
 soon.
Maybe it’s nobody,
Maybe. But if that’s the case, Anderson, then in my opinion God is a
 bugger. You can quote me on that.
I will.
Anderson.
Mmm.
The kid’s wrong. I am his friend.
I know.
He’s clean. Right to the heart, he’s good.
I’ve read the reports.
Anderson, think what we’re going to do to him.
We’re going to make him the best military
 commander in history.
And then put the fate of the world on his shoulders. For his sake, I hope
 it isn’t him. I do.
Cheer up. The buggers may kill us all before he graduates.
You’re right. I feel better already.
You have my admiration. Breaking an arm—that was a master
 stroke.
That was an accident.
Really? And I’ve already commended you in your official
 report.
It’s too strong. It makes that other little bastard into a
 hero. It could screw up training for a lot of kids. I
 thought he might call for help.
Call for help? I thought that was what you valued most in
 him that he settles his own problems. When he’s out there
 surrounded by an enemy fleet, there ain’t gonna be nobody to
 help him if he calls.
Who would have guessed the little sucker’d be out of his
 seat? And that he’d land just wrong against the bulkhead?
Just one more example of the stupidity of the military. If
 you had any brains, you’d be in a real career, like selling
 life insurance.
You, too, mastermind.
We’ve just got to face the fact that we’re second rate.
 With the fate of humanity in our hands. Gives you a
 delicious feeling of power, doesn’t it? Especially because
 this time if we lose there won’t be any criticism of us at
 all.
I never thought of it that way. But let’s not lose.
See how Ender handles it. If we’ve already lost him, if he
 can’t handle this, who next? Who else?
I’ll make up a list.
In the meantime, figure out how to unlose Ender.
I told you. His isolation can’t be broken. He can never
 come to believe that anybody will ever help him out. ever.
 If he once thinks there’s an easy way out, he’s wrecked.
You’re right. That would be terrible, if he believed he had
 a friend.
He can have friends. It’s parents he can’t have.
Hey, thanks,
I
 thought I was going to have to ask for low bunk by the door.
Ender Wiggin. Ender Wiggin.
Ender Wiggin.
Not laser,
But it has a tight enough beam.
 Well-focused. You can aim it and make a three-inch circle of light on a wall a
 hundred meters off.
What’s it for?
One of the games we play during recreation. Does anyone else have his
 locker open?
I mean, have you followed directions
 and coded in your voices and hands? You can’t get into the lockers until you
 do. This room is your home for the first year or so here at the Battle School,
 so get the bunk you want and stay with it. Ordinarily we let you elect your
 chief officer and install him in the lower bunk by the door, but apparently that
 position has been taken. Can’t recode the lockers now. So think about whom
 you want to choose. Dinner in seven minutes. Follow the lighted dots on the
 floor. Your color code is red yellow yellow—whenever you’re assigned a
 path to follow, it will be red yellow yellow, three dots side by side—go
 where those lights indicate. What’s your color code, boys?
Red, yellow, yellow.
Very good. My name is Dap. I’m your mom for the next few months.
Laugh all you like, but keep it in mind. If you get lost in the school,
 which is quite possible, don’t go opening doors. Some of them lead outside.
Instead just tell someone that your mom is Dap, and they’ll
 call me. Or tell them your color, and they’ll light up a path for you to get
 home. If you have a problem, come talk to me. Remember, I’m the only
 person here who’s paid to be nice to you, but not too nice. Give me any lip
 and I’ll break your face, OK?
Which way is down, anybody tell me?
OK, that’s true. But that direction is toward the outside. The ship is
 spinning, and that’s what makes it feel like that is down. The floor actually
 curves around in that direction. Keep going long enough that way, and you
 come back to where you started. Except don’t try it. Because up that way is
 teachers’ quarters, and up that way is the bigger kids. And the bigger kids
 don’t like Launchies butting in. You might get pushed around. In fact, you
 will get pushed around. And when you do, don’t come crying to me. Got it?
 This is Battle School, not nursery school.
What are we supposed to do, then?
If you don’t like getting pushed around, figure out for yourself what to
 do about it, but I warn you—murder is strictly against the rules. So is any
 deliberate injury. I understand there was one attempted murder on the was up
 here. A broken arm. That kind of thing happens again, somebody ices out.
 You got it?
What’s icing out?
Ice. Put out in the cold. Sent Earthside. Finished at Battle School.
So, boys, if any of you are thinking of being troublemakers, at least be
 clever about it. OK?
Hi,
Hi,
I’m Mick.
Ender.
That’s a name?
Since I was little. It’s what my sister called me.
Not a bad name here. Ender. Finisher. Hey.
Hope so.
Ender, you the bugger in your launch?
I noticed you eating all alone. Every launch has one like that. Kid that
 nobody takes to right away. Sometimes I think the teachers do it on purpose.
 The teachers aren’t very nice. You’ll notice that.
Yeah.
So you the bugger?
I guess so.
Hey. Nothing to cry about, you know?
Eat nutritious stuff. It’ll keep you strong.
What about you?
Me? I’m nothing. I’m a fart in the air conditioning. I’m always there,
 but most of the time nobody knows it.
Yeah, funny, but no joke. I got nowhere here. I’m getting big now.
 They’re going to send me to my next school pretty soon. No way it’ll be
 Tactical School for me. I’ve never been a leader, you see. Only the guys who
 get to be leaders have a shot at it.
How do you get to be a leader?
Hey, if I knew, you think I’d be like this? How many guys my size you
 see in here?
A few. I’m not the only half-iced bugger-fodder. A few of us. The
 other guys—they’re all commanders. All the guys from my launch have their
 own teams now. Not me.
Listen, little guy. I’m doing you a favor. Make friends. Be a leader.
 Kiss butts if you’ve got to, but if the other guys despise you—you know what
 I mean?
Naw, you don’t know anything. You Launchies are all alike. You don’t
 know nothing. Minds like space. Nothing there. And if anything hits you, you
 fall apart. Look, when you end up like me, don’t forget that somebody
 warned you. It’s the last nice thing anybody’s going to do for you.
So why did you tell me?
What are you, a smart mouth? Shut up and eat.
I’d like a turn against you,
Lawsy me, what is this?
Is it a bug or a bugger?
A new flock of dwarfs just came aboard,
But it talks. Did you know they could talk?
I see,
You’re afraid to play me two out of three.
Beating you,
would be as easy as pissing in the
 shower.
And not half as fun,
I’m Ender Wiggin.
Listen up, scrunchface. You nobody. Got that? You nobody, got that?
 You not anybody till you gots you first kill. Got that?
If I’m nobody, then how come you scared to play me two out
 of three?
Kill the squirt quick and let’s get
 on with it.
Satisfied, launchy?
Two out of three.
We don’t allow two out of three games.
So you beat me the first time I ever touched the game,
If
 you can’t do it twice, you can’t do it at all.
Bout time they
 replaced this machine. Getting so any pinbrain can beat it now.
Maladroit,
Because he’s so small,
and
 because he wriggles. Look how he shimmies his butt when he walks.
Look at his butt. See
 ya, Worm!
What’s so funny?
Who did this!
God,
It sure as hell wasn’t you,
This takes too much brains
 for a worm.
I didn’t write it! Shut up!
I didn’t write that message!
What’s the fuss?
Somebody’s been writing messages using my name.
What message.
It doesn’t matter what message!
It does to me.
Interesting,
Aren’t you going to find out who did it?
Oh, I know who did it,
Well, who, then?
Are you shouting at me, soldier?
No, sir,
Everybody knows that the system automatically puts on the name of
 the sender.
I didn’t write that!
Shouting?
Yesterday someone sent a message that was signed GOD,
Really?
I didn’t know he was signed onto the system.
How did you do that?
Do what?
Send a message with a fake name. And Bernard’s name! That was
 great. They’re calling him Buttwatcher now. Just Watcher in front of the
 teachers, but everybody knows what he’s watching.
Poor Bernard,
And he’s so sensitive.
Come on, Ender. You broke into the system. How’d you do it?
Thanks for thinking I’m bright
 enough to do that. I just happened to see it first, that’s all.
OK, you don’t have to tell me,
Still, it was great.
Do I wiggle my butt when I walk?
Naw.
Just a little. Just don’t take such big long steps,
 that’s all.
The only person who’d ever notice was Bernard.
He’s a pig.
On the whole, pigs aren’t so bad.
You’re right. I wasn’t being fair to the pigs.
We’ve had our disappointments in the past, hanging on for
 years, hoping they’ll pull through, and then they don’t.
 Nice thing about Ender, he’s determined to ice within the
 first six months.
Oh?
Don’t you see what’s going on here? He’s stuck at the
 Giant’s Drink in the mind game. Is the boy suicidal? You
 never mentioned it.
Everybody gets the Giant sometime.
But Ender won’t leave it alone. Like Pinual.
Everybody looks like Pinual at one time or another. But
 he’s the only one who killed himself. I don’t think it had
 anything to do with the Giant’s Drink.
You’re betting my life on that. And look what he’s done
 with his launch group.
Wasn’t his fault, you know.
I don’t care. His fault or not, he’s poisoning that group.
 They’re supposed to bond, and right where he stands there’s
 a chasm a mile wide.
I don’t plan to leave him there very long, anyway.
Then you’d better plan again. That launch is sick, and he’s
 the source of the disease. He stays till it’s cured.
I was the source of the disease. I was isolating him, and
 it worked.
Give him time. To see what he does with it.
We don’t have time.
We don’t have time to rush a kid ahead who has as much
 chance of being a monster as a military genius.
Is this an order?
The recorders on, it’s always on, your ass is covered, go
 to hell.
If it’s an order, then I’ll—
It’s an order. Hold him where he is until we see now he
 handles things in his launch group. Graff, you give me
 ulcers.
You wouldn’t have ulcers if you’d leave the school to me
 and take care of the fleet yourself.
The fleet is looking for a battle commander. There’s
 nothing to take care of until you get me that.
What are you trying to do, kill yourself?
Try it,
The suit keeps you from hurting yourself, and you
 can control your bouncing with your legs, like this.
Here, snag my hand!
That’s good,
We ought to practice that kind of thing.
That’s what I thought, only everybody’s turning to butter out there,
What happens if we get out there together? We should be able to
 shove each other in opposite directions.
Yeah.
OK?
Ready?
Go.
Packed head, Ender.
Let’s push off
 before we run into that bunch.
And then let’s meet over in that corner.
Last one there saves farts in a milk bottle,
And then we just scrunch?
I’ve never done this before either,
You win.
I want to see your fart collection,
I stored it in your locker. Didn’t you notice?
I thought it was my socks.
We don’t wear socks anymore.
Oh yeah.
What does it do when you aim at a person?
I don’t know.
Why don’t we find out?
We might hurt somebody.
I meant why don’t we shoot each other in the foot or something. I’m
 not Bernard, I never tortured cats for fun.
Oh.
It can’t be too dangerous, or they wouldn’t give these guns to kids.
We’re soldiers now.
Shoot me in the foot.
No, you shoot me.
Let’s shoot each other.
You frozen?
Stiff as a board.
Let’s freeze a few,
Let’s have our first war. Us against
 them.
Better invite Bernard.
Oh?
And Shen.
That little slanty-eyed butt-wiggler?
Hey, we can’t all be niggers.
My grandpa would’ve killed you for that.
My great great grandpa would have sold him first,
Let’s go get Bernard and Shen and freeze these bugger-lovers.
I see you’ve learned how to use your equipment,
Why weren’t you ready?
You had your suits just as long
 as they did. You had just as many minutes flapping around like drunken
 ducks. Stop moaning and we’ll begin.
I think I’ll bite your head off,
How about a guessing game?
One is poison and one is not,
Guess right and I’ll take
 you into Fairyland.
Free Play
 Over
Cheater, cheater!
How did you get here?
Nobody ever comes here.
Welcome to
 Fairyland.
Isn’t it nice to know that Ender can do the impossible?
The player’s deaths have always been sickening. I’ve always
 thought the Giant’s Drink was the most perverted part of the
 whole mind game, but going for the eye like that—this is the
 one we want to put in command of our fleets?
What matters is that he won the game that couldn’t be won.
I suppose you’ll move him now.
We were waiting to see how he handled the thing with
 Bernard. He handled it perfectly.
So as soon as he can cope with a situation, you move him to
 one he can’t cope with. Doesn’t he get any rest?
He’ll have a month or two, maybe three, with his launch
 group. That’s really quite a long time in a child’s life.
Does it ever seem to you that these boys aren’t children? I
 look at what they do, the way they talk, and they don’t seem
 like little kids.
They’re the most brilliant children in the world, each in
 his own way.
But shouldn’t they still act like children? They aren’t
 normal. They act like—history. Napoleon and Wellington.
 Caesar and Brutus.
We’re trying to save the world, not heal the wounded heart.
 You’re too compassionate.
General Levy has no pity for anyone. All the videos say so.
 But don’t hurt this boy.
Are you joking?
I mean, don’t hurt him more than you have to.
I finally figured out how you sent
 that message. Using Bernard’s name.
Me?
Come on. who else? It sure wasn’t Bernard. And Shen isn’t too hot on
 the computer. And I know it wasn’t me. Who else? Doesn’t matter. I figured
 out how to fake a new student entry. You just created a student named
 Bernard-blank, B-E-R-N-A-R-D-space, so the computer didn’t kick it out as
 a repeat of another student.
Sounds like that might work,
OK, OK. It does work. But you did that practically on the first day.
Or somebody. Maybe Dap did it, to keep Bernard from getting too
 much control.
I found something else. I can’t do it with your name.
Oh?
Anything with Ender in it gets kicked out. I can’t get inside your files
 at all, either. You made your own security system.
Maybe.
I just got in and trashed somebody’s files. He’s right
 behind me on cracking the system. I need protection, Ender. I need your
 system.
If I give you my system, you’ll know how I do it and you’ll get in and
 trash me.
You say me?
I the sweetest friend you got!
I’ll setup a system for you.
Now?
Can I finish eating?
You never finish eating.
Let’s go then.
Get your desk and bring it over here. I’ll show you how.
What up?
Unauthorized Access Attempt,
Somebody done a dance on your head, mama,
Somebody
 eated your face.
You sure you want my security system now?
Ender,
What is it?
Don’t you know? This was on your bed. You
 must have sat on it.
You’re smart, Ender, but you don’t do the battle-room any better than
 me.
Salamander Army’s in contention, anyway,
They’re fartheads,
 Ender, they won’t even let you take anything you own.
Think I should strip and go
 naked?
I don’t want to go,
I understand them, Ender. You are the best of
 us. Maybe they’re in a hurry to teach you everything.
They don’t want to teach me everything,
I wanted to
 learn what it was like to have a friend.
Always my friend, always the best of my
 friends,
Go slice up the buggers.
Yeah.
Salaam.
Drink, traveler.
I am your only escape,
Death is your only escape.
 Ender looked around the room for a weapon, when suddenly the screen
 went dark. Words flashed around the rim of the desk.
 REPORT TO COMMANDER IMMEDIATELY.
 YOU ARE LATE.
 GREEN GREEN BROWN.
 Furious, Ender snapped off the desk and went to the color wall, where
 he found the ribbon of green green brown, touched it, and followed it as it lit
up before him. The dark green, light green, and brown of the ribbon reminded
 him of the early autumn kingdom he had found in the game. I must go back
 there, he told himself. The serpent is a long thread; I can let myself down
 from the tower and find my way through that place. Perhaps it’s called the
 end of the world because it’s the end of the games, because I can go to one of
 the villages and become one of the little boys working and playing there, with
 nothing to kill and nothing to kill me, just living there.
 As he thought of it, though, he could not imagine what “just living
What do you want?
You’re not a
 Salamander.
I’m supposed to be, I think,
Green green brown, right? I
 was transferred.
I’m
 supposed to give it to Bonzo Madrid.
Not bahn-zoe, pisshead. Bone-So. The name’s Spanish. Bonzo
 Madrid. Aqui nosotros hablamos español, Señor Gran Fedor.
You must be Bonzo, then?
No, just a brilliant and talented polyglot. Petra Arkanian. The only girl
 in Salamander Army. With more balls than anybody else in the room.
Mother Petra she talking?
She talking, she
 talking.
Shit talking… shit talking, shit talking!
Just between you and me,
if they gave the Battle School
 an enema, they’d stick it in at green green brown.
Who are you?
Ender Wiggin, sir,
Reassigned from launch to
 Salamander Army.
How old are you, Wiggin?
Almost seven.
I asked how old you are, not how old you almost
are.
I am six years, nine months, and twelve days old.
How long have you been working in the battleroom?
A few months, now. My aim is better.
Any training in battle maneuvers? Have you ever been part of a toon?
 Have you ever carried out a joint exercise?
I see. As you will quickly learn, the
 officers in command of this school, most notably Major Anderson, who runs
 the game, are fond of playing tricks. Salamander Army is just beginning to
 emerge from indecent obscurity. We have won twelve of our last twenty
 games. We have surprised Rat and Scorpion and Hound, and we are ready to
 play for leadership in the game. So of course, of course I am given such a
 useless, untrained, hopeless specimen of underdevelopment as yourself.
He isn’t glad to meet you.
Shut up, Arkanian,
To one trial we now add another.
 But whatever obstacles our officers choose to fling in our path, we are still
 —
Salamander!
We are the fire that will consume them, belly and bowel, head and
 heart, many flames of us, but one fire.
Salamander!
Even this one will not weaken us.
I’ll work hard and learn
 quickly,
I didn’t give you permission to speak,
I intend to
 trade you away as quickly as I can. I’ll probably have to give up someone
 valuable along with you, but as small as you are you are worse than useless.
 One more frozen, inevitably, in every battle, that’s all you are, and we’re now
 at a point where every frozen soldier makes a difference in the standings.
 Nothing personal, Wiggin, but I’m sure you can get your training at someone
else’s expense.
He’s all heart,
Here are your instructions, Wiggin. I expect that it is the last time I’ll
 need to speak to you. You will stay out of the way when we’re training in the
 battleroom. You have to be there, of course, but you will not belong to any
 toon and you will not take part in any maneuvers. When we’re called to
 battle, you will dress quickly and present yourself at the gate with everyone
 else. But you will not pass through the gate until four full minutes after the
 beginning of the game, and then you will remain at the gate, with your
 weapon undrawn and unfired, until such time as the game ends.
Relax,
I’m not an officer.
You’re a toon leader, aren’t you?
Whatever gave you that idea, Wiggin?
You have a bunk in the front.
I bunk in the front because I’m the best sharpshooter in Salamander
 Army, and because Bonzo is afraid I’ll start a revolution if the toon leaders
 don’t keep an eye on me. As if I could start anything with boys like these.
Everybody’s better than I am,
I’m a girl,
and you’re a pissant of a six-year-old. We have
 so much in common, why don’t we be friends?
I won’t do your deskwork for you,
Ha,
It’s all so
 military, when you’re in the game. School isn’t like it is for Launchies.
 Histories and strategy and tactics and buggers and math and stars, things
 you’ll need as a pilot or a commander. You’ll see.
So you’re my friend. Do I get a prize?
Bonzo isn’t going to let you practice. He’s going to make you take your
 desk to the battleroom and study. He’s right, in a way—he doesn’t want a
 totally untrained little kid start screwing up his precision maneuvers.
Bonzo, he pre-cise. He so careful, he piss on a plate and
 never splash.
The battleroom is open all the time. If you want, I’ll take you in the off
 hours and show you some of the things I know, I’m not a great soldier, but
 I’m pretty good, and I sure know more than you.
If you want,
Starting tomorrow morning after breakfast.
What if somebody’s using the room? We always went right after
breakfast, in my launch.
No problem. There are really nine battlerooms.
I never heard of any others.
They all have the same entrance. The whole center of the battle school,
 the hub of the wheel, is battlerooms. They don’t rotate with the rest of the
 station. That’s how they do the nullg, the no-gravity—it just holds still. No
 spin, no down. But they can set it up so that any one of the rooms is at the
 battleroom entrance corridor that we all use. Once you’re inside, they move it
 along and another battleroom’s in position.
Oh.
Like I said. Right after breakfast.
Right,
Petra,
Thanks.
Go left out of the door,
We share it
 with Rat, Condor, and Squirrel.
Hey,
You can’t go like that. Uniforms at all times out of
 this room.
Even going to the toilet?
Especially. And you’re forbidden to speak to anyone from any other
 army. At meals or in the toilet. You can get away with it sometimes in the
 game room, and of course whenever a teacher tells you to, but if Bonzo catch
 you, you dead, eh?
Thanks.
And, uh, Bonzo get mad if you skin by Petra.
She was naked when I came in, wasn’t she?
She do what she like, but you keep you clothes on. Bonzo’s orders.
Hey, they putting babies in Salamander uniforms now?
Hey, look! Salamander’s getting babies now! Look at this! He could
 walk between my legs without touching my balls!
Cause you got none, Dink, that’s why,
It’s Wiggin. You
 know, the smartass from the game room.
Wait a
 minute,
Rabbit Army just went in, and it takes a few
 minutes to change to the next battleroom.
There’s more to the battleroom than just
 switching from one to the next,
For instance, why is there gravity
 in the corridor outside the room, just before we go in?
And if the battlerooms are really free-floating,
 what happens when one is connected? Why doesn’t it start to move with the
 rotation of the school?
These are the mysteries,
Do not pry into
 them. Terrible things happened to the last soldier who tried. He was
 discovered hanging by his feet from the ceiling of the bathroom, with his
 head stuffed in the toilet.
So I’m not the first person to ask the question.
You remember this, little boy.
They never tell you any more truth than they
 have to. But any kid with brains knows that there’ve been some changes in
 science since the days of old Mazer Rackham and the Victorious Fleet.
 Obviously we can now control gravity. Turn it on and off, change the
 direction, maybe reflect it—I’ve thought of lots of neat things you could do
 with gravity weapons and gravity drives on starships. And think how
 starships could move near planets. Maybe tear big chunks out of them by
 reflecting the planet’s own gravity back on itself, only from another direction,
 and focused down to a smaller point. But they say nothing.
Come, little boy,
The battleroom is ready. Petra’s hands are
 steady. The enemy is deadly.
Petra the poet, they call me.
They also say you’re crazy as a loon.
Better believe it, baby butt.
Let go of me,
You’re good,
None better. And you’re going to learn how to do it.
Something most soldiers don’t realize is that the farther away your target is,
 the longer you have to hold the beam within about a two-centimeter circle.
 It’s the difference between a tenth of a second and a half a second, but in
 battle that’s a long time. A lot of soldiers think they missed when they were
 right on target, but they moved away too fast. So you can’t use your gun like
 a sword, swish swish slice-em-in-half. You got to aim.
Good,
You don’t have any bad habits.
I don’t have any good ones, either,
I give you those.
No,
I want to be a commander someday, so I’ve got to play
 the game room.
Hey, the great soldier returns!
And they’re right. I’m about as useful as a sneeze in a spacesuit.
We’ll get ready together.
Sure,
If you’re
 coming to work. If you’re just farting around, you’re out. I don’t have any
 time to waste.
Where were you?
Practicing in a
 battleroom.
I hear you had some of your old Launchy group with you.
I couldn’t practice alone.
I won’t have any soldiers in Salamander Army hanging around with
 Launchies. You’re a soldier now.
Did you hear me, Wiggin?
Yes, sir.
No more practicing with those little farts.
May I speak to you privately?
Listen, Wiggin, I don’t
 want you, I’m trying to get rid of you, but don’t give me any problems or I’ll
 paste you to the wall.
Look, you asked me to come
out here, now talk.
Sir, you were correct not to place me in a toon. I don’t know how to do
 anything.
I don’t need you to tell me when I’m correct.
But I’m going to become a good soldier. I won’t screw up your regular
 drill, but I’m going to practice, and I’m going to practice with the only people
 who will practice with me, and that’s my Launchies.
You’ll do what I tell you, you little bastard.
That’s right, sir. I’ll follow all the orders that you’re authorized to give.
 But free play is free. No assignments can be given. None. By anyone.
 He could see Bonzo’s anger growing hot. Hot anger was bad. Ender’s
 anger was cold, and he could use it. Bonzo’s was hot, and so it used him.
 “Sir, I’ve got my own career to think of. I won’t interfere in your
 training and your battles, but I’ve got to learn sometime. I didn’t ask to be put
 into your army, you’re trying to trade me as soon as you can. But nobody will
 take me if I don’t know anything, will they? Let me learn something, and
 then you can get rid of me all the sooner and get a soldier you can really use.
While you’re in Salamander Army, you’ll obey me.
If you try to control my free play, I can get you iced.
Bastard,
It isn’t my fault you gave me that order in front of everybody,
But if you want, I’ll pretend you won this argument. Then tomorrow
 you can tell me you changed your mind.
I don’t need you to tell me what to do.
I don’t want the other guys to think you backed down. You wouldn’t be
 able to command as well.
I’ll have your ass someday,
Probably,
I changed my mind, pinprick. Maybe by practicing
 with your Launchies you’ll learn something, and I can trade you easier.
 Anything to get rid of you faster.
Thank you, sir,
Anything,
I hope you’re iced.
A take the handles and go up. B left, C right, D
 down.
And you, pinprick, wait four minutes, then come just inside the door.
 Don’t even take your gun off your suit.
Next time, when it’s like
 that, you can shoot.
I obey
 orders.
The order still stands,
and don’t you forget it.
Flash suits!
Wiggin, I finally traded you. I was able to persuade Rat Army that your
 incredible place on the efficiency list is more than an accident. You go over
 there tomorrow.
Thank you, sir,
You disobeyed me,
No good
 soldier ever disobeys.
Besides,
you’re as close to being a good
 shot as you’ll ever be.
Colonel Graff, the games have always been run fairly
 before. 
random 
symmetrical.
Fairness is a wonderful attribute, Major Anderson. It has
 nothing to do with war.
The game will be compromised. The comparative standings
 will become meaningless.
Alas.
It will take months. Years, to develop the new battlerooms
 and run the simulations.
That’s why I’m asking you now. To begin. Be creative. Think
 of every stacked, impossible, unfair star arrangement you
 can. Think of other ways to bend the rules. Late
 notification. Unequal forces. Then run the simulations and
 see which ones are hardest, which easiest. We want an
 intelligent progression here. We want to bring him along.
When do you plan to make him a commander? When he’s eight?
Of course not. I haven’t even assembled his army yet.
Oh, so you’re stacking it that way, too?
You’re getting too close to the game, Anderson. You’re
 forgetting that it is merely a training exercise.
 “It’s also status, identity, purpose, name; all that makes
 these children who they are comes out of this game. When it
 becomes known that the game can be manipulated, weighted,
 cheated, it will undo this whole school. I’m not
 exaggerating.
I know.
So I hope Ender Wiggin truly is the one, because you’ll
 have defeated the effectiveness of our training method for a
 long time to come.
If Ender isn’t the one, if his peak of military brilliance
 does not coincide with the arrival of our fleets at the
 bugger homeworlds, then it doesn’t really matter what our
 training method is or isn’t.
I hope you will forgive me, Colonel Graff, but I feel that
 I must report your orders and my opinion of their
 consequences to the Strategos and the Hegemon.
Why not our dear Polemarch?
Everybody knows you have him in your pocket.
Such hostility Major Anderson. And I thought we were
 friends.
We are. And I think you may be right about Ender. I just
 don’t believe you, and you alone, should decide the fate of
 the world.
I don’t even think it’s right for me to decide the fate of
 Ender Wiggin.
So you won’t mind if I notify them?
Of course I mind, you meddlesome ass. This is something to
 be decided by people who know what they’re doing, not these
 frightened politicians who got their office because they
 happen to be politically potent in the country they came
 from.
But you understand why I’m doing it.
Because you’re such a short-sighted little bureaucratic
 bastard that you think you need to cover yourself in case
 things go wrong. Well, if things go wrong we’ll all be
 bugger meat. So trust me now, Anderson, and don’t bring the
 whole damn Hegemony down on review. What I’m doing is hard
 enough without them.
Oh, is it unfair? Are things stacked against you? You can
 do it to Ender, but you can’t take it, is that it?
Ender Wiggin is ten times smarter and stronger than I am.
 What I’m doing to him will bring out his genius. If I had to
 go through it myself, it would crush me. Major Anderson, I
 know I’m wrecking the game, and I know you love it better
 than any of the boys who play. Hate me if you like, but
 don’t stop me.
I reserve the right to communicate with the Hegemony and
 the Strategoi at any time. But for now do what you want.
Thank you ever so kindly.
Ender Wiggin, the little farthead who leads the standings, what a
 pleasure to have you with us.
With you around, how can any army
 lose?
We doing OK, Ender Bender. I Rose de Nose, Jewboy extraordinaire,
 and you ain’t nothin but a pinheaded pinprick of a goy. Don’t you forget it.
I took you on, goy, because I didn’t want people to think I only win
 because I got great soldiers. I want them to know that even with a little puke
 of a soldier like you I can still win. We only got three rules here. Do what I
 tell you and don’t piss in the bed.
That was three rules. We don’t do too good in math here.
Your practice sessions with half-assed little Launchies are over,
 Wiggin. Done. You’re in a big boys’ army now. I’m putting you in Dink
 Meeker’s toon. From now on, as far as you’re concerned, Dink Meeker is
 God.
Then who are you?
The personnel officer who hired God.
And you are
 forbidden to use your desk again until you’ve frozen two enemy soldiers in
 the same battle. This order is out of self-defense. I hear you’re a genius
 programmer. I don’t want you screwing around with my desk.
 Everybody erupted in laughter. It took Ender a moment to understand
 why. Rose had programmed his desk to display—and animate—a bigger
than-life sized picture of male genitals, which waggled back and forth as
 Rose held the desk on his naked lap. This is just the sort of commander
 Bonzo would trade me to, thought Ender. How does a boy who spends his
 time like this win battles?
 Ender found Dink Meeker in the game room, not playing, just sitting
 and watching. “A guy pointed you out,
I’m Ender Wiggin.
I know,
I’m in your toon.
I know,
I’m pretty inexperienced.
Look, Wiggin, I know all this. Why do you
 think I asked Rose to get you for me?
Why?
I’ve watched your practice sessions with the Launchies. I think you
 show some promise. Bonzo is stupid and I wanted you to get better training
 than Petra could give you. All she can do is shoot.
I needed to learn that.
You still move like you were afraid to wet your pants.
So teach me.
So learn.
I’m not going to quit my freetime practice sessions.
I don’t want you to quit them.
Rose the Nose does.
Rose the Nose can’t stop you. Likewise, he can’t stop you from using
 your desk.
I thought commanders could order anything.
They can order the moon to turn blue, too, but it doesn’t happen.
 Listen, Ender, commanders have just as much authority as you let them have.
 The more you obey them, the more power they have over you.
What’s to stop them from hurting me?
I thought that was why you were taking personal attack classes.
You’ve really been watching me, haven’t you?
I don’t want to get Rose mad at me. I want to be part of the battles now,
 I’m tired of sitting out till the end.
Your standings will go down.
Listen, Ender, as long as you’re part of my toon, you’re part of the
 battle.
How can we attack
 lying on our backs?
You aren’t
 attacking on your back, you’re dropping downward toward them.
Over the top,
Again,
 upside down,
Do we have to learn how to fight from a Launchy?
Yes,
Now you’re in a real army,
You don’t have to keep
 practicing with us.
From you I can learn things that nobody knows,
Dink Meeker is the best. I hear he’s your toon leader.
Then let’s get busy. I’ll teach you what I learned from him today.
I thought I told you not to use your desk.
I’m completing the trigonometry assignment for
 tomorrow.
I said not to use it.
I need trigonometry more
 than I need you.
You’re going down in the standings, boy,
I expect to. I was only leading the list because of the stupid way
 Salamander Army was using me.
Stupid? Bonzo’s strategy won a couple of key games.
Bonzo’s strategy wouldn’t win a salad fight. I was violating orders
 every time I fired my gun.
So everything Bonzo said
 about you was a lie. You’re not only short and incompetent, you’re
 insubordinate, too.
But I turned defeat into stalemate, all by myself.
We’ll see how you do all by yourself next time.
You dumb as a thumb.
Wiggin!
Shivering? Trembling? Don’t wet your pants, little Launchy.
We’ll see how well you do now, Ender.
 As soon as that door opens, you jump through, go straight ahead toward the
 enemy’s door.
Excellent, sir,
The direction I fire my gun
 is the direction of their main contingent.
You won’t have time to fire anything, pinprick.
If one man can do that much damage, think what a toon
 can do.
Come on,
Why did you wait?
Wasn’t hungry.
Well, now you know why I’m not a commander.
Actually, they promoted me twice, and I refused.
Refused?
They took away my old locker and bunk and desk, assigned me to a
commander cabin and gave me an army. But I just stayed in the cabin until
 they gave in and put me back into somebody else’s army.
Why?
Because I won’t let them do it to me. I can’t believe you haven’t seen
 through all this crap yet, Ender. But I guess you’re young. These other
 armies, they aren’t the enemy. It’s the teachers, they’re the enemy. They get
 us to fight each other, to hate each other. The game is everything. Win win
 win, it amounts to nothing. We kill ourselves, go crazy trying to beat each
 other, and all the time the old bastards are watching us, studying us,
 discovering our weak points, deciding whether we’re good enough or not.
 Well, good enough for what? I was six years old when they brought me here.
 What the hell did I know? They decided I was right for the program, but
 nobody ever asked me if the program was right for me.
So why don’t you go home?
Because I can’t give up the game.
Because I
 love this.
So why not be a commander?
Never. Look what it does to Rosen. The boy’s
 crazy. Rose de Nose. Sleeps in here with us instead of in his cabin. Why?
 Because he’s scared to be alone, Ender. Scared of the dark.
Rose?
But they made him a commander and so he has to act like one. He
 doesn’t know what he’s doing. He’s winning, but that scares him worst of all,
 because he doesn’t know why he’s winning, except that I have something to
 do with it. Any minute somebody could find out that Rosen isn’t some magic
 Israeli general who can win no matter what. He doesn’t know why anybody
 wins or loses. Nobody does.
It doesn’t mean he’s crazy, Dink.
I know, you’ve been here a year, you think these people are normal.
 Well, they’re not. We’re not. I look in the library, I call up books on my desk.
 Old ones, because they won’t let us have anything new, but I’ve got a pretty
 good idea what children are, and we’re not children. Children can lose
 sometimes, and nobody cares. Children aren’t in armies, they aren’t
 commanders, they don’t rule over forty other kids, it’s more than anybody
can take and not get a little crazy.
I had a brother. Just a normal guy. All he cared about was girls. And
 flying. He wanted to fly. He used to play ball with the guys. A pickup game,
 shooting balls at a hoop, dribbling down the corridors until the peace officers
 confiscated your ball. We had a great time. He was teaching me how to
 dribble when I was taken.
Hey, I know,
 nobody’s supposed to talk about home. But we came from somewhere. The
 Battle School didn’t create us, you know. The Battle School doesn’t create
 anything. It just destroys. And we all remember things from home. Maybe
 not good things, but we remember and then we lie and pretend that—look,
 Ender, why is that nobody talks about home, ever? Doesn’t that tell you how
 important it is? That nobody even admits that—oh hell.
No, it’s all right,
I was just thinking about Valentine. My
 sister.
I wasn’t trying to make you upset.
It’s OK. I don’t think of her very much, because I always get like this.
That’s right, we never cry. Christ, I never thought of that. Nobody ever
 cries. We really are trying to be adult. Just like our fathers. I bet your father
 was like you. I bet he was quiet and took it, and then busted out and—
I’m not like my father.
So maybe I’m wrong. But look at Bonzo, your old commander. He’s
 got an advanced case of Spanish honor. He can’t allow himself to have
 weaknesses. To be better than him, that’s an insult. To be stronger, that’s like
 cutting off his balls. That’s why he hates you, because you didn’t suffer when
 he tried to punish you. He hates you for that, he honestly wants to kill you.
 He’s crazy. They’re all crazy.
And you aren’t?
I be crazy too, little buddy, but at least when I be craziest, I be floating
 all alone in space and the crazy, she float out of me, she soak into the walls,
 and she don’t come out till there be battles and little boy’s bump into the
walls and squish out de crazy.
And you be crazy too,
Come on, let’s go eat.
Maybe you can be a commander and not be crazy. Maybe knowing
 about the craziness means you don’t have to fall for it.
I’m not going to let the bastards run me, Ender. They’ve got you
 pegged, too, and they don’t plan to treat you kindly, look what they’ve done
 to you so far.
They haven’t done anything except promote me.
And she make you life so easy, neh?
So maybe you’re right.
They think they got you on ice. Don’t let them.
But that’s what I came for,
For them to make me into a
 tool. To save the world.
I can’t believe you still believe it.
Believe what?
The bugger menace. Save the world. Listen. Ender, if the buggers were
 coming back to get us, they’d be here. They aren’t invading again. We beat
 them and they’re gone.
 “But the videos—
All from the First and Second Invasions. Your grandparents weren’t
 born yet when Mazer Rackham wiped them out. You watch. It’s all a fake.
 There is no war, and they’re just screwing around with us.
But why?
Because as long as people are afraid of the buggers, the I.F. can stay in
 power, and as long as the I.F. is in power, certain countries can keep their
 hegemony. But keep watching the vids, Ender. People will catch onto this
 game pretty soon, and there’ll be a civil war to end all wars. That’s the
 menace, Ender, not the buggers. And in that war, when it comes, you and I
 won’t be friends. Because you’re American, just like our dear teachers. And I
 am not.
Where’s Bernard?
Haven’t you heard?
Word’s out that any Launchy who comes to your practice sessions
 won’t ever amount to anything in anybody’s army. Word’s out that the
 commanders don’t want any soldiers who’ve been damaged by your
 training.
But the way I brain it,
I be the best soldier I can,
 and any commander worth a damn, he take me. Neh?
Eh,
Hey,
Make sure you spell my name right!
No practice tonight,
The hell there’s not,
Give it a few days. I don’t want any of the little kids getting hurt.
If you stop, even one night, they’ll figure it works to do this kind of
 thing. Just like if you’d ever backed down to Bernard back when he was
 being a swine.
Besides,
We aren’t scared and we don’t care, so you owe
 it to us to go on. We need the practice and so do you.
We don’t accomplish that much anyway,
They scare you, too? They slap you up in the
 bathroom? Stick you head in the pissah? Somebody gots a gun up you bung?
No,
You still my friend?
Yes.
Then I still you friend, Ender, and I stay here and practice with you.
Listen to them,
Remember the words. If
 you ever want to make your enemy crazy, shout that kind of stuff at them. It
 makes them do dumb things, to be mad. But we don’t get mad.
Go nova!
We’ll go around them and make for the door.
 Now!
Stay there!
Just stay
 there!
You bad!
You scary! You flame!
Practice is over for the day,
They’ll be back tomorrow,
Won’t do them any good,
If they come without suits,
 we’ll do this again. If they come with suits, we can flash them.
Besides,
the teachers won’t let it happen.
Hey Ender!
You nothing, man! You be nothing!
My old commander Bonzo,
I think he doesn’t like me.
They’re as big as most of the buggers who attacked you last night.
 They’ll think twice.
I didn’t call you in here to waste time. How in hell did
 the computer do that?
I don’t know.
How could it pick up a picture of Ender’s brother and put
 it into the graphics in this Fairyland routine?
Colonel Graff, I wasn’t there when it was programmed. All I
 know is that the computer’s never taken anyone to this place
 before. Fairyland was strange enough, but this isn’t
 Fairyland anymore. It’s beyond the End of the World, and—
I know the names of the places, I just don’t know what they
 mean.
Fairyland was programmed in. It’s mentioned in a few other
 places. But nothing talks about the End of the World. We
 don’t have any experience with it.
I don’t like having the computer screw around with Ender’s
 mind that way. Peter Wiggin is the most potent person in his
 life, except maybe his sister Valentine.
And the mind game is designed to help shape them, help them
 find worlds they can be comfortable in.
You don’t get it, do you, Major Imbu? I don’t want Ender
 being comfortable with the end of the world. Our business
 here is not to be comfortable with the end of the world!
The End of the World in the game isn’t necessarily the end
 of humanity in the bugger wars. It has a private meaning to
 Ender.
Good. What meaning?
I don’t know, sir. I’m not the kid. Ask him.
Major Imbu, I’m asking you.
There could be a thousand meanings.
Try one.
You’ve been isolating the boy. Maybe he’s wishing for the
 end of this world, the Battle School. Or maybe it’s about
 the end of the world he grew up with as a little boy, his
 home, coming here. Or maybe it’s his way of coping with
 having broken up so many other kids here. Ender’s a
 sensitive kid, you know, and he’s done some pretty bad
 things to people’s bodies, he might be wishing for the end
 of that world.
Or none of the above.
The mind game is a relationship between the child and the
 computer. Together they create stories. The stories are
 true, in the sense that they reflect the reality of the
 child’s life. That’s all I know.
And I’ll tell you what I know, Major Imbu. That picture of
 Peter Wiggin was not one that could have been taken from our
 files here at the school. We have nothing on him,
 electronically or otherwise, since Ender came here. And that
 picture is more recent.
It’s only been a year and a half, sir, how much can the boy
 change?
He’s wearing his hair completely differently now. His mouth
 was redone with orthodontia. I got a recent photograph from
 landside and compared. The only way the computer here in the
 Battle School could have got that picture was by
 requisitioning it from a landside computer. And not even one
 connected with the I.F. That takes requisitionary powers. We
 can’t just go into Guilford County North Carolina and pluck
 a picture out of school files. Did anyone at this school
 authorize getting this?
You don’t understand, sir. Our Battle School computer is
 only a part of the I.F. network. lf we want a picture, we
 have to get a requisition, but if the mind game program
 determines that the picture is necessary—
It can just go take it.
Not just every day. Only when it’s for the child’s own
 good.
OK, it’s for his good. But why. His brother is dangerous,
 his brother was rejected for this program because he’s one
 of the worst human beings we’ve laid hands on. Why is he so
 important to Ender? Why, after all his time?
Honestly, sir. I don’t know. And the mind game program is
 designed so that it can’t tell us. It may not know itself,
 actually. This is uncharted territory.
You mean the computer’s making this up as it goes along?
You might put it that way.
Well, that does make me feel a little better. I thought I
 was the only one.
A model student,
I wish we had a hundred others in
 the school just like him. Studies all the time, turns in all his work on time. He
 loves to learn.
I’ve been deciding,
whether to kill you or what.
I love you, too, Peter.
It would be so easy. You always make these stupid little fires. It’s just a
 matter of knocking you out and burning you up. You’re such a firebug.
I’ve been thinking of castrating you in your sleep.
No you haven’t. You only think of things like that when I’m with you.
 I bring out the best in you. No, Valentine, I’ve decided not to kill you. I’ve
decided that you’re going to help me.
I am?
Valentine, things are coming to a head. I’ve been tracking troop
 movements in Russia.
What are we talking about?
The world, Val. You know Russia? Big empire? Warsaw Pact? Rulers
 of Eurasia from the Netherlands to Pakistan?
They don’t publish their troop movements, Peter.
Of course not. But they do publish their passenger and freight train
 schedules. I’ve had my desk analyzing those schedules and figuring out when
 the secret troop trains are moving over the same tracks. Done it backward
 over the past three years. In the last six months, they’ve stepped up, they’re
 getting ready for war. Land war.
But what about the League? What about the buggers?
The Polemarch is Russian, isn’t he? And he knows what’s happening
 with the fleet. Either they’ve found out the buggers aren’t a threat after all, or
we’re about to have a big battle. One way or another, the bugger war is about
 to be over. They’re getting ready for after the war.
If they’re moving troops, it must be under the direction of the
 Strategos.
It’s all internal, within the Warsaw Pact.
So it’s back to the way it was before.
A few changes. The shields make it so nobody bothers with nuclear
 weapons anymore. We have to kill each other thousands at a time instead of
 millions.
Val, it was bound to happen. Right now there’s a
 vast international fleet and army in existence, with American hegemony.
 When the bugger wars are over, all that power will vanish, because it’s all
 built on fear of the buggers. And suddenly we’ll look around and discover
 that all the old alliances are gone, dead and gone, except one, the Warsaw
 Pact. And it’ll be the dollar against five million lasers. We’ll have the
 asteroid belt, but they’ll have Earth, and you run out of raisins and celery
 kind of fast out there, without Earth.
Peter, why do I get the idea that you are thinking of this as a golden
 opportunity for Peter Wiggin?
For both of us, Val.
Peter, you’re twelve years old. I’m ten. They have a word for people
 our age. They call us children and they treat us like mice.
But we don’t think like other children, do we, Val? We don’t talk like
 other children. And above all, we don’t write like other children.
For a discussion that began with death threats, Peter, we’ve strayed
 from the topic, I think.
I’ve been studying history,
I’ve been learning things about
 patterns in human behavior. There are times when the world is rearranging
 itself, and at times like that, the right words can change the world. Think
 what Pericles did in Athens, and Demosthenes—
Yes, they managed to wreck Athens twice.
Pericles, yes, but Demosthenes was right about Philip—
Or provoked him—
See? This is what historians usually do, quibble about cause and effect
 when the point is, there are times when the world is in flux and the right
 voice in the right place can move the world. Thomas Paine and Ben Franklin,
 for instance. Bismarck. Lenin.
Not exactly parallel cases, Peter.
I didn’t expect you to understand. You still believe that teachers know
 something worth learning.
So you see yourself as
 Bismarck?
I see myself as knowing how to insert ideas into the public mind.
 Haven’t you ever thought of a phrase, Val, a clever thing to say, and said it,
 and then two weeks or a month later you hear some adult saying it to another
 adult, both of them strangers? Or you see it on a video or pick it up on a net?
I always figured I heard it before and only thought I was making it up.
You were wrong. There are maybe two or three thousand people in the
 world as smart as us, little sister. Most of them are making a living
 somewhere. Teaching, the poor bastards, or doing research. Precious few of
 them are actually in positions of power.
I guess we’re the lucky few.
Funny as a one-legged rabbit, Val.
Of which there are no doubt several in these woods.
Hopping in neat little circles.
Val, we can say the words that everyone else will be saying two weeks
 later. We can do that. We don’t have to wait until we’re grown up and safely
 put away in some career.
Peter, you’re twelve.
Not on the nets I’m not. On the nets I can name myself anything I want,
 and so can you.
On the nets we are clearly identified as students, and we can’t even get
 into the real discussions except in audience mode, which means we can’t say
 anything anyway.
I have a plan.
You always do.
We can get on the nets as full-fledged adults. with whatever net names
 we want to adopt, if Father gets us onto his citizen’s access.
And why would he do that? We already have student access. What do
 you tell him, I need citizen’s access so I can take over the world?
No, Val. I won’t tell him anything. You’ll tell him how you’re worried
 about me. How I’m trying so very hard to do well at school, but you know
 it’s driving me crazy because I can never talk to anybody intelligent,
everybody always talks down to me because I’m young, I never get to
 converse with my peers. You can prove that the stress is getting to me.
So you get him to authorize us to share his citizen’s access. To adopt
 our own identities there, to conceal who we are so people will give us the
 intellectual respect we deserve.
Val,
I know what you think of me. I’m not a nice person,
 you think.
An arrow through your heart.
I’ve been planning to come talk to you for a long time. But I kept being
 afraid.
Another failed launch.
Val, I was afraid you wouldn’t believe me. That you wouldn’t believe I
 could do it.
Peter, I believe you could do anything, and probably will.
But I was even more afraid that you’d believe me and try to stop me.
Come on, threaten to kill me again, Peter.
So I’ve got a sick sense of humor. I’m sorry. You know I was teasing. I
 need your help.
You’re just what the world needs. A twelve-year-old to solve all our
 problems.
It’s not my fault I’m twelve right now. And it’s not my fault that right
 now is when the opportunity is open. Right now is the time when I can shape
 events. The world is always a democracy in times of flux, and the man with
the best voice will win. Everybody thinks Hitler got to power because of his
 armies, because they were willing to kill, and that’s partly true, because in the
 real world power is always built on the threat of death and dishonor. But
 mostly he got to power on words—on the right words at the right time.
I was just thinking of comparing you to him.
I don’t hate Jews, Val. I don’t want to destroy anybody. And I don’t
 want war, either. I want the world to hold together. Is that so bad? I don’t
 want us to go back to the old way. Have you read about the world wars?
Yes.
We can go back to that again. Or worse. We could find ourselves
 locked into the Warsaw Pact. Now, there’s a cheerful thought.
Peter, we’re children, don’t you understand that? We’re going to
 school, we’re growing up—
If I believe that, if I
 accept that, then I’ve got to sit back and watch while all the opportunities
 vanish, and then when I’m old enough it’s too late. Val, listen to me. I know
 how you feel about me, you always have. I was a vicious, nasty brother. I was
 cruel to you and crueler to Ender before they took him. But I didn’t hate you.
 I loved you both, I just had to be—had to have control, do you understand
 that? It’s the most important thing to me, it’s my greatest gift, I can see where
 the weak points are, I can see how to get in and use them, I just see those
 things without even trying. I could become a businessman and run some big
 corporation, I’d scramble and maneuver until I was at the top of everything
 and what would I have? Nothing. I’m going to rule, Val, I’m going to have
 control of something. But I want it to be something worth ruling. I want to
 accomplish something worthwhile. A Pax Americana through the whole
 world. So that when somebody else comes, after we beat the buggers, when
 somebody else comes here to defeat us, they’ll find we’ve already spread
 over a thousand worlds, we’re at peace with ourselves and impossible to
 destroy. Do you understand? I want to save mankind from self-destruction.
So a twelve-year-old boy and
 his kid sister are going to save the world?
How old was Alexander? I’m not going to do it overnight. I’m just
 going to start now. If you’ll help me.
I don’t believe what you did to those squirrels was part of an act. I
 think you did it because you love to do it.
I know,
It’s what
 I’m most afraid of. That I really am a monster. I don’t want to be a killer but I
 just can’t help it.
Val, if you don’t help me, I don’t know what I’ll become. But if you’re
 there, my partner in everything, you can keep me from becoming—like that.
 Like the bad ones.
I
 will. I’ll help you.
We can’t learn how our style of
 writing is working unless we get responses—and if we’re bland, no one will
 answer.
We have to seem completely separate. We’ll write about different
 things at different times. We’ll never refer to each other. You’ll mostly work
 on the west coast nets, and I’ll mostly work in the south. Regional issues, too.
 So do your homework.
Let both of them
 find a following as they can,
Write it yourself, then!
I can’t,
They can’t both sound alike. Ever. You forget
 that someday we’ll be famous enough that somebody will start running
analyses. We have to come up as different people every time.
With any luck, they’ll start trying to guess who
 we are.
If we get famous enough, the government can always get access and
 find out who we really are.
When that happens, we’ll be too entrenched to suffer much loss. People
 will be shocked that Demosthenes and Locke are two kids, but they’ll already
 be used to listening to us.
We’re
 being read,
The ideas are seeping out.
The phrases, anyway.
That’s just the measure. Look, we’re having some influence. Nobody
 quotes us by name, yet, but they’re discussing the points we raise. We’re
 helping set the agenda. We’re getting there.
Should we try to get into the main debates?
No. We’ll wait until they ask us.
I can’t do a weekly column,
I don’t even have a
monthly period yet.
The two aren’t related,
They are to me. I’m still a kid.
Tell them yes, but since you prefer not to have your true identity
 revealed, you want them to pay you in network time. A new access code
 through their corporate identity.
So when the government traces me—
You’ll just be a person who can sign on through CalNet. Father’s
 citizen’s access doesn’t get involved. What I can’t figure out is why they
 wanted Demosthenes before Locke.
Talent rises to the top.
I thought the idea was to unify the world. If I write this like you say I
 should, Peter, I’m pretty much calling for war to break up the Warsaw Pact.
Not war, just open nets and prohibition of interception. Free flow of
 information. Compliance with the League rules, for heaven’s sake.
Everyone knows that from the beginning the Warsaw Pact was to be
 regarded as a single entity where those rules were concerned. International
 free flow is still open. But between the Warsaw Pact nations these things are
 internal matters. That was why they were willing to allow American
 hegemony in the League.
You’re arguing Locke’s part, Val. Trust me. You have to call for the
 Warsaw Pact to lose official status. You have to get a lot of people really
angry. Then, later, when you begin to recognize the need for compromise—
Then they stop listening to me and go off and fight a war.
Val, trust me. I know what I’m doing.
How do you know? You’re not any smarter than me, and you’ve never
 done this before either.
I’m thirteen and you’re ten.
Almost eleven.
And I know how these things work.
All right, I’ll do it your way. But I won’t do any of these liberty or
 death things.
You will too.
And someday when they catch us and they wonder why your sister was
 such a warmonger. I can just bet you’ll tell them that you told me to do it.
Are you sure you’re not having a period, little woman?
I hate you, Peter Wiggin.
Finally, a man with some sense,
It’s fine to
 work with these hegemonist Russians with the buggers out there, but after we
 win, I can’t see leaving half the civilized world as virtual helots, can you,
 dear?
I think you’re taking this all too seriously,
I like this Demosthenes. I like the way he thinks. I’m surprised he isn’t
 in the major nets. I looked for him in the international relations debates and
 you know, he’s never taken part in any of them.
So you don’t like lying to Father.
So what? You’re not lying
 to him. He doesn’t think that you’re really Demosthenes, and Demosthenes
 isn’t saying things you really believe. They cancel each other out, they
 amount to nothing.
That’s the kind of reasoning that makes Locke such an ass.
Not bad for two kids who’ve only got about eight pubic
 hairs between them,
It’s a long way between writing a newsnet column and ruling the
 world,
It’s such a long way that no one has ever
 done it.
They have, though. Or the moral equivalent. I’m going to say snide
 things about Demosthenes in my first column.
Well, Demosthenes isn’t even going to notice that Locke exists. Ever.
For now.
All
 work and no play makes Jack a dull boy,
If you think I should
 stop, I think I might be able to keep things under control this time. I really
 do.
No, no,
I don’t want you to stop. Just be careful, that’s
 all.
I’m careful, Mom.
Nova! Nova! Nova!
Sorry, Ender,
I was there, too, you know,
Whether he likes it or not, Demosthenes cannot
 remain incognito forever. He has outraged too many wise men and pleased
 too many fools to hide behind his too-appropriate pseudonym much longer.
 Either he will unmask himself in order to assume leadership of the forces of
 stupidity he has marshaled, or his enemies will unmask him in order to better
 understand the disease that has produced such a warped and twisted mind.
You’re Valentine Wiggin,
Yes,
I’m Colonel Graff. We’ve met before.
I’ve come to talk to you in confidence, about your brother.
Valentine, you seem frightened. There’s no need to be. Please, sit
 down. I assure you that your brother is well. He has more than fulfilled our
 expectations.
How do you feel about your brother, Valentine?
Ender?
Of course.
How can I feel about him? I haven’t seen him or heard from him since I
 was eight.
Dr. Lineberry, will you excuse us?
On second thought, Dr. Lineberry, I think Valentine and I will have a
 much more productive conversation if we walk outside. Away from the
 recording devices that your assistant principal has placed in this room.
Cheap,
but effective. I thought you knew.
Valentine, we need your help for Ender.
What kind of help?
We aren’t even sure of that. We need you to help us figure out how you
 can help us.
Well, what’s wrong?
That’s part of the problem. We don’t know.
I haven’t seen him in three years!
 You’ve got him up there with you all the time!
Valentine, it costs more money than your father will make in his
 lifetime for me to fly to Earth and back to the Battle School again. I don’t
 commute casually.
The king had a dream,
but he forgot what it was, so
 he told his wise men to interpret the dream or they’d die. Only Daniel could
 interpret it, because he was a prophet.
You read the Bible?
We’re doing classics this year in advanced English. I’m not a prophet.
I wish I could tell you everything about Ender’s situation. But it would
 take hours, maybe days, and afterward I’d have to put you in protective
 confinement because so much of it is strictly confidential. So let’s see what
 we can do with limited information. There’s a game that our students play
 with the computer.
It’s the computer that puts the picture there, not Ender. Why not ask the
 computer?
The computer doesn’t know.
I’m supposed to know?
This is the second time since Ender’s been with us that he’s taken this
 game to a dead end. To a game that seems to have no solution.
Did he solve the first one?
Eventually.
Then give him time, he’ll probably solve this one.
I’m not sure. Valentine, your brother is a very unhappy little boy.
Why?
I don’t know.
You don’t know much, do you?
No, not much. Valentine, why would Ender
 keep seeing your brother Peter in the mirror?
He shouldn’t. It’s stupid.
Why is it stupid?
Because if there’s ever anybody who was the opposite of Ender, it’s
 Peter.
How?
You’re preparing to lie to me,
I’m preparing not to talk to you anymore,
And you’re afraid. Why are you afraid?
I don’t like questions about my family. Just leave my family out of
 this.
Valentine, I’m trying to leave your family out of this. I’m coming to
 you so I don’t have to start a battery of tests on Peter and question your
 parents. I’m trying to solve this problem now, with the person Ender loves
 and trusts most in the world, perhaps the only person he loves and trusts at
 all. If we can’t solve it this way, then we’ll sequester your family and do as
 we like from then on. This is not a trivial matter, and I won’t just go away.
I never thought you were a nice man. Not
 when you came to take Ender away, and not now.
Don’t pretend to be an ignorant little girl. I saw your tests when you
 were little, and at the present moment there aren’t very many college
 professors who could keep up with you.
Ender and Peter hate each other.
I knew that. You said they were opposites. Why?
Peter—can be hateful sometimes.
Hateful in what way?
Mean. Just mean, that’s all.
Valentine, for Ender’s sake, tell me what he does when he’s being
 mean.
He threatens to kill people a lot. He doesn’t mean it. But when we were
 little, Ender and I were both afraid of him. He told us he’d kill us. Actually,
 he told us he’d kill Ender.
We monitored some of that.
It was because of the monitor.
Is that all? Tell me more about Peter.
Did he do this with Ender?
Are you sure? Didn’t Ender have a weak place? A thing he feared
 most, or that he was ashamed of?
Ender never did anything to be ashamed of.
Why are you crying?
Ender
 never gave in,
To what?
To Peter. To being like Peter.
How would Ender ever be like Peter?
I already told you.
But Ender never did that kind of thing. He was just a little boy.
We both wanted to, though. We both wanted to kill Peter.
Ah.
No, that isn’t true. We never said it, Ender never said that he wanted to
 do that. I just—thought it. It was me, not Ender. He never said that he wanted
 to kill him.
What did he want?
He just didn’t want to be—
To be what?
Peter tortures squirrels. He stakes them out on the ground and skins
 them alive and sits and watches them until they die. He did that, he doesn’t
 do it now. But he did it. If Ender knew that, if Ender saw him, I think that
 he’d—
He’d what? Rescue the squirrels? Try to heal them?
No, in those days you didn’t undo what Peter did. You didn’t cross
 him. But Ender would be kind to squirrels. Do you understand? He’d feed
 them.
But if he fed them, they’d become tame, and that much easier for Peter
 to catch.
No matter what you do, it always helps
 Peter. Everything helps Peter, everything, you just can’t get away, no matter
 what.
Are you helping Peter?
Is Peter such a very bad person, Valentine?
Is Peter the worst person in the world?
How can he be? I don’t know. He’s the worst person I know.
And yet you and Ender are his brother and sister. You have the same
 genes, the same parents, how can he be so bad if—
Ender is not like Peter! He is not like Peter in any way! Except that he’s
 smart, that’s all—in every other way a person could possibly be like Peter he
 is nothing nothing nothing like Peter! Nothing!
I see,
I know what you’re thinking, you bastard, you’re thinking that I’m
 wrong, that Ender’s like Peter. Well maybe I’m like Peter, but Ender isn’t, he
 isn’t at all, I used to tell him that when he cried, I told him that lots of times,
 you’re not like Peter, you never like to hurt people, you’re kind and good and
 not like Peter at all!
And it’s true.
Damn right it’s true. It’s true.
Valentine, will you help Ender?
I can’t do anything for him now.
It’s really the same thing you always did for him before. Just comfort
 him and tell him that he never likes to hurt people, that he’s good and kind
 and not like Peter at all, That’s the most important thing. That he’s not like
 Peter at all.
I can see him?
No. I want you to write a letter.
What good does that do? Ender never answered a single letter I sent.
He answered every letter he got.
You really stink.
Isolation is—the optimum environment for creativity. It was his ideas
 we wanted, not the—never mind, I don’t have to defend myself to you.
But he’s slacking off. He’s coasting. We want to push him forward, and
 he won’t go.
Maybe I’d be doing Ender a favor if I told you to go stuff yourself.
You’ve already helped me. You can help me more. Write to him.
Promise you won’t cut out anything I write.
I won’t promise any such thing.
Then forget it.
No problem. I’ll write your letter myself. We can use your other letters
 to reconcile the writing styles. Simple matter.
I want to see him.
He gets his first leave when he’s eighteen.
You told him it would be when he was twelve.
We changed the rules.
Why should I help you!
Don’t help me. Help Ender. What does it matter if that helps us, too?
What kind of terrible things are you doing to him up there?
Valentine, my dear little girl, the terrible things are
 only about to begin.
Dear
 Valentine,
We thank you and commend you for your efforts on
 behalf of the war effort. You are hereby notified that you have been awarded
 the Star of the Order of the League of Humanity, First Class, which is the
 highest military award that can be given to a civilian. Unfortunately, I.F.
 security forbids us to make this award public until after the successful
 conclusion of current operations, but we want you to know that your efforts
 resulted in complete success. Sincerely, General Shimon Levy, Strategos.
I was
 instructed to let you read it, and then destroy it.
Was
 it good or bad news?
I sold my brother,
and they paid me for it.
That’s a bit melodramatic, isn’t it, Valentine?
The most
 noble title any child can have,
is Third.
That’ll make them sit up and
 take notice. Third! A noble title! Oh, you have a wicked streak.
Now?
I suppose so.
 “It has to be an order, Colonel Graff. Armies don’t move
 because a commander says ‘I suppose it’s time to attack.’
I’m not a commander. I’m a teacher of little children.
Colonel, sir, I admit I was on you, I admit I was a pain in
 the ass, but it worked, everything worked just like you
 wanted it to. The last few weeks Ender’s even been, been—
Happy.
Content. He’s doing well. His mind is keen, his play is
 excellent. Young as he is. we’ve never had a boy better
 prepared for command. Usually they go at eleven. but at nine
 and a half he’s top flight.
Well, yes. For a few minutes there, it actually occurred to
 me to wonder what kind of a man would heal a broken child of
 some of his hurt, just so he could throw him back into
 battle again. A little private moral dilemma. Please
 overlook it. I was tired.
Saving the world, remember?
Call him in.
We’re doing what must be done, Colonel Graff.
Come on, Anderson, you’re just dying to see how he handles
 all those rigged games I had you work out.
That’s a pretty low thing to—
So I’m a low kind of guy. Come on, Major. We’re both the
 scum of the earth. I’m dying to see how he handles them,
 too. After all, our lives depend on him doing real well.
 Neh?
You’re not starting to use the boys’ slang, are you?
Call him in, Major. I’ll dump the rosters into his files
 and give him his security system. What we’re doing to him
 isn’t all bad, you know. He gets his privacy again.
Isolation, you mean.
The loneliness of power. Go call him in.
Yes sir. I’ll be back with him in fifteen minutes.
Good-bye. Yes sir yessir yezzir. I hope you had fun, I hope
 you had a nice, nice time being happy, Ender. It might be
the last time in your life. Welcome, little boy. Your dear
 Uncle Graff has plans for you.
I’ve never heard of Dragon Army,
That’s because there hasn’t been a Dragon Army in four years. We
 discontinued the name because there was a superstition about it. No Dragon
 Army in the history of the Battle School ever won even a third of its games. It
 got to be a joke.
Well, why are you reviving it now?
We had a lot of extra uniforms to use up.
It only works,
during your regularly scheduled practice sessions.
We’re
 doing something unusual with Dragon Army. I hope you don’t mind. We’ve
 assembled a new army by advancing the equivalent of an entire launch course
 early and delaying the graduation of quite a few advanced students. I think
 you’ll be pleased with the quality of your soldiers. I hope you are, because
 we’re forbidding you to transfer any of them.
No trades?
None. You see, you have been conducting your extra practice sessions
 for three years now. You have a following. Many good soldiers would put
 unfair pressure on their commanders to trade them into your army. We’ve
 given you an army that can, in time, be competitive. We have no intention of
 letting you dominate unfairly.
What if I’ve got a soldier I just can’t get along with?
Get along with him.
Bunking will be arranged by seniority.
 Veterans to the back of the room, newest soldiers to the front.
We’re on the morning schedule, straight to
 practice after breakfast. Officially you have a free hour between breakfast and
 practice. We’ll see what happens after I find out how good you are.
But I’m naked!
Dress faster next time. Three minutes from first call to running out the
 door—that’s the rule this week. Next week the rule is two minutes. Move!
Assemble on the far wall,
As if you were going for the
 enemy’s gate.
You can use a side handhold if you want,
Go suck on it,
Why are you
 upside down, soldiers?
Attention!
I said why are you upside down!
I said why does every one of you have his feet in the air and his head
 toward the ground!
Sir, this is the direction we were in coming
 out of the door.
Well what difference is that supposed to make! What difference does it
 make what the gravity was back in the corridor! Are we going to fight in the
 corridor? Is there any gravity here?
From now on, you forget about gravity before you go through that
 door. The old gravity is gone, erased. Understand me? Whatever your gravity
 is when you get to the door, remember—the enemy’s gate is down. Your feet
 are toward the enemy’s gate. Up is toward your own gate. North is that way,
 south is that way, east is that way, west is—what way?
That’s what I expected. The only process you’ve mastered is the
 process of elimination, and the only reason you’ve mastered that is because
 you can do it in the toilet. What was the circus I saw out here! Did you call
 that forming up? Did you call that flying? Now everybody, launch and form
 up on the ceiling! Right now! Move!
You!
Which way is down?
Toward the enemy door.
Name, kid?
This soldier’s name is Bean, sir.
Get that for size or for brains?
Well,
 Bean, you’re right onto things. Now listen to me, because this matters.
 Nobody’s going to get through that door without a good chance of getting hit.
 In the old days, you had ten, twenty seconds before you even had to move.
 Now if you aren’t already streaming out of the door when the enemy comes
 out, you’re frozen. Now, what happens when you’re frozen?
Can’t move,
That’s what frozen means,
But what happens to you?
You
 keep going in the direction you started in. At the speed you were going when
 you were flashed.
That’s true. You five, there on the end, move!
The
 next five, move!
Look at these so-called soldiers,
Their commander
ordered them to move, and now look at them. Not only are they frozen,
 they’re frozen right here, where they can get in the way. While the others,
 because they moved when they were ordered, are frozen down there,
 plugging up the enemy’s lanes, blocking the enemy’s vision. I imagine that
 about five of you have understood the point of this. And no doubt Bean is one
 of them. Right, Bean?
Right, sir.
Then what is the point?
When you are ordered to move, move fast, so if you get iced you’ll
 bounce around instead of getting in the way of your own army’s operations.
Excellent. At least I have one soldier who can figure things out.
Keep your body straight,
How much of his body could
 you shoot?
Mostly all I can hit is his feet.
What about you?
I can see his body.
And you?
All of him.
Feet aren’t very big. Not much protection.
What do you see?
I can see fine,
Stop me!
Try
 and flash me!
Now,
which way is the enemy’s gate?
Down!
And what is our attack position?
Is Bean the only one who knows how?
Now, what are your legs good for, in combat?
Bean doesn’t think so,
They’re the best way to push off walls.
Right,
There is no combat without movement,
Now, with your legs frozen like this, can you
 push off walls?
Bean?
I’ve never tried it, but maybe if you faced the wall and doubled over at
 the waist—
Right but wrong. Watch me. My back’s to the wall, legs are frozen.
 Since I’m kneeling, my feet are against the wall. Usually, when you push off
 you have to push downward, so you string out your body behind you like a
 string bean, right?
But with my legs frozen, I use pretty much the same force, pushing
 downward from the hips and thighs, only now it pushes my shoulders and my
 feet backward, shoots out my hips, and when I come loose my body’s tight,
 nothing stringing out behind me. Watch this.
Shoot me!
That’s what we’re
 working on for the first half hour today. Build up some muscles you didn’t
 know you had. Learn to use your legs as a shield and control your movements
 so you can get that spin. Spinning doesn’t do any good up close, but far
 away, they can’t hurt you if you’re spinning—at that distance the beam has to
 hit the same spot for a couple of moments, and if you’re spinning it can’t
 happen. Now freeze yourself and get started.
Aren’t you going to assign lanes?
No I’m not going to assign lanes. I want you bumping into each other
 and learning how to deal with it all the time, except when we’re practicing
 formations, and then I’ll usually have you bump into each other on purpose.
 Now move!
Ho, Bean.
Ho, Ender.
Sir,
I know what you’re doing, Ender, sir, and I’m warning you.
Warning me?
I can be the best man you’ve got, but don’t play games with me.
Or what?
Or I’ll be the worst man you’ve got. One or the other,
And what do you want, love and kisses?
I want a toon.
Why
 should you get a toon?
Because I’d know what to do with it.
Knowing what to do with a toon is easy,
It’s getting them
 to do it that’s hard. Why would any soldier want to follow a little pinprick
 like you?
They used to call you that, I hear. I hear Bonzo Madrid still does.
I asked you a question, soldier.
I’ll earn their respect, if you don’t stop me.
I’m helping you.
Like hell,
Nobody would notice you, except to feel sorry for the little kid. But I
 made sure they all noticed you today. They’ll be watching every move you
 make. All you have to do to earn their respect now is be perfect.
So I don’t even get a chance to learn before I’m being judged.
Poor kid. Nobody’s treatin’ him fair.
I’ll tell you how to get a toon. Prove to me you know what
 you’re doing as a soldier. Prove to me you know how to use other soldiers.
 And then prove to me that somebody’s willing to follow you into battle. Then
 you’ll get your toon. But not bloody well until.
That’s fair. If you actually work that way, I’ll be a toon
 leader in a month.
When I say I work a certain way, Bean, then that’s the
 way I work.
There has been a rule
 change, Ender. From now on, only members of the same army may work
 together in a battleroom during freetime. And, therefore, battlerooms are
 available only on a scheduled basis. After tonight, your next turn is in four
 days.
Nobody else is holding extra practices.
They are row, Ender. Now that you command another army, they don’t
 want their boys practicing with you. Surely you can understand that. So
 they’ll conduct their own practices.
I’ve always been in another army from them. They still sent their
 soldiers to me for training.
You weren’t commander then.
You gave me a completely green army, Major Anderson, sir—
You have quite a few veterans.
They aren’t any good.
Nobody gets here without being brilliant, Ender. Make them good.
I needed Alai and Shen to—
It’s about time you grew up and did some things on your own, Ender.
 You don’t need these other boys to hold your hand. You’re a commander
now. So kindly act like it, Ender.
Since these evening practices are now regularly
 scheduled, does it mean I can use the hook?
We’ll see,
You’ll never win that way.
Missed you at practice, Alai.
I was there. But they had your army in a separate place. Looks like
 you’re big time now, can’t play with the little boys anymore.
You’re a full cubit taller than I am.
Cubit! Has God been telling you to build a boat or something? Or are
 you in an archaic mood?
Not archaic, just arcane. Secret, subtle, roundabout. I miss you already,
 you circumcised dog.
Don’t you know? We’re enemies now. Next time I meet you in battle,
 I’ll whip your ass.
You can try,
I taught you everything you know. But I
 didn’t teach you everything I know.
I knew all along that you were holding something back, Ender.
 A pause. Ender’s bear was in trouble on the screen. He climbed a tree. “I
 wasn’t, Alai. Holding anything back.
I know.
Neither was I.
Salaam, Alai.
Alas, it is not to be.
What isn’t?
Peace. It’s what salaam means. Peace be unto you.
You can’t be serious about this schedule of battles.
Yes I can.
He’s only had his army three and a half weeks.
I told you. We did computer simulations on probable
 results. And here is what the computer estimated Ender would
 do.
We want to teach him, not give him a nervous breakdown.
The computer knows him better than we do.
The computer is also not famous for having mercy.
If you wanted to be merciful, you should have gone to a
 monastery.
You mean this isn’t a monastery?
This is best for Ender, too. We’re bringing him to his full
 potential.
I thought we’d give him two years as commander. We usually
 give them a battle every two weeks, starting after three
 months. This is a little extreme.
Do we have two years to spare?
I know. I just have this picture of Ender a year from now.
 Completely useless, worn out, because he was pushed farther
 than he or any living person could go.
We told the computer that our highest priority was having
 the subject remain useful after the training program.
Well, as long as he’s useful—
Look, Colonel Graff, you’re the one who made me prepare
 this, over my protests, if you’ll remember.
I know, you’re right, I shouldn’t burden you with my
 conscience. But my eagerness to sacrifice little children in
 order to save mankind is wearing thin. The Polemarch has
 been to see the Hegemon. It seems Russian intelligence is
 concerned that some of the active citizens on the nets are
 already figuring how America ought to use the I.F. to
 destroy the Warsaw Pact as soon as the buggers are
 destroyed.
Seems premature.
It seems insane. Free speech is one thing, but to
 jeopardize the League over nationalistic rivalries—and it’s
 for people like that, short-sighted, suicidal people, that
we’re pushing Ender to the edge of human endurance.
I think you underestimate Ender.
But I fear that I also underestimate the stupidity of the
 rest of mankind. Are we absolutely sure that we ought to win
 this war?
Sir, those words sound like treason.
It was black humor.
It wasn’t funny. When it comes to the buggers, nothing—
Nothing is funny, I know.
We have a battle with Rabbit Army at 0700. I want us warmed up in
 gravity and ready to go. Strip down and get to the gym. Bring your flash suits
 and we’ll go to the battleroom from there.
I don’t want anybody throwing up in the battleroom.
No more than a deciliter.
Don’t wear
 yourselves out, just wake yourselves up.
Rabbit Army is mostly veterans, but Carn Carby
 was made their commander only five months ago, and I never fought them
under him. He was a pretty good soldier, and Rabbit has done fairly well in
 the standings over the years. But I expect to see formations, and so I’m not
 worried.
Which way is the enemy’s gate?
Spread to the near stars,
C try to slide the wall. If it works, A and F will follow. If it
 doesn’t, I’ll decide from there. I’ll be with D. Move.
How about flipping
 off the north wall and kneeling on their faces?
Do it.
I’ll take B south to get behind them.
A and E slow on the walls!
It’s
 0715,
and that means you have fifteen minutes for breakfast
 before I see you all in the battleroom for the morning practice.
And you have your commander’s permission to throw
 food at each other during breakfast.
Good first battle,
Dragon Army did all right against the Rabbits. But the enemy isn’t
 always going to be that bad. If that had been a good army, C toon, your
 approach was so slow they would have had you from the flanks before you
 got into good position. You should have split and angled in from two
 directions, so they couldn’t flank you. A and E, your aim was wretched. The
 tallies show that you averaged only one hit for every two soldiers. That
 means most of the hits were made by attacking soldiers close in. That can’t
 go on—a competent enemy would cut up the assault force unless they have
 much better cover from the soldiers at a distance. I want every toon to work
 on distance marksmanship at moving and unmoving targets. Half-toons take
 turns being targets. I’ll thaw the flash suits every three minutes. Now move.
Will we have any stars to work with?
To steady our
 aim?
I don’t want you to get used to having something to steady your arms.
 If your arm isn’t steady, freeze your elbows! Now move!
Mind if I sit?
Ho Dink,
Sit.
You gold-plated fart,
We’re all trying to decide
 whether your scores up there are a miracle or a mistake.
A habit,
One victory is not a habit,
Don’t get cocky. When you’re
 new they seed you against weak commanders.
Carn Carby isn’t exactly on the bottom of the rankings.
He’s OK,
considering that he only just started. Shows
 some promise. You don’t show promise. You show threat.
Threat to what? Do they feed you less if I win? I thought you told me
 this was all a stupid game and none of it mattered.
You were the one who got me playing along with them. But
 I’m not playing games with you, Ender. You won’t beat me.
Probably not,
I taught you,
Everything I know,
I’m just playing it by ear right now.
 “Congratulations,
It’s good to know I have a friend here.
Right now I’m in disgrace,
They won’t
 believe me when I tell them you did things that nobody’s ever seen before. So
 I hope you beat the snot out of the next army you fight. As a favor to me.
As a favor to you,
And thanks for talking to me.
I think they’re treating you pretty badly. Usually new commanders are
 cheered when they first join the mess. But then, usually a new commander
 has had a few defeats under his belt before he first makes it in here. I only got
 in here a month ago. If anybody deserves a cheer, it’s you. But that’s life.
 Make them eat dust.
I’ll try.
Gentlemen, I hope you learned something yesterday, because today
 we’re doing it again.
Flash suits
Why didn’t you tell us earlier?
I thought you needed the shower,
Yesterday Rabbit
 Army claimed we only won because the stink knocked them out.
Didn’t find the paper till you got back from the showers, right?
Of course,
I’m not as close to the floor
 as you are.
 More laughter. Bean flushed with anger.
 “It’s plain we can’t count on old ways of doing things.
So
 you’d better plan on battles anytime. And often. I can’t pretend I like the way
 they’re screwing around with us, but I do like one thing—that I’ve got an
 army that can handle it.
Are some of those from the same battle?
Colonel Graff wishes to
 see you in his office immediately.
Seven days since your first battle, Ender,
And you’ve won seven battles, once a day.
Your scores are unusually high, too.
To what, commander, do you attribute your remarkable success?
You gave me an army that does whatever I can think for it to do.
And what have you thought for it to do?
We orient downward toward the enemy gate and use our lower legs as
 a shield. We avoid formations and keep our mobility. It helps that I’ve got
 five toons of eight instead of four of ten. Also, our enemies haven’t had time
 to respond effectively to our new techniques, so we keep beating them with
 the same tricks. That won’t hold up for long.
So you don’t expect to keep winning.
Not with the same tricks.
Sit down, Ender.
What condition is your army in, fighting so often?
They’re all veterans now.
But how are they doing? Are they tired?
If they are, they won’t admit it.
Are they still alert?
You’re the ones with the computer games that play with people’s
 minds. You tell me.
We know what we know. We want to know what you know.
These are very good soldiers, Major Anderson. I’m sure they have
 limits, but we haven’t reached them yet. Some of the newer ones are having
 trouble because they never really mastered some basic techniques, but they’re
 working hard and improving. What do you want me to say, that they need to
 rest? Of course they need to rest. They need a couple of weeks off. Their
 studies are shot to hell, none of us are doing any good in our classes. But you
 know that, and apparently you don’t care, so why should I?
Ender, why are you studying
 the videos of the bugger wars?
To learn strategy, of course.
Those videos were created for propaganda purposes. All our strategies
 have been edited out.
I know.
You don’t play the fantasy game anymore,
Tell me why you don’t play it.
Because I won.
You never win everything in that game. There’s always more.
I won everything.
Ender, we want to help you be as happy as possible, but if you—
You want to make me the best soldier possible. Go down and look at
 the standings. Look at the all-time standings. So far you’re doing an excellent
 job with me. Congratulations. Now when are you going to put me up against
 a good army?
Now,
That’s ten minutes from now,
My army will be in the
 middle of showering up after practice.
Better hurry, then, boy.
This one’s hot and there’s no time,
They gave Bonzo
 notice about twenty minutes ago, and by the time we get to the door they’ll
 have been inside for a good five minutes at least.
Forget why, we’ll worry about that tonight. Are you tired?
We worked our butts off in practice today. Not to
 mention beating the crap out of Ferret Army this morning.
Same day nobody ever do two battles!
Nobody ever beat Dragon Army,
 either. This be your big chance to lose?
Move!
My heart,
they haven’t come out yet, either.
Move!
I thought you were going to put us against an army
 that could match us in a fair fight.
Congratulations on the victory, commander.
Bean!
If you had commanded Salamander Army,
 what would you have done?
Keep a shifting pattern of movement going in
 front of the door. You never hold still when the enemy knows exactly where
 you are.
 “As long as you’re cheating,
why don’t you
 train the other army to cheat intelligently!
I suggest that you remobilize your army,
Dragon Army
 dismissed!
Come in,
Just saw your message.
Fine,
It’s near lights out.
I’ll help you find your way in the dark.
I just didn’t know if you knew what time it was—
I always know what time it is.
Remember four weeks ago, Bean? When you told me to make you a
 toon leader?
Eh.
I’ve made five toon leaders and five assistants since then. And none of
 them was you.
Was I right?
Yes, sir.
So tell me how you’ve done in these eight battles.
Today was the first time they disabled me, but the computer listed me
 as getting eleven hits, before I had to stop. I’ve never had less than five hits
 in a battle. I’ve also completed every assignment I’ve been given.
Why did they make you a soldier so young, Bean?
No younger than you were.
But why?
I don’t know.
Yes you do, and so do I.
I’ve tried to guess, but they’re just guesses. You’re—very good. They
 knew that, they pushed you ahead—
Tell me why, Bean.
Because they need us, that’s why.
Because they need somebody to beat the buggers.
 That’s the only thing they care about.
It’s important that you know that, Bean. Because most boys in this
 school think the game is important for itself—but it isn’t. It’s only important
 because it helps them find kids who might grow up to be real commanders, in
 the real war. But as for the game, screw that. That’s what they’re doing.
 Screwing up the game.
Funny. I thought they were just doing it to us.
A game nine weeks earlier than it should have come. A game every
 day. And now two games in the same day. Bean, I don’t know what the
 teachers are doing, but my army is getting tired, and I’m getting tired, and
 they don’t care at all about the rules of the game. I’ve pulled the old charts up
 from the computer. No one has ever destroyed so many enemies and kept so
 many of his own soldiers whole in the history of the game.
You’re the best, Ender.
Maybe. But it was no accident that I got the
 soldiers I got. Launchies, rejects from other armies, but put them together and
 my worst soldier could be a toon leader in another army. They’ve loaded
 things my way, but now they’re loading it all against me. Bean, they want to
 break us down.
They can’t break you.
You’d be surprised.
Maybe you’ll be surprised,
There’s a limit to how many clever new ideas I can come up with every
 day. Somebody’s going to come up with something to throw at me that I
 haven’t thought of before, and I won’t be ready.
What’s the worst that could happen? You lose one game.
Yes. That’s the worst that could happen. I can’t lose any games.
 Because if I lose any—
I need you to be clever, Bean. I need you to think of solutions to
 problems we haven’t seen yet. I want you to try things that no one has ever
tried because they’re absolutely stupid.
Why me?
Because even though there are some better soldiers than you in Dragon
 Army—not many, but some—there’s nobody who can think better and faster
 than you.
Choose five of these,
One from each toon.
 They’re a special squad, and you’ll train them. Only during the extra practice
 sessions. Talk to me about what you’re training them to do. Don’t spend too
 long on any one thing. Most of the time you and your squad will be part of
 the whole army, part of your regular toons. But when I need you. When
 there’s something to be done that only you can do.
These are all new,
No veterans.
After last week, Bean, all our soldiers are veterans. Don’t you realize
 that on the individual soldier standings, all forty of our soldiers are in the top
 fifty? That you have to go down seventeen places to find a soldier who isn’t a
 Dragon?
What if I can’t think of anything?
Then I was wrong about you.
You weren’t wrong.
Can you find your way back, Bean?
Probably not.
Then stay here. If you listen very carefully you can hear the good fairy
 come in the night and leave our assignment for tomorrow.
They won’t give us another battle tomorrow, will they?
General Pace, please sit down. I understand you have come
 to me about a matter of some urgency.
Ordinarily, Colonel Graff, I would not presume to interfere
 in the internal workings of the Battle School. Your autonomy
 is guaranteed, and despite our difference in ranks I am
 quite aware that it is my authority only to advise, not to
 order, you to take action.
Action?
Do not be disingenuous with me, Colonel Graff. Americans
 are quite apt at playing stupid when they choose to, but I
 am not to be deceived. You know why I am here.
Ah. I guess this means Dap filed a report?
He feels paternal toward the students here. He feels your
 neglect of a potentially lethal situation is more than
 negligence—that it borders on conspiracy to cause the death
 or serious injury of one of the students here.
This is a school for children, General Pace. Hardly a
 matter to bring the chief of I.F. military police here for.
Colonel Graff, the name of Ender Wiggin has percolated
 through the high command. It has even reached my ears—I have
 heard him described modestly as our only hope of victory in
 the upcoming invasion. When it is his life or health that is
 in danger, I do not think it untoward that the military
 police take some interest in preserving and protecting the
 boy. Do you?
Damn Dap and damn you too, sir, I know what I’m doing.
Do you?
Better than anyone else.
Oh, that is obvious, since nobody else has the faintest
 idea what you’re doing. You have known for eight days that
 there is a conspiracy among some of the more vicious of
 these ‘children’ to cause the beating of Ender Wiggin, if
 they can. And that some members of this conspiracy, notably
 the boy named Bonito de Madrid, commonly called Bonzo, are
 quite likely to exhibit no self-restraint when this
 punishment takes place, so that Ender Wiggin, an inestimably
 important international resource, will be placed in serious
 danger of having his brains pasted on the walls of your
 simple orbiting schoolhouse. And you, fully warned of this
 danger, propose to do exactly—
Nothing.
You can see how this excites our puzzlement.
Ender Wiggin has been in this situation before. Back on
 Earth, the day he lost his monitor, and again when a large
 group of older boys—
I did not come here ignorant of the past. Ender Wiggin has
 provoked Bonzo Madrid beyond human endurance. And you have
 no military police standing by to break up disturbances. It
 is unconscionable.
When Ender Wiggin holds our fleets in his control, when he
 must make the decisions that bring us victory or
 destruction, will there be military police to came save him
 if things get out of hand?
I fail to see the connection.
Obviously. But the connection is there Ender Wiggin must
 believe that no matter what happens, no adult will ever,
 ever step in to help him in any way. He must believe, to the
 core of his soul, that he can only do what he and the other
 children work out for themselves. If he does not believe
 that, then he will never reach the peak of his abilities.
He will also not reach the peak of his abilities if he is
 dead or permanently crippled.
He won’t be.
Why don’t you simply graduate Bonzo? He’s old enough.
Because Ender knows that Bonzo plans to kill him. If we
 transfer Bonzo ahead of schedule, he’ll know that we saved
 him. Heaven knows Bonzo isn’t a good enough commander to be
 promoted on merit.
What about the other children? Getting them to help him?
We’ll see what happens. That is my first, final, and only
 decision.
God help you if you’re wrong.
God help us all if I’m wrong.
I’ll have you before a capital court martial. I’ll have
 your name disgraced throughout the world if you’re wrong.
Fair enough. But do remember if I happen to be right to
 make sure I get a few dozen medals.
For what?
For keeping you from meddling.
Hook it to a handhold and wind it around a
 few times.
Did you see how fast I went! Did you see how I
 changed direction!
Ho, Ender!
Ender, can I talk to you?
Walk
 with me,
It’s just for a moment.
All right, I’ll walk with you.
A friend of yours wanted me to warn you. There are some boys who
 want to kill you.
Surprise,
Ender, they can do it. He said they’ve been planning it ever since you
 went commander.
Ever since I beat Salamander, you mean.
I hated you after you beat Phoenix Army, too, Ender.
I didn’t say I blamed anybody.
It’s true. He told me to take you aside today and warn you, on the way
 back from the battleroom, to be careful tomorrow because—
Petra, if you had actually taken me aside just now, there are about a
 dozen boys following along who would have taken me in the corridor. Can
 you tell me you didn’t notice them?
No. I didn’t. How can you think I did?
Don’t you know who your friends are?
Is it true?
Is what true?
That some of the older boys want to kill you?
All talk,
It may be all talk, but I hope you’ll understand when I say you’ve got
 five toon leaders who are going to escort you to your room tonight.
Completely unnecessary.
Humor us. You owe us a favor.
I owe you nothing.
Do as you
 want.
I’m
 glad you won. If I ever beat you, Ender, I want to do it fair.
Use what they give you,
If you’ve ever got an advantage
 over the enemy, use it.
Oh, I did,
I’m only fair-minded before and
 after battles.
Today you know
 everything. No practice. Get some rest. Have some fun. Pass a test.
Ho,
Your move,
This is no game,
We’re tired of you, Ender. You
 graduate today. On ice.
Bonzo,
Your father would be proud of you.
He would love to see you now, come to fight a naked boy in a shower,
 smaller than you, and you brought six friends. He would say, Oh, what
 honor.
Nobody came to fight you,
We just came to talk you
 into playing fair with the games. Maybe lose a couple now and then.
Be proud, Bonito, pretty boy. You can go home and tell your father,
 Yes, I beat up Ender Wiggin, who was barely ten years old, and I was
 thirteen. And I had only six of my friends to help me, and somehow we
 managed to defeat him, even though he was naked and wet and alone—Ender
 Wiggin is so dangerous and terrifying it was all we could do not to bring two
 hundred.
Shut your mouth, Wiggin,
We didn’t come to hear the little bastard talk,
You shut up,
Shut up and stand out of the way.
Naked and wet and alone, Ender, so we’re
 even. I can’t help that I’m bigger than you. You’re such a genius, you figure
 out how to handle me.
Watch the door. Don’t let
 anyone else in.
I’m not afraid of hot water,
Stop it!
Stop it, Bonzo!
Don’t hurt him!
Why not?
Because he’s the best, that’s why! Who else can fight the buggers!
 That’s what matters, you fool, the buggers!
If you touch him you’re a buggerlover!
You’re a traitor,
 if you touch him you deserve to die!
Bonzo,
 don’t hurt me,
Please.
My God!
Come on out of here,
Are you hurt
 anywhere?
You took him apart. I thought you were dead meat, the way he grabbed
 you. But you took him apart. If he’d stood up longer, you would’ve killed
 him.
He meant to kill me.
I know it. I know him. Nobody hates like Bonzo. But not anymore. If
 they don’t ice him for this and send him home, he’ll never look you in the eye
 again. You or anybody. He had twenty centimeters on you, and you made
 him look like a crippled cow standing there chewing her cud.
They’ll ice him, though,
Everybody knows he started it. I
 saw them get up and leave the commanders’ mess. Took me a couple of
 seconds to realize you weren’t there, either, and then a minute more to find
 out where you had gone. I told you not to be alone.
Sorry.
They’re bound to ice him. Troublemaker. Him and his stinking honor.
Are you all right?
I didn’t want to hurt him!
Why didn’t he just leave me
 alone!
I can’t do this.
Those sons of bitches,
Two at once?
Two armies!
They’ll just trip over each other,
I’ve got to clean up,
Get them ready, get everybody
 together, I’ll meet you there, at the gate.
Two farteating armies! We’ll whip their
 butts!
Bean,
Take your boys and tell me what’s on the other
 side of this star.
It’s really dim,
but light enough you can’t follow people
 easily by the lights on their suits. Worst possible for seeing. It’s all open
 space from this star to the enemy side of the room. They’ve got eight stars
 making a square around their door. I didn’t see anybody except the ones
 peeking around the boxes. They’re just sitting there waiting for us.
Hey! We be hungry, come and feed us! Your ass is draggin’! Your ass
 is Dragon!
In a real
 war, any commander with brains at all would retreat and save his army.
What the hell,
It’s only a game.
It stopped being a game when they threw away the rules.
So, you throw ’em away, too.
OK. Why not, Let’s see how they react to a formation.
A formation! We’ve never done a formation in the
 whole time we’ve been an army!
We’ve still got a month to go before our training period is normally
 supposed to end. About time we started doing formations. Always have to
 know formations,
We outnumber him two to one
Sit tight and
 we can’t lose, move out and he can figure out a way to beat us.
Doobie doe,
They’re doing a formation.
They must have been putting that together for all five minutes,
If we’d attacked while they were doing it, we could’ve destroyed
 them.
Eat it, Momoe,
You saw the way that little kid flew.
 He went all the way around the star and back behind without ever touching a
 wall. Maybe they’ve all got hooks, did you think of that? They’ve got
 something new there.
The back of that sucker is open,
As soon as they get
 between the stars, we can get around behind—
Don’t talk about it, do it!
Ender,
I beat you again, sir,
Nonsense, Ender,
Your battle was with Griffin
 and Tiger.
How stupid do you think I am?
After that little maneuver, the rules are being
 revised to require that all of the enemy’s soldiers must be frozen or disabled
 before the gate can be reversed.
It could only work once anyway,
Hey!
What is it next time? My army in a cage without guns, with
 the rest of the Battle School against them? How about a little equality?
Ender, if you’re on one side of the battle, it won’t be equal no matter what
 the conditions are.
Ender Wiggin!
Practice tonight?
Tomorrow morning then?
No.
Well, when?
Never again, as far as I’m concerned.
Hey, that’s not fair,
It’s not our fault the
 teachers are screwing up the game. You can’t just stop teaching us stuff
 because—
I
 don’t care about the game anymore!
Do you understand that?
The game is over.
Go away,
Go away, Bean.
You’re transferred?
To Rabbit Army.
Carn Carby’s a good man,
I
 hope he recognizes what you’re worth.
Carn Carby was graduated today. He got his notice while we were
 fighting our battle.
Well, who’s commanding Rabbit then?
Me.
Of course. After all, you’re
 only four years younger than the regular age.
It isn’t funny. I don’t know what’s going on here. All the changes in
 the game. And now this. I wasn’t the only one transferred, you know. They
 graduated half the commanders, and transferred a lot of our guys to command
 their armies.
Which guys?
It looks like—every toon leader and every assistant.
Of course. If they decide to wreck my army, they’ll cut it to the ground.
 Whatever they’re doing, they’re thorough.
You’ll still win, Ender. We all know that. Crazy Tom, he said, ‘You
 mean I’m supposed to figure out how to beat Dragon Army?’ Everybody
 knows you’re the best. They can’t break you down, no matter what they—
They already have.
No, Ender, they can’t—
I don’t care about their game anymore, Bean. I’m not going to play it
 anymore. No more practices. No more battles. They can put their little slips
 of paper on the floor all they want, but I won’t go. I decided that before I
 went through the door today. That’s why I had you go for the gate. I didn’t
 think it would work, but I didn’t care. I just wanted to go out in style.
You should’ve seen William Bee’s face. He just stood there trying to
 figure out how he had lost when you only had seven boys who could wiggle
 their toes and he only had three who couldn’t.
Why should I want to see William Bee’s face? Why should I want to
 beat anybody?
I hurt Bonzo
 really bad today, Bean. I really hurt him bad.
He had it coming.
I knocked him out standing up. It was like he was dead, standing there.
 And I kept hurting him.
I just wanted to make sure he never hurt me again.
He won’t,
They sent him home.
Already?
The teachers didn’t say much, they never do. The official notice says
 he was graduated, but where they put the assignment—you know, tactical
 school, support, precommand, navigation, that kind of thing—it just said
 Cartagena, Spain. That’s his home.
I’m glad they graduated him.
Hell, Ender, we’re just glad he’s gone. If we’d known what he was
 doing to you, we would’ve killed him on the spot. Was it true he had a whole
 bunch of guys gang up on you?
No. It was just him and me. He fought with honor.
I didn’t fight with honor,
I fought to win.
And you did. Kicked him right out of orbit.
Ender Wiggin,
Yes sir.
Your display of temper in the battleroom today was insubordinate and
 is not to be repeated.
Yes sir,
I think it was about time somebody told a teacher how we felt
 about what you’ve been doing.
Graduated?
What took them so long?
 You’re only two or three years early. You’ve already learned how to walk
 and talk and dress yourself. What will they have left to teach you?
All I know is, the game’s over.
None too soon. Can I tell my army?
There isn’t time,
Your shuttle leaves in twenty minutes.
 Besides, it’s better not to talk to them after you get your orders. It makes it
 easier.
For them or for you?
Wait,
Where are you going? Tactical? Navigational?
 Support?
Command School,
Pre-command?
Command,
Nobody
 goes to Command School until they’re sixteen!
Yes, he’s a
 colonel now,
In fact, Major Anderson has been placed in
command of the Battle School, as of this afternoon. I have been reassigned to
 other duties.
Why are we going home?
I thought Command School was in the asteroids somewhere.
It is,
But the Battle School has no facilities for docking
 long-range ships. So you get a short landside leave.
Arrested?
Well, it’s a natural thought. General Pace is the head of
 the military police. There was a death in the Battle
 School.
They didn’t tell me whether Colonel Graff was being
 promoted or court-martialed. Just transferred, with orders
 to report to the Polemarch.
Is that a good sign or bad?
Who knows? On the one hand, Ender Wiggin not only survived,
 he passed a threshold, he graduated in dazzlingly good
 shape, you have to give old Graff credit for that. On the
 other hand, there’s the fourth passenger on the shuttle. The
one traveling in a bag.
Only the second death in the history of the school. At
 least it wasn’t a suicide this time.
How is murder better, Major Imbu?
It wasn’t murder, Colonel. We have it on video from two
 angles. No one can blame Ender.
But they might blame Graff. After all this is over, the
 civilians can rake over our files and decide what was right
 and what was not. Give us medals where they think we were
 right, take away our pensions and put us in jail where they
 decide we were wrong. At least they had the good sense not
 to tell Ender that the boy died.
Its the second time, too.
They didn’t tell him about Stilson, either.
The kid is scary.
Ender Wiggin isn’t a killer. He just wins—thoroughly. If
 anybody’s going to be scared, let it be the buggers
Makes you almost feel sorry for them, knowing Ender’s going
 to be coming after them.
The only one I feel sorry for is Ender. But not sorry
 enough to suggest they ought to let up on him. I just got
 access to the material that Graff’s been getting all this
 time. About fleet movements, that sort of thing. I used to
 sleep easy at night.
Time’s getting short?
I shouldn’t have mentioned it. I can’t tell you secured
 information.
I know.
Let’s leave it at this: they didn’t get him to Command
 School a day too soon. And maybe a couple of years too
 late.
Children?
Brother and sister. They had layered themselves five times
 through the nets—writing for companies that paid for their
 memberships, that sort of thing. Devil of a time tracking
 them down.
What are they hiding?
Could be anything. The most obvious thing to hide, though,
 is their ages. The boy is fourteen, the girl is twelve.
Which one is Demosthenes?
The girl. The twelve-year-old.
Pardon me. I don’t really think it’s funny, but I can’t
 help but laugh. All this time we’ve been worried, all the
 time we’ve been trying to persuade the Russians not to take
 Demosthenes too seriously, we held up Locke as proof that
 Americans weren’t all crazy warmongers. Brother and sister,
 prepubescent—
And their last name is Wiggin.
Ah. Coincidence?
The Wiggin is a third. They are one and two.
Oh, excellent. The Russians will never believe—
That Demosthenes and Locke aren’t as much under our control
 as the Wiggin.
Is there a conspiracy? Is someone controlling them?
We have been able to detect no contact between these two
 children and any adult who might be directing them.
That is not to say that someone might not have invented
 some method you can’t detect. It’s hard to believe that two
 children—
I interviewed Colonel Graff when he arrived from the Battle
 School. It is his best judgment that nothing these children
 have done is out of their reach. Their abilities are
 virtually identical with—the Wiggin. Only their temperaments
 are different. What surprised him, however, was the
 orientation of the two personas. Demosthenes is definitely
 the girl, but Graff says the girl was rejected for Battle
 School because she was too pacific, too conciliatory, and
 above all, too empathic.
Definitely not Demosthenes.
And the boy has the soul of a jackal.
Wasn’t it Locke that was recently praised as ‘The only
 truly open mind in America’?
It’s hard to know what’s really happening. But Graff
 recommended, and I agree, that we should leave them alone.
 Not expose them. Make no report at this time except that we
 have determined that Locke and Demosthenes have no foreign
 connections and have no connections with any domestic group,
 either, except those publicly declared on the nets.
In other words, give them a clean bill of health,
I know Demosthenes seems dangerous, in part because he or
 she has such a wide following. But I think it’s significant
 that the one of the two of them who is most ambitious has
 chosen the moderate, wise persona. And they’re still just
 talking. They have influence, but no power.
In my experience, influence is power.
If we ever find them getting out of line, we can easily
 expose them.
Only in the next few years. The longer we wait, the older
 they get, and the less shocking it is to discover who they
 are.
You know what the Russian troop movements have been.
 There’s always the chance that Demosthenes is right. In
 which case—
We’d better have Demosthenes around. All right. We’ll show
 them clean, for now. But watch them. And I, of course, have
 to find ways of keeping the Russians calm.
See, it shows that the common man is paying attention
You write too much like
 Demosthenes, you can’t get published, I should kill Demosthenes now,
 you’re getting out of control.
Turn it down,
Why should I?
It’s no work at all, and they even said that
 because of Demosthenes’ well-known desire for privacy, they would net all
 the meetings. It makes Demosthenes into a respectable person, and—
And you love it that you got that before I did.
Peter, it isn’t you and me, it’s Demosthenes and Locke. We made them
 up. They aren’t real. Besides, this appointment doesn’t mean they like
 Demosthenes better than Locke, it just means that Demosthenes has a much
 stronger base of support. You knew he would. Appointing him pleases a large
 number of Russian-haters and chauvinists.
It wasn’t supposed to work this way. Locke was supposed to be the
 respected one.
He is! Real respect takes longer than official respect. Peter, don’t be
 angry at me because I’ve done well with the things you told me to do.
I won’t write another letter,
I never should have written that
 one.
 “You don’t like medals, then, I guess.
Not much.
Come for a ride with me, Valentine.
I don’t ride with strangers.
I guess you’re not a stranger. Where are we going?
To see a young soldier who is in Greensboro on leave.
Ender’s only ten years old,
I thought you
 told us the first time he’d be eligible for a leave was when he was twelve.
He skipped a few grades.
So he’s doing well?
Ask him when you see him.
Why me? Why not the whole family?
Ender sees the world his own way. We had to persuade
 him to see you. As for Peter and your parents, he was not interested. Life at
 the Battle School was—intense.
What do you mean, he’s gone crazy?
On the contrary, he’s the sanest person I know. He’s sane enough to
 know that his parents are not particularly eager to reopen a book of affection
 that was closed quite tightly four years ago. As for Peter—we didn’t even
 suggest a meeting, and so he didn’t have a chance to tell us to go to hell.
This is the
 house that Medly’s Mist-E-Rub built,
The I.F. picked it up in a
 tax sale about twenty years ago. Ender insisted that his conversation with you
 should not be bugged. I promised him it wouldn’t be, and to help inspire
 confidence, the two of you are going out on a raft he built himself. I should
 warn you, though. I intend to ask you questions about your conversation
 when it is finished. You don’t have to answer, but I hope you will.
I didn’t bring a swimming suit.
We can provide one.
One that isn’t bugged?
At some point, there must be trust. For instance, I know who
Demosthenes really is.
I’ve known since I landed from the Battle School, There are, perhaps,
 six of us in the world who know his identity. Not counting the Russians—
 God only knows what they know. But Demosthenes has nothing to fear from
 us. Demosthenes can trust our discretion. Just as I trust Demosthenes not to
 tell Locke what’s going on here today. Mutual trust. We tell each other
 things.
You said he built the raft. How long has be been here?
Two months. We meant his leave to last only a few days. But you see,
 he doesn’t seem interested in going on with his education.
Oh. So I’m therapy again.
This time we can’t censor your letter, We’re just taking our chances.
 We need your brother badly. Humanity is on the cusp.
Where is he?
Down at the boat slip.
Where’s the swimming suit?
You’re bigger than I remembered,
You too,
I also remembered that you were beautiful.
Memory does play tricks on us.
No. Your face is the same, but I don’t remember what beautiful means
 anymore. Come on. Let’s go out into the lake.
Don’t stand up on it, that’s all,
It’s the first thing I built with my own hands
 since you and I used to build with blocks. Peter-proof buildings.
Peter’s changed,
Let’s not talk about him,
All right.
The strong part comes from Battle School. The sunbrowning comes
 from this lake. I spend a lot of time on the water. When I’m swimming, it’s
 like being weightless. I miss being weightless. Also, when I’m here on the
 lake, the land slopes up in every direction.
Like living in a bowl.
I’ve lived in a bowl for four years.
So we’re strangers now?
Aren’t we, Valentine?
No,
Oh, yes,
You used to tickle me.
These are a nasty breed,
They sting you without waiting to be insulted first,
I’ve been
 learning about pre-emptive strategies. I’m very good. No one ever beat me.
 I’m the best soldier they ever had.
Who would expect less?
You’re a Wiggin.
Whatever that means,
It means that you are going to make a difference in the world.
How old is Peter, fourteen? Already planning to take over the world?
He thinks he’s Alexander the Great. And why shouldn’t he be? Why
 shouldn’t you be, too?
We can’t both be Alexander.
Two faces of the same coin. And I am the metal in between.
The trouble with coins is, when one face is up, the other face is down.
They want me to encourage you
 to go on with your studies.
They aren’t studies, they’re games. All games, from beginning to end,
 only they change the rules whenever they feel like it.
See the strings?
But you can use them, too.
Only if they want to be used. Only if they think they’re using you. No,
 it’s too hard, I don’t want to play anymore. Just when I start to be happy, just
 when I think I can handle things, they stick in another knife. I keep having
 nightmares, now that I’m here. I dream I’m in the battleroom, only instead of
 being weightless, they’re playing games with gravity. They keep changing its
 direction. So I never end up on the wall I launched for. I never end up where I
meant to go. And I keep pleading with them just to let me get to the door, and
 they won’t let me out, they keep sucking me back in.
I
 suppose that’s what I’m here for. To suck you back in.
I didn’t want to see you.
They told me.
I was afraid that I’d still love you.
I hoped that you would.
My fear, your wish—both granted.
Ender, it really is true. We may be young, but we’re not powerless. We
 play by their rules long enough, and it becomes our game.
I’m
 on a presidential commission. Peter is so angry.
They don’t let me use the nets. There isn’t a computer in the place,
 except the household machines that run the security system and the lighting.
 Ancient things. Installed back a century ago, when they made computers that
 didn’t hook up with anything. They took away my army, they took away my
 desk, and you know something? I don’t really mind.
You must be good company for yourself.
Not me. My memories.
Maybe that’s who you are, what you remember.
No. My memories of strangers. My memories of the buggers.
I refuse to
 watch the bugger vids anymore. They’re always the same.
 “I used to study them for hours. The way their ships move through
 space. And something funny, that only occurred to me lying out here on the
 lake. I realized that all the battles in which buggers and humans fought hand
 to hand, all those are from the First Invasion. All the scenes from the Second
 Invasion, when our soldiers are in I.F. uniforms, in those scenes the buggers
 are always already dead. Lying there, slumped over their controls. Not a sign
 of struggle or anything. And Mazer Rackham’s battle—they never show us
 any footage from that battle.
Maybe it’s a secret weapon.
No, no, I don’t care about how we killed them. It’s the buggers
themselves. I don’t know anything about them, and yet someday I’m
 supposed to fight them. I’ve been through a lot of fights in my life,
 sometimes games, sometimes—not games. Every time, I’ve won because I
 could understand the way my enemy thought. From what they did. I could tell
 what they thought I was doing, how they wanted the battle to take shape. And
 I played off of that. I’m very good at that. Understanding how other people
 think.
The curse of the Wiggin children.
You don’t think you
 can beat the buggers unless you know them.
It goes deeper than that. Being here alone with nothing to do, I’ve been
 thinking about myself, too. Trying to understand why I hate myself so badly.
No, Ender.
Don’t tell me ‘No, Ender.’ It took me a long time to realize that I did,
 but believe me, I did. Do. And it came down to this: In the moment when I
 truly understand my enemy, understand him well enough to defeat him, then
 in that very moment I also love him. I think it’s impossible to really
 understand somebody, what they want, what they believe, and not love them
 the way they love themselves. And then, in that very moment when I love
 them—
You beat them.
No, you don’t understand. I destroy them. I make it impossible for
 them to ever hurt me again. I grind them and grind them until they don’t
 exist.
Of course you don’t.
I’ve really hurt some people, Val. I’m not making this up.
I know, Ender.
See what I’m becoming, Val?
Even you are afraid of
 me.
I’m not,
You should be.
You’re going to shrivel up if you stay in the water.
 Also, the sharks might get you.
The sharks learned to leave me alone a long time ago.
Ender, Peter’s going to do it. He’s smart enough to take the time it
 takes, but he’s going to win his way into power—if not right now, then later.
 I’m not sure yet whether that’ll be a good thing or a bad thing. Peter can be
 cruel, but he knows the getting and keeping of power, and there are signs that
 once the bugger war is over, and maybe even before it ends, the world will
 collapse into chaos again. The Warsaw Pact was on its way to hegemony
 before the First Invasion. If they try for it afterward—
So even Peter might be a better alternative.
You’ve been discovering some of the destroyer in yourself, Ender.
 Well, so have I. Peter didn’t have a monopoly on that, whatever the testers
 thought. And Peter has some of the builder in him. He isn’t kind, but he
 doesn’t break every good thing he sees anymore. Once you realize that power
 will always end up with the sort of people who crave it, I think that there are
 worse people who could have it than Peter.
With that strong a recommendation, I could vote for him myself.
Sometimes it seems absolutely silly. A fourteen-year-old boy and his
 kid sister plotting to take over the world.
We aren’t just ordinary children, are we. None of us.
Don’t you sometimes wish we were?
It
 would be so dull.
I don’t think so.
What is the one name that everyone in the
 world knows?
Mazer Rackham.
And what if you win the next war, the way Mazer did?
Mazer Rackham was a fluke. A reserve. Nobody believed in him. He
 just happened to be in the right place at the right time.
But suppose you do it. Suppose you beat the buggers and your name is
 known the way Mazer Rackham’s name is known.
Let somebody else be famous. Peter wants to be famous. Let him save
 the world.
I’m not talking about fame, Ender. I’m not talking about power, either.
 I’m talking about accidents, just like the accident that Mazer Rackham
 happened to be the one who was there when somebody had to stop the
 buggers.
If I’m here,
then I won’t be there. Somebody else will.
 Let them have the accident.
I’m talking about my life,
 you self-centered little bastard.
When you were little and Peter tortured you, it’s
 a good thing I didn’t lie back and wait for Mom and Dad to save you. They
 never understood how dangerous Peter was. I knew you had the monitor, but
 I didn’t wait for them, either. Do you know what Peter used to do to me
 because I stopped him from hurting you?
Shut up,
I can’t beat them,
I’ll be out there like Mazer
Rackham one day, and everybody will be depending on me, and I won’t be
 able to do it.
If you can’t, Ender, then nobody could. If you can’t beat them, then
 they deserve to win because they’re stronger and better than us. It won’t be
 your fault.
Tell it to the dead.
If not you, then who?
Anybody.
Nobody, Ender. I’ll tell you something. If you try and lose then it isn’t
 your fault. But if you don’t try and we lose, then it’s all your fault. You killed
 us all.
I’m a killer no matter what.
What else should you be? Human beings didn’t evolve brains in order
 to lie around on lakes. Killing’s the first thing we learned. And a good thing
 we did, or we’d be dead, and the tigers would own the earth.
I could never beat Peter. No matter what I said or did. I never could.
He was years older than you. And stronger.
So are the buggers.
You want to beat Peter?
No,
Beat the buggers. Then come home and see who notices Peter Wiggin
 anymore. Look him in the eye when all the world loves and reveres you.
 That’ll be defeat in his eyes, Ender. That’s how you win.
You don’t understand,
Yes I do.
No you don’t. I don’t want to beat Peter.
Then what do you want?
I want him to love me.
I love you, Ender. More
 than ever. No matter what you decide.
Are we going now?
If you want to,
When?
When you’re ready.
Back when the population was
 growing,
they kept this area in woods and farms. Watershed
land. The rainfall here starts a lot of rivers flowing, a lot of underground
 water moving around. The Earth is deep, and right to the heart it’s alive,
 Ender. We people only live on the top, like the bugs that live on the scum of
 the still water near the shore.
We train our commanders the way we do because that’s what it takes—
 they have to think in certain ways. They can’t be distracted by a lot of things,
 so we isolate them. You. Keep you separate. And it works. But it’s so easy,
 when you never meet people, when you never know the Earth itself, when
 you live with metal walls keeping out the cold of space, it’s easy to forget
 why Earth is worth saving. Why the world of people might be worth the price
 you pay.
I may have used Valentine,
and you may hate me for it,
 Ender, but keep this in mind—it only works because what’s between you,
 that’s real, that’s what matters. Billions of those connections between human
 beings. That’s what you’re fighting to keep alive.
How far?
How far are you going with me?
All the way, Ender.
Are they making you administrator of Command School?
No.
It’s no great secret,
Whenever the destination
 is unknown, it’s for ISL.
This time it isn’t,
Where then?
I.F. Command.
I don’t have security clearance even to know where that is, sir.
Your ship knows,
Just let the computer have a look at
 this, and follow the course it plots.
And I’m supposed to close my eyes during the whole voyage, so I
 don’t figure out where we are?
Oh, no, of course not. I.F. Command is on the minor planet Eros, which
 should be about three months away from here at the highest possible speed.
Which is the speed you’ll use, of course.
Eros? But I thought that the buggers burned that to a radioactive—ah.
 When did I receive security clearance to know this?
You didn’t. So when we arrive at Eros, you will undoubtedly be
 assigned to permanent duty there.
I’m a pilot, you
 son of a bitch, and you got no right to lock me up on a rock!
I will overlook your derisive language to a superior officer. I do
 apologize, but my orders were to take the fastest available military tug. At the
 moment I arrived, that was you. It isn’t as though anyone were out to get you.
 Cheer up. The war may be over in another fifteen years, and then the location
 of I.F. Command won’t have to be a secret anymore. By the way, you should
 be aware, in case you’re one of those who relies on visuals for docking, that
 Eros has been blacked out. Its albedo is only slightly brighter than a black
 hole. You won’t see it.
Thanks,
We don’t know much,
We’ve never had a live one in
 custody. Even when we caught one unarmed and alive, he died the moment it
 became obvious he was captured. Even the he is uncertain—the most likely
 thing, in fact, is that most bugger soldiers are females, but with atrophied or
 vestigial sexual organs. We can’t tell. It’s their psychology that would be
 most useful to you, and we haven’t exactly had a chance to interview them.
Tell me what you know, and maybe I’ll learn something that I need.
But don’t be fooled by
 that,
It’s just as meaningful to say that our ancestors could
 easily have been very much like squirrels.
If that’s all we have to go on, that’s something,
Squirrels never built starships,
There are usually a few
 changes on the way from gathering nuts and seeds to harvesting asteroids and
 putting permanent research stations on the moons of Saturn.
Of course, we can’t be sure. But we can’t see any way
 that they could have used sound for communication. The oddest thing of all
 was that they also don’t have any communication devices on their ships. No
 radios, nothing that could transmit or receive any kind of signal.
They communicate ship to ship. I’ve seen the videos, they talk to each
 other.
True. But body to body, mind to mind. It’s the most important thing we
 learned from them. Their communication, however they do it, is
 instantaneous. Lightspeed is no barrier. When Mazer Rackham defeated their
 invasion fleet, they all closed up shop. At once. There was no time for a
 signal. Everything just stopped.
We knew then that it was possible to communicate faster than light.
 That was seventy years ago, and once we knew it could be done, we did it.
 Not me, mind you, I wasn’t born then.
How is it possible?
I can’t explain philotic physics to you. Half of it nobody understands
 anyway. What matters is we built the ansible. The official name is Philotic
 Parallax Instantaneous Communicator, but somebody dredged the name
 ansible out of an old book somewhere and it caught on. Not that most people
even know the machine exists.
That means that ships could talk to each other even when they’re across
 the solar system,
It means,
that ships could talk to each other even when
 they’re across the galaxy. And the buggers can do it without machines.
So they knew about their defeat the moment it happened,
I always figured—everybody always said that they probably only found out
 they lost the battle twenty five years ago.
It keeps people from panicking,
I’m telling you things
 that you can’t know, by the way, if you’re ever going to leave I.F. Command.
 Before the war’s over.
If you know me at all, you know I can keep a secret.
It’s a regulation. People under twenty-five are assumed to be a security
 risk. It’s very unjust to a good many responsible children, but it helps narrow
 the number of people who might let something slip.
What’s all the secrecy for, anyway?
Because we’ve taken some terrible risks, Ender, and we don’t want to
 have every net on earth second-guessing those decisions. You see, as soon as
 we had a working ansible, we tucked it into our best starships and launched
 them to attack the buggers home systems.
Do we know where they are?
Yes.
So we’re not waiting for the Third Invasion.
We are the Third Invasion.
We’re attacking them. Nobody says that. Everybody thinks we have a
 huge fleet of warships waiting in the comet shield—
Not one. We’re quite defenseless here.
What if they’ve sent a fleet to attack us?
Then we’re dead. But our ships haven’t seen such a fleet, not a sign of
 one.
Maybe they gave up and they’re planning to leave us alone.
Maybe. You’ve seen the videos. Would you bet the human race on the
 chance of them giving up and leaving us alone?
And the
 ships have been traveling for seventy years—
Some of them. And some for thirty years, and some for twenty. We
 make better ships now. We’re learning how to play with space a little better.
 But every starship that is not still under construction is on its way to a bugger
 world or outpost. Every starship, with cruisers and fighters tucked into its
 belly, is out there approaching the buggers. Decelerating. Because they’re
 almost there. The first ships we sent to the most distant objectives, the more
 recent ships to the closer ones. Our timing was pretty good. They’ll all be
 arriving in combat range within a few months of each other. Unfortunately,
 our most primitive, outdated equipment will be attacking their homeworld.
 Still, they’re armed well enough—we have some weapons the buggers never
 saw before.
When will they arrive?
Within the next five years. Ender. Everything is ready at I.F.
 Command. The master ansible is there, in contact with all our invasion fleet;
 the ships are all working, ready to fight. All we lack, Ender, is the battle
 commander. Someone who knows what the hell to do with those ships when
 they get there.
And what if no one knows what to do with them?
We’ll just do our best, with the best commander we can get.
Colonel
 Graff, there isn’t a chance I’ll be ready to command a fleet in time.
So. Do your best. If you aren’t ready, we’ll make do
 with what we’ve got.
Of course, Ender, what we’ve got right now is
 nobody.
I’ll only be
 fifteen in five years,
Going on sixteen,
It all depends on what you know.
Colonel Graff,
I just want to go back and swim in the lake.
After we win the war,
Or lose it. We’ll have a few
 decades before they get back here to finish us off. The house will be there,
 and I promise you can swim to your heart’s content.
But I’ll still be too young for security clearance.
We’ll keep you under armed guard at all times. The military knows
 how to handle these things.
Why are we fighting the buggers?
I’ve heard all kinds of reasons,
Because they have an
 overcrowded system and they’ve got to colonize. Because they can’t stand
 the thought of other intelligent life in the universe. Because they don’t think
 we are intelligent life. Because they have some weird religion. Because they
 watched our old video broadcasts and decided we were hopelessly violent.
 All kinds of reasons.
What do you believe?
It doesn’t matter what I believe.
I want to know anyway.
They must talk to each other directly, Ender, mind to mind. What one
 thinks, another can also think; what one remembers, another can also
 remember. Why would they ever develop language? Why would they ever
 learn to read and write? How would they know what reading and writing
 were if they saw them? Or signals? Or numbers? Or anything that we use to
 communicate? This isn’t just a matter of translating from one language to
 another. They don’t have a language at all. We used every means we could
 think of to communicate with them, but they don’t even have the machinery
 to know we’re signaling. And maybe they’ve been trying to think to us, and
 they can’t understand why we don’t respond.
So the whole war is because we can’t talk to each other.
If the other fellow can’t tell you his story, you can never be sure he
 isn’t trying to kill you.
What if we just left them alone?
Ender, we didn’t go to them first, they came to us. If they were going to
 leave us alone, they could have done it a hundred years ago, before the First
 Invasion.
Maybe they didn’t know we were intelligent life. Maybe—
Ender, believe me, there’s a century of discussion on this very subject.
 Nobody knows the answer. When it comes down to it, though, the real
 decision is inevitable: if one of us has to be destroyed, let’s make damn sure
 we’re the ones alive at the end. Our genes won’t let us decide any other way.
 Nature can’t evolve a species that hasn’t a will to survive. Individuals might
 be bred to sacrifice themselves, but the race as a whole can never decide to
 cease to exist. So if we can, we’ll kill every last one of the buggers, and if
 they can they’ll kill every last one of us.
As for me,
I’m in favor of surviving.
I know,
That’s why you’re here.
Took your time, didn’t you, Graff? The voyage isn’t short,
 but the three month vacation seems excessive.
I prefer not to deliver damaged merchandise.
Some men simply have no sense of hurry. Oh well, it’s only
 the fate of the world. Never mind me, You must understand
 our anxiety. We’re here with the ansible, receiving constant
 reports of the progress of our starships. We have to face
 the coming war every day. If you can call them days. He’s
 such a very little boy.
There’s greatness in him. A magnitude of spirit.
A killer instinct, too, I hope.
Yes.
We’ve planned out an impromptu course of study for him. All
 subject to your approval, of course.
I’ll look at it. I don’t pretend to know the subject
 matter, Admiral Chamrajnagar. I’m only here because I know
 Ender. So don’t be afraid that I’ll try to second guess the
 order of your presentation. Only the pace.
How much can we tell him?
Don’t waste his time on the physics of interstellar
 travel.
What about the ansible?
I already told him about that, and the fleets. I said they
 would arrive at their destination within five years.
It seems there’s very little left for us to tell him.
You can tell him about the weapons systems. He has to know
 enough to make intelligent decisions.
Ah. We can be useful after all, how very kind, We’ve
 devoted one of the five simulators to his exclusive use.
What about the others?
The other simulators?
The other children.
You were brought here to take care of Ender Wiggin.
Just curious. Remember, they were all my students at one
 time or another.
And now they are all mine. They are entering into the
 mysteries of the fleet, Colonel Graff, to which you, as a
soldier, have never been introduced.
You make it sound like a priesthood.
And a god. And a religion. Even those of us who command by
 ansible know the majesty of flight among the stars. I can
 see you find my mysticism distasteful. I assure you that
 your distaste only reveals your ignorance. Soon enough Ender
 Wiggin will also know what I know; he will dance the
 graceful ghost dance through the stars, and whatever
 greatness there is within him will be unlocked, revealed,
 set forth before the universe far all to see. You have the
 soul of a stone, Colonel Graff, but I sing to a stone as
 easily as to another singer. You may go to your quarters and
 establish yourself.
I have nothing to establish except the clothing I’m
 wearing.
You own nothing?
They keep my salary in an account somewhere on Earth. I’ve
 never needed it. Except to buy civilian clothes on my
 vacation.
A non-materialist. And yet you are unpleasantly fat. A
 gluttonous ascetic? Such a contradiction.
When I’m tense, I eat. Whereas when you’re tense, you spout
 solid waste.
I like you, Colonel Graff. I think we shall get along.
I don’t much care, Admiral Chamrajnagar. I came here for
 Ender. And neither of us came here for you.
Is that all the simulator does?
Is what all?
The way it plays now, It’s easy, and it hasn’t got any harder for a
 while.
Oh.
All right,
Why’s the door locked?
All right,
You win.
Since when,
do you have to tell the enemy when be has
 won?
I surprised you once, Ender Wiggin. Why didn’t you destroy the
 immediately afterward? Just because I looked peaceful? You turned your
 back on me. Stupid. You have learned nothing. You have never had a
 teacher.
I’ve had too many teachers, how was I supposed to know you’d turn out to
 be a—
Au enemy, Ender Wiggin,
I am your enemy,
 the first one you’ve ever had who was smarter than you. There is no teacher
 but the enemy. No one but the enemy will ever tell you what the enemy is
 going to do. No one but the enemy will ever teach you how to destroy and
 conquer. Only the enemy shows you where you are weak. Only the enemy
 tells you where he is strong. And the only rules of the game are what you can
 do to him and what you can stop him from doing to you. I am your enemy
 from now on. From now on I am your teacher.
Better, this time, boy. But slow. You will have to be
 better with a fleet than you are with your body or no one will be safe with
 you in command. Lesson learned?
Good,
Then we’ll never have to have such a battle
 again. All the rest with the simulator. I will program your battles now, not the
 computer; I will devise the strategy of your enemy, and you will learn to be
 quick and discover what tricks the enemy has for you. Remember, boy. From
 now on the enemy is more clever than you. From now on the enemy is
 stronger than you. From now on you are always about to lose.
You will be about to lose,
 Ender, but you will win. You will learn to defeat the enemy. He will teach
 you how.
In this school, it has always been the practice for a
 young student to be chosen by an older student. The two become
 companions, and the older boy teaches the younger one everything he knows.
 Always they fight, always they compete, always they are together. I have
 chosen you.
You’re too old to be a
 student.
One is never too old to be a student of the enemy. I have learned from
 the buggers. You will learn from me.
Teacher,
Do you have a name?
Mazer Rackham,
Why aren’t you dead?
You fought your battle
 seventy years ago. I don’t think you’re even sixty years old.
The miracles of relativity,
They kept me here for twenty
 years after the battle, even though I begged them to let me command one of
 the starships they launched against the bugger home planet and the bugger
 colonies. Then they—came to understand some things about the way soldiers
 behave in the stress of battle.
What things?
You’ve never been taught enough psychology to understand. Enough to
 say that they realized that even though I would never be able to command the
 fleet—I’d be dead before the fleet even arrived—I was still the only person
 able to understand the things I understood about the buggers. I was, they
 realized, the only person who had ever defeated the buggers by intelligence
 rather than luck. They needed me here to—teach the person who would
 command the fleet.
So they sent you out in a starship, got you up to a relativistic speed—
And then I turned around and came home. A very dull voyage, Ender.
Fifty years in space. Officially, only eight years passed for me, but it felt like
 five hundred. All so I could teach the next commander everything I knew.
Am I to be the commander, then?
Let’s say that you’re our best bet at present.
There are others being prepared, too?
No.
That makes me the only choice, then, doesn’t it?
Except you. You’re still alive, aren’t you? Why not you?
Why not? You won before.
I cannot be the commander for good and sufficient reasons.
Show me how you beat the buggers, Mazer.
You’ve shown me every other battle seven times at least. I think I’ve
 seen ways to beat what the buggers did before, but you’ve never shown me
 how you actually did beat them.
The video is a very tightly kept secret, Ender.
I know. I’ve pieced it together, partly. You, with your tiny reserve
 force, and their armada, those great big heavy-bellied starships launching
 their swarms of fighters. You dart in at one ship, fire at it, an explosion.
 That’s where they always stop the clips. After that, it’s just soldiers going
 into bugger ships and already finding them dead inside.
So much for tightly kept secrets. Come on, let’s watch
 the video.
All right, let’s watch.
We waited for three hours,
Nobody could believe it.
So you see,
you already knew all there was to see.
Why did it happen?
Nobody knows. I have my personal opinions. But there are plenty of
 scientists who tell me I’m less than qualified to have opinions.
You’re the one who won the battle.
I thought that qualified me to comment, too, but you know how it is.
 Xenobiologists and xenopsychologists can’t accept the idea that a starpilot
 scooped them by sheer guesswork. I think they all hate me because, after they
 saw these videos, they had to live out the rest of their natural lives here on
 Eros. Security, you know. They weren’t happy.
Tell me.
The buggers don’t talk. They think to each other, and it’s instantaneous
 like the philotic effect. Like the ansible. But most people always thought that
 meant a controlled communication like language—I think you a thought and
 then you answer me. I never believed that. It’s too immediate, the way they
 respond together to things. You’ve seen the videos. They aren’t conversing
 and deciding among possible courses of action. Every ship acts like part of a
 single organism. It responds the way your body responds during combat,
 different parts automatically, thoughtlessly doing everything they’re
 supposed to do. They aren’t having a mental conversation between people
 with different thought processes. All their thoughts are present, together, at
 once.
A single person, and each bugger is like a hand or a foot?
Yes. I wasn’t the first person to suggest it, but I was the first person to
 believe it. And something else. Something so childish and stupid that the
 xenobiologists laughed me to silence when I said it after the battle. The
 buggers are bugs. They’re like ants and bees. A queen, the workers. That was
 maybe a hundred million years ago, but that’s how they started, that kind of
 pattern. It’s a sure thing none of the buggers we saw had any way of making
more little buggers. So when they evolved this ability to think together,
 wouldn’t they still keep the queen? Wouldn’t the queen still be the center of
 the group? Why would that ever change?
So it’s the queen who controls the whole group.
I had evidence, too. Not evidence that any of them could see. it wasn’t
 there in the First Invasion, because that was exploratory. But the Second
 Invasion was a colony. To set up a new hive, or whatever.
And so they brought a queen.
The videos of the Second Invasion, when they were destroying our
 fleets out in the comet shell.
Show me the queen’s ship.
You see it. I see it. That makes two people out of all of those who have
 seen this video. But it’s true, isn’t it.
They make that ship move just like any other ship.
They know it’s their weak point.
But you’re right. That’s the queen. But then you’d think that when you
 went for it, they would have immediately focused all their power on you.
 They could have blown you out of the sky.
I know. That part I don’t understand. Not that they didn’t try to stop me
 —they were firing at me. But it’s as if they really couldn’t believe, until it
 was too late, that I would actually kill the queen. Maybe in their world,
 queens are never killed, only captured, only checkmated. I did something
 they didn’t think an enemy would ever do.
And when she died the others all died,
No, they just went stupid. The first ships we boarded, the buggers were
 still alive. Organically. But they didn’t move, didn’t respond to anything,
even when our scientists vivisected some of them to see if we could learn a
 few more things about buggers. After a while they all died. No will. There’s
 nothing in those little bodies when the queen is gone.
Why don’t they believe you?
Because we didn’t find a queen.
She got blown to pieces.
Fortunes of war. Biology takes second place to survival. But some of
 them are coming around to my way of thinking. You can’t live in this place
 without the evidence staring you in the face.
What evidence is there in Eros?
Ender, look around you. Human beings didn’t carve this place. We like
 taller ceilings, for one thing. This was the buggers’ advance post in the First
 Invasion. They carved this place out before we even knew they were here.
 We’re living in a bugger hive. But we already paid our rent. It cost the
 marines a thousand lives to clear them out of these honeycombs, room by
 room. The buggers fought for every meter of it.
I
 knew this wasn’t a human place.
This was the treasure trove. If they had known we would win that first
 war, they probably would never have built this place. We learned gravity
 manipulation because they enhanced the gravity here. We learned efficient
 use of stellar energy because they blacked out this planet. In fact, that’s how
 we discovered them. In a period of three days, Eros gradually disappeared
 from telescopes. We sent a tug to find out why. It found out. The tug
 transmitted its videos, including the buggers boarding and slaughtering the
 crew. It kept right on transmitting through the entire bugger examination of
 the boat. Not until they finally dismantled the entire tug did the transmissions
 stop. It was their blindness—they never had to transmit anything by machine,
 and so with the crew dead, it didn’t occur to them that anybody could be
 watching.
Why did they kill the crew?
Why not? To them, losing a few crew members would be like clipping
 your nails. Nothing to get upset about. They probably thought they were
 routinely shutting down our communications by turning off the workers
 running the tug. Not murdering living, sentient beings with an independent
genetic future. Murder’s no big deal to them. Only queen-killing, really, is
 murder, because only queen-killing closes off a genetic path.
So they didn’t know what they were doing.
Don’t start apologizing for them, Ender. Just because they didn’t know
 they were killing human beings doesn’t mean they weren’t killing human
 beings. We do have a right to defend ourselves as best we can, and the only
 way we found that works is killing the buggers before they kill us. Think of it
 this way. In all the bugger wars so far, they’ve killed thousands and
 thousands of living, thinking beings. And in all those wars, we’ve killed only
 one.
If you hadn’t killed the queen, Mazer, would we have lost the war?
I’d say the odds would have been three to two against us. I still think I
 could have trashed their fleet pretty badly before they burned us out. They
 have great response time and a lot of firepower, but we have a few
 advantages, too. Every single one of our ships contains an intelligent human
 being who’s thinking on his own. Every one of us is capable of coming up
 with a brilliant solution to a problem. They can only come up with one
 brilliant solution at a time. The buggers think fast, but they aren’t smart all
 over. But on our side, even when some incredibly timid and stupid
 commanders lost the major battles of the Second Invasion, some of their
 subordinates were able to do real damage to the bugger fleet.
What about when our invasion reaches them? Will we just get the
 queen again?
The buggers didn’t learn interstellar travel by being dumb. That was a
 strategy that could work only once. I suspect that we’ll never get near a queen
 unless we actually make it to their home planet. After all, the queen doesn’t
 have to be with them to direct a battle. The queen only has to be present to
 have little baby buggers. The Second invasion was a colony—the queen was
 coming to populate the Earth. But this time—no, that won’t work. We’ll have
 to beat them fleet by fleet. And because they have the resources of dozens of
 star systems to draw on, my guess is they’ll outnumber us by a lot, in every
 battle.
We’ve only got two things going for us, Ender. We don’t have to aim
 particularly well. Our weapons have great spread.
Then we aren’t using the nuclear missiles from the First and Second
 Invasions?
Dr. Device is much more powerful. Nuclear weapons, after all, were
 weak enough to be used on Earth at one time. The Little Doctor could never
 be used on a planet. Still, I wish I’d had one during the Second Invasion.
How does it work?
I don’t know, not well enough to build one. At the focal point of two
 beams, it sets up a field in which molecules can’t hold together anymore.
 Electrons can’t be shared. How much physics do you know, at that level?
We spend most of our time on astrophysics, but I know enough to get
 the idea.
The field spreads out in a sphere, but it gets weaker the farther it
 spreads. Except that where it actually runs into a lot of molecules, it gets
 stronger and starts over. The bigger the ship, the stronger the new field.
So each time the field hits a ship, it sends out a new sphere—
And if their ships are too close together, it can set up a chain that wipes
 them all out. Then the field dies down, the molecules come back together,
 and where you had a ship, you now have a lump of dirt with a lot of iron
 molecules in it. No radioactivity, no mess. Just dirt. We may be able to trap
 them close together on the first battle, but they learn fast. They’ll keep their
 distance from each other.
So Dr. Device isn’t a missile—I can’t shoot around corners.
 “That’s right. Missiles wouldn’t do any good now. We learned a lot
 from them in the First Invasion, but they also learned from us—how to set up
 the Ecstatic Shield, for instance.
The Little Doctor penetrates the shield?
As if it weren’t there. You can’t see through the shield to aim and focus
 the beams, but since the generator of the Ecstatic Shield is always in the exact
 center, it isn’t hard to figure it out.
Why haven’t I ever been trained with this?
You always have. We just let the computer tend to it for you. Your job
 is to get into a superior strategic position and choose a target. The shipboard
computers are much better at aiming the Doctor than you are.
Why is it called Dr. Device?
When it was developed, it was called a Molecular Detachment Device.
 M.D. Device.
M.D. The initials stand for Medical Doctor, too. M.D. Device,
 therefore Dr. Device. It was a joke.
But how do I control the ships?
You’ve
 reached the next phase of your training. You have experience in every level
 of strategy, but now it’s time for you to concentrate on commanding an entire
 fleet. As you worked with toon leaders in Battle School, so now you will
 work with squadron leaders. You have been assigned three dozen such
 leaders to train. You must teach them intelligent tactics; you must learn their
 strengths and limitations; you must make them into a whole.
When will they come here?
They’re already in place in their own simulators. You will speak to
 them through the headset. The new levers on your control panel enable you to
 see from the perspective of any of your squadron leaders. This more closely
 duplicates the conditions you might encounter in a real battle, where you will
 only know what your ships can see.
How can I work with squadron leaders I never see?
And why would you need to see them?
To know who they are, how they think—
You’ll learn who they are and how they think from the way they work
 with the simulator. But even so, I think you won’t be concerned. They’re
listening to you right now. Put on the headset so you can hear them.
Salaam,
Alai,
And me, the dwarf.
Bean.
I didn’t know you were here,
I didn’t
 know you were coming.
They’ve been flogging us through the simulator for three months now,
You’ll find that I’m by far the best tactician,
Dink tries,
 but he has the mind of a child.
This is what he saw as you attacked. What does it remind you of? The
 quickness of response, for instance?
We look like a bugger fleet.
You match them, Ender. You’re as fast as they are. And here—look at
 this.
The bugger hive-mind is very good, but it can only concentrate on a
 few things at once. All your squadrons can concentrate a keen intelligence on
 what they’re doing, and what they’ve been assigned to do is also guided by a
 clever mind. So you see that you do have some advantages. Superior, though
 not irresistible, weaponry; comparable speed and greater available
 intelligence. These are your advantages. Your disadvantage is that you will
 always, always be outnumbered, and after each battle your enemy will learn
 more about you, how to fight you, and those changes will be put into effect
 instantly.
So, Ender, we will now begin your education. We have programmed
 the computer to simulate the kinds of situations we might expect in
encounters with the enemy. We are using the movement patterns we saw in
 the Second Invasion. But instead of mindlessly following these same
 patterns, I will be controlling the enemy simulation. At first you will see easy
 situations that you are expected to win handily. Learn from them, because I
 will always be there, one step ahead of you, programming more difficult and
 advanced patterns into the computer so that your next battle is more difficult,
 so that you are pushed to the limit of your abilities.
And beyond?
The time is short. You must learn as quickly as you can. When I gave
 myself to starship travel, just so I would still be alive when you appeared, my
 wife and children all died, and my grandchildren were my own age when I
 came back. I had nothing to say to them. I was cut off from all the people that
 I loved, everything I knew, living in this alien catacomb and forced to do
 nothing of importance but teach student after student, each one so hopeful,
 each one, ultimately, a weakling, a failure. I teach, I teach, but no one learns.
 You, too, have great promise, like so many students before you, but the seeds
 of failure may be in you, too. It’s my job to find them, to destroy you if I can,
 and believe me, Ender, if you can be destroyed I can do it.
So I’m not the first.
No, of course you’re not. But you’re the last. If you don’t learn, there’ll
 be no time to find anyone else. So I have hope for you, only because you are
 the only one left to hope for.
What about the others? My squadron leaders?
Which of them is fit to take your place?
Alai.
Be honest.
I am not a happy man, Ender. Humanity does not ask us to be happy. It
 merely asks us to be brilliant on its behalf. Survival first, then happiness as
 we can manage it. So, Ender, I hope you do not bore me during your training
 with complaints that you are not having fun. Take what pleasure you can in
 the interstices of your work, but your work is first, learning is first, winning is
 everything because without it there is nothing. When you can give me back
 my dead wife, Ender, then you can complain to me about what this education
 costs you.
I wasn’t trying to get out of anything.
But you will, Ender. Because I am going to grind you down to dust, if I
 can. I’m going to hit you with everything I can imagine, and I will have no
 mercy, because when you face the buggers they will think of things I can’t
 imagine, and compassion for human beings is impossible for them.
You can’t grind me down, Mazer.
Oh, can’t I?
Because I’m stronger than you.
We’ll see about that, Ender.
Early to bed and
 early to rise,
makes a man stupid and blind in the eyes.
Alai, this is yours; assign Petra and Vlad to the
 fighters as you wish.
Slip the wall and get below them, Bean, unless they start chasing you—then
 run back to the reserves for safety. Otherwise, get in a place where I can call
 on you for quick results. Alai, form your force into a compact assault at one
 point in their globe. Don’t fire until I tell you. This is maneuver only.
This one’s easy, Ender,
It’s easy, so why not be careful? I’d like to do this without the loss of a
 single ship.
Go on in, Alai.
You know they’ll just let
 me through and surround me and eat me alive.
Just ignore that ship in the middle.
Whatever you say, boss.
Attack them there, where they’re most concentrated,
This defies four thousand years of military history,
We’re supposed to attack where we outnumber them.
In this simulation they obviously don’t know what our weapons can do.
It’ll only work once, but let’s make it spectacular. Fire at will.
Stay out of the way,
This is a simulation of a real
 invasion. There had to be one battle in which they didn’t know what we could
 do. Now your work begins. Try not to be too arrogant about the victory. I’ll
 give you the real challenges soon enough.
You cannot absorb losses!
When
 you get into a real battle you won’t have the luxury of an infinite supply of
 computer-generated fighters. You’ll have what you brought with you and
 nothing more. Now get used to fighting without unnecessary waste.
It wasn’t unnecessary waste, Ender said. “I can’t win battles if I’m so
 terrified of losing a ship that I never take any risks.
Excellent, Ender. You’re beginning to learn. But in a
 real battle, you would have superior officers and, worst of all, civilians
 shouting those things at you. Now, if the enemy had been at all bright, they
 would have caught you here, and taken Tom’s squadron.
You’re too kind to us,
Why don’t you get annoyed
 with us for not being brilliant every moment of every practice. If you keep
 coddling us like this we’ll think you like us.
Again,
and this time without
 self-pity.
You were calling out in your
 sleep,
Sorry,
Never mind. It’s time for another battle.
I think you’re cheating,
Oh?
You can observe my practice sessions. You can see what I’m working
 on. You seem to be ready for everything I do.
Most of what you see is computer simulations,
The
 computer is programmed to respond to your innovations only after you use
 them once in battle.
Then the computer is cheating.
You need to get more sleep, Ender.
Look at this,
You didn’t have to do
 this.
Sometimes we make mistakes,
And sometimes we don’t,
Tell him I’m sorry, I was just so tired, I couldn’t think, that
 was all, tell Ender I’m sorry.
Mazer!
I don’t care how much
 you eat, Ender, self-cannibalism won’t get you out of this school.
I was asleep,
I don’t want to get out of Command
 School.
Good.
The others. The ones who didn’t make it.
What are you talking about?
Before me. Your other students, who didn’t make it through the
training. What happened to them?
They didn’t make it. That’s all. We don’t punish the ones who fail.
 They just—don’t go on.
Like Bonzo.
Bonzo?
He went home.
Not like Bonzo.
What then? What happened to them? When they failed?
Why does it matter, Ender?
None of them failed at this point in their course, Ender. You made a
 mistake with Petra. She’ll recover. But Petra is Petra, and you are you.
Part of what I am is her. Is what she made me.
You won’t fail, Ender. Not this early in the course. You’ve had some
 tight ones, but you’ve always won. You don’t know what your limits are yet,
 but if you’ve reached them already you’re a good deal feebler than I
 thought.
Do they die?
Who?
The ones who fail.
No, they don’t die. Good heavens, boy, you’re playing games.
I think that Bonzo died. I dreamed about it last night. I remembered the
 way he looked after I jammed his face with my head. I think I must have
 pushed his nose back into his brain. The blood was coming out of his eyes. I
 think he was dead right then.
It was just a dream.
Mazer, I don’t want to keep dreaming these things. I’m afraid to sleep.
 I keep thinking of things that I don’t want to remember. My whole life keeps
 playing out as if I were a recorder and someone else wanted to watch the
 most terrible parts of my life.
We can’t drug you if that’s what you’re hoping for. I’m sorry if you
 have bad dreams. Should we leave the light on at night?
Don’t make fun of me!
I’m afraid I’m going crazy.
Are you really afraid of that?
In my dreams,
I’m never sure whether I’m really me.
Strange dreams are a safety valve, Ender. I’m putting you under a little
 pressure for the first time in your life. Your body is finding ways to
 compensate, that’s all. You’re a big boy now. It’s time to stop being afraid of
 the night.
All right,
Eat,
You know,
this game isn’t quite as fun as it used to be.
I’m awake,
So I see,
Took you long enough. You have a battle
 today.
You haven’t been kind to him.
That wasn’t the assignment.
How long can he go on? He’s breaking down.
Long enough. It’s nearly finished.
So soon?
A few days, and then he’s through.
How will he do, when he’s already like this?
Fine. Even today, he fought better than ever.
I can’t bear
 to see what this is doing to him.
I know. I
 love him too.
Are you awake, Ender?
Ender Wiggin,
Please turn around. Today’s game needs
 a little explanation.
Pay attention, please, Ender. Today is your final examination in
 Command School. These observers are here to evaluate what you have
 learned. If you prefer not to have them in the room, we’ll have them watch on
 another simulator.
They can stay.
For this to be a fair test of your ability, not just to do what you have
practiced many times, but also to meet challenges you have never seen
 before, today’s battle introduces a new element. It is staged around a planet.
 This will affect the enemy’s strategy, and will force you to improvise. Please
 concentrate on the game today.
Am I the first
 student to make it this far?
If you win today, Ender, you will be the first student to do so. More
 than that I’m not at liberty to say.
Well, I’m at liberty to hear it.
You can be as petulant as you want, tomorrow. Today, though, I’d
 appreciate it if you would keep your mind on the examination. Let’s not
 waste all that you’ve already done. Now, how will you deal with the planet?
I have to get someone behind it, or it’s a blind spot.
True.
And the gravity is going to affect fuel levels—cheaper to go down than
 up.
Yes.
Does the Little Doctor work against a planet?
Ender, the buggers never attacked a civilian
 population in either invasion. You decide whether it would be wise to adopt a
 strategy that would invite reprisals.
Is the planet the only new thing?
Can you remember the last time I’ve given you a battle with only one
 new thing? Let me assure you, Ender, that I will not be kind to you today. I
 have a responsibility to the fleet not to let a second-rate student graduate. I
 will do my best against you, Ender, and I have no desire to coddle you. Just
 keep in mind everything you know about yourself and everything you know
 about the buggers, and you have a fair chance of amounting to something.
Are you there?
All of us,
Kind of late for practice this morning, aren’t
 you?
Sorry,
I
 overslept.
Remember, the enemy’s
 gate is down.
Thank you, thank you Ender. Thank God for you, Ender.
You made the hard choice, boy. All or nothing. End them or end us.
 But heaven knows there was no other way you could have done it.
 Congratulations. You beat them, and it’s all over.
I beat you.
Ender, you never played me. You never played a game since I became
 your enemy.
Ender, for the past few months you have
 been the battle commander of our fleets. This was the Third Invasion. There
 were no games, the battles were real, and the only enemy you fought was the
 buggers. You won every battle, and today you finally fought them at their
 home world, where the queen was, all the queens from all their colonies, they
 all were there and you destroyed them completely. They’ll never attack us
 again. You did it. You.
Ender, we need to talk to you,
They’ve been playing out the videos on Earth all day, all night since
 the battle yesterday.
Yesterday?
You’re a hero. Ender. They’ve seen what you did. You and the others. I
 don’t think there’s a government on Earth that hasn’t voted you their highest
 medal.
I killed them all, didn’t I?
All who?
The buggers? That was the idea.
That’s what the war was for.
All their queens. So I killed all their children, all of everything.
They decided that when they attacked us. It wasn’t your fault. It’s what
 had to happen.
I didn’t want to kill them all. I didn’t want to kill
 anybody! I’m not a killer! You didn’t want me, you bastards, you wanted
 Peter, but you made me do it, you tricked me into it!
Of course we tricked you into it. That’s the whole point,
It had to be a trick or you couldn’t have done it. It’s the bind we were in. We
 had to have a commander with so much empathy that he would think like the
 buggers, understand them and anticipate them. So much compassion that he
 could win the love of his underlings and work with them like a perfect
 machine, as perfect as the buggers. But somebody with that much
 compassion could never be the killer we needed. Could never go into battle
 willing to win at all costs. If you knew, you couldn’t do it. If you were the
kind of person who would do it even if you knew, you could never have
 understood the buggers well enough.
And it had to be a child, Ender,
You were faster than me.
 Better than me. I was too old and cautious. Any decent person who knows
 what warfare is can never go into battle with a whole heart. But you didn’t
 know. We made sure you didn’t know. You were reckless and brilliant and
 young. It’s what you were born for.
We had pilots with our ships, didn’t we.
Yes.
I was ordering pilots to go in and die and I didn’t even know it.
They knew it, Ender, and they went anyway. They knew what it was
 for.
You never asked me! You never told me the truth about anything!
You had to be a weapon, Ender. Like a gun, like the Little Doctor,
 functioning perfectly but not knowing what you were aimed at. We aimed
 you. We’re responsible. If there was something wrong, we did it.
Tell me later,
Don’t go to sleep, Ender,
It’s
 very important.
You’re finished with me,
Now leave me alone.
That’s why we’re here.
We’re trying to tell you. They’re
 not through with you, not at all, it’s crazy down there. They’re going to start
 a war, Americans claiming the Warsaw Pact is about to attack, and the Pact
 saying the same thing about the Hegemon. The bugger war isn’t twenty-four
 hours dead and the world down there is back to fighting again, as bad as ever.
 And all of them are worried about you. And all of them want you. The
 greatest military leader in history, they want you to lead their armies. The
 Americans. The Hegemon. Everybody but the Warsaw Pact, and they want
 you dead.
Fine with me,
We have to take you away from here. There are Russian marines all
 over Eros, and the Polemarch is Russian. It could turn to bloodshed at any
 time.
I was afraid of this, Rackham. You pushed him too hard. Some of those
 lesser outposts could have waited until after. You could have given him some
 days to rest.
Are you doing it, too, Graff? Trying to decide how I could have done it
 better? You don’t know what would have happened if I hadn’t pushed.
 Nobody knows. I did it the way I did it, and it worked. Above all, it worked.
 Memorize that defense, Graff. You may have to use it, too.
Sorry.
I can see what it’s done to him. Colonel Liki says there’s a good chance
 he’ll be permanently damaged, but I don’t believe it. He’s too strong.
 Winning meant a lot to him, and he won.
Don’t tell me about strong. The kid’s eleven. Give him some rest,
 Rackham. Things haven’t exploded yet. We can post a guard outside his
 door.
Or post a guard outside another door and pretend that it’s his.
Whatever.
Get the lights on,
Ender, it’s me, it’s me!
Alai.
Salaam, pinprick. What were you trying to do, kill me?
Yes. I thought you were trying to kill me.
I was trying not to wake you up. Well, at least you have some survival
 instinct left. The way Mazer talks about it, you were becoming a vegetable.
I was trying to. What’s the thumping.
There’s a war going on here. Our section is blacked out to keep us
 safe.
Don’t sit up, Ender. It’s all right. It looks like we might win it. Not all
 the Warsaw Pact people went with the Polemarch. A lot of them came over
 when the Strategos told them you were loyal to the I.F.
I was asleep.
So he lied. You weren’t plotting treason in your dreams, were you?
 Some of the Russians who came in told us that when the Polemarch ordered
 them to find you and kill you, they almost killed him. Whatever they may feel
 about other people, Ender, they love you. The whole world watched our
 battles. Videos, day and night. I’ve seen some. Complete with your voice
 giving the orders. It’s all there, nothing censored. Good stuff. You’ve got a
 career in the vids.
I don’t think so,
I was joking. Hey, can you believe it? We won the war. We were so
 eager to grow up so we could fight in it, and it was us all the time. I mean,
 we’re kids. Ender. And it was us.
It was you, anyway. You
 were good, bosh. I didn’t know how you’d get us out of that last one. But you
 did. You were good.
What am I now,
 Alai?
Still good.
At what?
At—anything. There’s a million soldiers who’d follow you to the end
 of the universe.
I don’t want to go to the end of the universe.
So where do you want to go? They’ll follow you.
Listen to that,
It’s over,
Ho, Bean,
Ho, Ender.
Hey, the hero’s awake,
Who won?
We did, Ender,
You were there.
He’s not that crazy, Bean. He meant who won just now.
There was a truce on Earth. They’ve been negotiating for
 days. They finally agreed to accept the Locke Proposal.
He doesn’t know about the Locke Proposal—
It’s very complicated, but what it means here is that the I.F. will stay in
 existence, but without the Warsaw Pact in it. So the Warsaw Pact marines are
 going home. I think Russia agreed to it because they’re having a revolt of the
 Slavic helots. Everybody’s got troubles. About five hundred died here, but it
 was worse on Earth.
The Hegemon resigned,
It’s crazy down there. Who
 cares.
You OK?
You scared us. They
 said you were crazy, and we said they were crazy.
I’m crazy,
But I think I’m OK.
When did you decide that?
When I thought you were about to kill me, and I decided to kill you
 first. I guess I’m just a killer to the core. But I’d rather be alive than dead.
I missed you,
I
 wanted to see you so bad.
You saw us pretty bad,
I saw you magnificent,
The ones I needed most, I used up
 soonest. Bad planning on my part.
Everybody’s OK now,
Nothing was wrong with any of us
 that five days of cowering in blacked-out rooms in the middle of a war
 couldn’t cure.
I don’t have to be your commander anymore, do I?
I
 don’t want to command anybody again.
You don’t have to command anybody,
but you’re always
 our commander.
So what do we do now?
The bugger war’s over, and so’s
 the war down there on Earth, and even the war here. What do we do now?
We’re kids,
They’ll probably make us go to school. It’s a
 law. You have to go to school till you’re seventeen.
You’ve lost weight.
One kind of stress puts it on, another takes it off. I’m a creature of
 chemicals.
It must have been hard.
Not really. I knew I’d be acquitted.
Some of us weren’t so sure. People were crazy for a while there.
 Mistreatment of children, negligent homicide—those videos of Bonzo’s and
 Stilson’s deaths were pretty gruesome. To watch one child do that to
 another.
As much as anything, I think the videos saved me. The prosecution
 edited them, but we showed the whole thing. It was plain that Ender was not
 the provocateur. After that, it was just a second-guessing game. I said I did
 what I believed was necessary for the preservation of the human race, and it
 worked; we got the judges to agree that the prosecution had to prove beyond
 doubt that Ender would have won the war without the training we gave him.
 After that, it was simple. The exigencies of war.
Anyway, Graff, it was a great relief to us. I know we quarreled, and I
 know the prosecution used tapes of our conversations against you. But by
 then I knew that you were right, and I offered to testify for you.
I know, Anderson. My lawyers told me.
So what will you do now?
I don’t know. Still relaxing. I have a few years of leave accrued.
 Enough to take me to retirement, and I have plenty of salary that I never used,
 sitting around in banks. I could live on the interest. Maybe I’ll do nothing.
It sounds nice. But I couldn’t stand it. I’ve been offered the presidency
 of three different universities, on the theory that I’m an educator. They don’t
 believe me when I say that all I ever cared about at the Battle School was the
game. I think I’ll go with the other offer.
Commissioner?
Now that the wars are over, it’s time to play games again. It’ll be
 almost like vacation, anyway. Only twenty-eight teams in the league. Though
 after years of watching those children flying, football is like watching slugs
 bash into each other.
That raft. Surely you can’t float on it.
Ender built it.
That’s right. This is where you took him.
It’s even been deeded over to him. I saw to it that he was amply
 rewarded. He’ll have all the money he ever needs.
If they ever let him come back to use it.
They never will.
With Demosthenes agitating for him to come home?
Demosthenes isn’t on the nets anymore.
What does that mean?
Demosthenes has retired. Permanently.
You know something, you old farteater. You know who Demosthenes
 is.
Was.
Well, tell me!
No.
You’re no fun anymore, Graff.
I never was.
At least you can tell me why. There were a lot of us who thought
 Demosthenes would be Hegemon someday.
There was never a chance of that. No, even Demosthenes’ mob of
 political cretins couldn’t persuade the Hegemon to bring Ender back to Earth.
 Ender is far too dangerous.
He’s only eleven. Twelve, now.
All the more dangerous because he could so easily be controlled. In all
the world, the name of Ender is one to conjure with. The child-god, the
 miracle worker, with life and death in his hands. Every petty tyrant-to-be
 would like to have the boy, to set him in front of an army and watch the
 world either flock to join or cower in fear. If Ender came to Earth, he’d want
 to come here, to rest, to salvage what he can of his childhood. But they’d
 never let him rest.
I see. Someone explained that to Demosthenes?
Demosthenes explained it to someone else. Someone who
 could have used Ender as no one else could have, to rule the world and make
 the world like it.
Who?
Locke.
Locke is the one who argued for Ender to stay on Eros.
All is not always as it seems.
It’s too deep for me, Graff. Give me the game. Nice, neat rules.
 Referees. Beginnings and endings. Winners and losers and then everybody
 goes home to their wives.
Get me tickets to some games now and then, all right?
You won’t really stay here and retire, will you?
No.
You’re going into the Hegemony, aren’t you?
I’m the new Minister of Colonization.
So they’re doing it.
As soon as we get the reports back on the bugger colony worlds. I
 mean, there they are, already fertile, with housing and industry in place, and
 all the buggers dead. Very convenient. We’ll repeal the population limitation
 laws—
Which everybody hates—
And all those thirds and fourths and fifths get on starships and head out
 for worlds known and unknown.
Will people really go?
People always go. Always. They always believe they can make a better
 life than in the old world.
What the hell, maybe they can.
Never mind,
The politicians are afraid of you,
 but they can’t destroy your reputation yet. That won’t be done until the
 historians get at you in thirty years.
Valentine,
Hi, Ender.
What are you doing here?
Demosthenes retired. Now I’m going with the first colony.
It’s fifty years to get there—
Only two years if you’re aboard the ship.
But if you ever came back, everybody you knew on Earth would be
 dead—
That was what I had in mind. I was hoping, though, that someone I
 knew on Eros might come with me.
 “I don’t want to go to a world we stole from the buggers. I just want to
 go home.
Ender, you’re never going back to Earth. I saw to that before I left.
I tell you that now, so that if you want to hate me, you can hate me
 from the beginning.
The way things are right now, Ender, that would put you
 effectively under Peter’s control, since half the council now does just what
 Peter wants. The ones that aren’t Locke’s lapdogs are under his thumb in
 other ways.
Do they know who he really is?
Yes. He isn’t publicly known,. but people in high places know him. It
 doesn’t matter any more. He has too much power for them to worry about his
 age. He’s done incredible things, Ender.
I noticed the treaty a year ago was named for Locke.
That was his breakthrough. He proposed it through his friends from the
 public policy nets, and then Demosthenes got behind it, too. It was the
 moment he had been waiting for, to use Demosthenes’ influence with the
 mob and Locke’s influence with the intelligentsia to accomplish something
 noteworthy. It forestalled a really vicious war that could have lasted for
 decades.
He decided to be a statesman?
I think so. But in his cynical moments, of which there are many, he
 pointed out to me that if he had allowed the League to fall apart completely,
 he’d have to conquer the world piece by piece. As long as the Hegemony
 exists, he can do it in one lump.
That’s the Peter that I knew.
Funny, isn’t it? That Peter would save millions of lives.
While I killed billions.
I wasn’t going to say that.
So he wanted to use me?
He had plans for you, Ender. He would publicly reveal himself when
 you arrived, going to meet you in front of all the videos. Ender Wiggin’s
 older brother, who also happened to be the great Locke, the architect of
 peace. Standing next to you, he would look quite mature. And the physical
 resemblance between you is stronger than ever. It would be quite simple for
 him, then, to take over.
Why did you stop him?
Ender, you wouldn’t be happy spending the rest of your life as Peter’s
 pawn.
Why not? I’ve spent my life as someone’s pawn.
Me too. I showed Peter all the evidence that I had assembled, enough to
 prove in the eyes of the public that he was a psychotic killer. It included full
color pictures of tortured squirrels and some of the monitor videos of the way
 he treated you. It took some work to get it all together, but by the time he saw
 it, he was willing to give me what I wanted. What I wanted was your freedom
 and mine.
It’s not my idea of freedom to go live in the house of the people that I
 killed.
Ender, what’s done is done. Their worlds are empty now, and ours is
 full. And we can take with us what their worlds have never known—cities
 full of people who live private, individual lives, who love and hate each other
 for their own reasons. In all the bugger worlds, there was never more than a
 single story to be told; when we’re there, the world will be full of stories, and
 we’ll improvise their endings day by day. Ender, Earth belongs to Peter. And
if you don’t go with me now, he’ll have you there, and use you up until you
 wish you’d never been born. Now is the only chance you’ll get to get away.
I know what you’re thinking, Ender. You’re thinking that I’m trying to
 control you just as much as Peter or Graff or any of the others.
It crossed my mind.
Welcome to the human race. Nobody controls his own life, Ender. The
 best you can do is choose to be controlled by good people, by people who
 love you. I didn’t come here because I wanted to be a colonist. I came
 because I’ve spent my whole life in the company of the brother that I hated.
 Now I want a chance to know the brother that I loved, before it’s too late,
 before we’re not children anymore.
It’s already too late for that.
You’re wrong, Ender. You think you’re grown up and tired and jaded
 with everything, but in your heart you’re just as much a kid as I am. We can
 keep it secret from everybody else. While you’re governing the colony and
 I’m writing political philosophy, they’ll never guess that in the darkness of
 night we sneak into each other’s room and play checkers and have
 pillowfights.
Governing?
I’m Demosthenes, Ender, I went out with a bang. A public
 announcement that I believed so much in the colonization movement that I
 was going in the first ship myself. At the same time, the Minister of
 Colonization, a former colonel named Graff, announced that the pilot of the
 colony ship would be the great Mazer Rackham, and the governor of the
 colony would be Ender Wiggin.
They might have asked me.
I wanted to ask you myself.
But it’s already announced.
No. They’ll be announcing it tomorrow, if you accept. Mazer accepted
 a few hours ago, back in Eros.
You’re telling everyone that you’re Demosthenes? A fourteen-year-old
 girl?
We’re only telling them that Demosthenes is going with the colony. Let
 them spend the next fifty years poring over the passenger list, trying to figure
 out which one of them is the great demagogue of the Age of Locke.
You’re actually having fun, Val.
I can’t think why I shouldn’t.
All right,
I’ll go. Maybe even as governor, as long as you
 and Mazer are there to help me. My abilities are a little underused at present.
Val,
I just want one thing clear. I’m not going for you. I’m
 not going in order to be governor, or because I’m bored here. I’m going
 because I know the buggers better than any other living soul, and maybe if I
 go there I can understand them better. I stole their future from them; I can
 only begin to repay by seeing what I can learn from their past.
They’ve become people of the land,
No one cares
 now that Demosthenes is sending the seventh volume of his history today. No
 one here will read it.
Very
 insightful, Valentine. How many more volumes until you’re through?
Just one. The story of Ender Wiggin.
What will you do, wait to write it until I’m dead?
No. Just write it, and when I’ve brought it up to the present day, I’ll
 stop.
I have a better idea. Take it up to the day we won the final battle. Stop
 it there. Nothing that I’ve done since then is worth writing down.
Maybe,
And maybe not.
Ho, Ender!
Come
 up!
Can you believe this?
It’s like a giant died here,
and the Earth grew up to cover
 his carcass,
Somebody had to have built this,
Look, this skull place,
 it’s not rock, look at it. This is concrete.
I know,
They built it for me.
What?
I know this place, Abra. The buggers built it for me.
The buggers were all dead fifty years before we got here.
You’re right, it’s impossible, but I know what I know. Abra, I
 shouldn’t take you with me. It might be dangerous. If they knew me well
 enough to build this place, they might be planning to—
To get even with you.
For killing them.
So don’t go, Ender. Don’t do what they want you to do.
lf they want to get revenge, Abra, I don’t mind. But perhaps they don’t.
 Perhaps this is the closest they could come to talking. To writing me a note.
They didn’t know how to read and write.
Maybe they were learning when they died.
Well, I’m sure as hell not sticking around here if you’re taking off
 somewhere. I’m going with you.
No. You’re too young to take the risk of—
Come on! You’re Ender Wiggin. Don’t tell me what eleven-year-old
 kids can do!
Don’t come after me, and go home in an
 hour if I don’t come back.
Eat it, Ender, I’m coming with you.
Eat it yourself, Abra, or I’ll stuff you with mud.
How can you live again?
No,
I can’t.
Your children are the monsters of our nightmares now. If I awoke you,
 we would only kill you again.
If you could make them feel as you can make me feel, then perhaps
 they could forgive you.
I’ll carry you,
I’ll go from world to world until I find a
 time and a place where you can come awake in safety. And I’ll tell your story
 to my people, so that perhaps in time they can forgive you, too. The way that
 you’ve forgiven me.
What was in there?
The answer,
To what?
My question.
I know who wrote it,
If he can speak for the buggers, surely
 he can speak for me.
Come on,
Let’s fly away and live
 forever.
We can’t,
There are miracles even relativity can’t pull off,
 Ender.
We have to go. I’m almost happy here.
So, stay.
I’ve lived too long with pain. I won’t know who I am without it.
