We really won’t die.
This isn’t really death,
We’ll be legend. We won’t grow
 old.
This is our world, now, our world,
and those ancient
 people are dead.
It will be alright,
You cry now.
Maybe they got it all early enough,
Maybe it’s just
 seminoma. With seminoma, you have almost a hundred percent survival
 rate.
You cry,
Go on now and
 cry.
All my life,
Why I do anything, I don’t know.
Insomnia is
 just the symptom of something larger. Find out what’s actually wrong. Listen
 to your body.
eggs.
Extend your right quad, flex and hold.
Extend your left arm, flex the bicep and hold.
This is cancer, right?
Well, hi, I’m Marla Singer.
Bob,
you’re crushing me.
Bob.
Bob, I have to go to the can.
Cigarette burns,
Do you know what time it is?
Do you know what time it is?
Right here,
Right now.
parasite.
You’re not dying either,
You tell on me,
and I’ll tell on you.
What about ascending bowel cancers?
No,
Not and go back to the way life felt before,
I used to work
 in a funeral home to feel good about myself, just the fact I was breathing. So
 what if I couldn’t get a job in my field.
Funerals are nothing compared to this,
Funerals are all
 abstract ceremony. Here, you have a real experience of death.
Then don’t come.
Then go to funerals.
How long have you been coming here?
Two years?
Okay,
okay, okay, you can have testicular cancer.
Don’t mention it.
You can only get one prick into a condom,
It wasn’t worth going up,
All that’s left is the
 concrete shell.
A lot of young people try to impress the world and buy too many
 things,
A lot of young people
 don’t know what they really want.
Young people, they think they want the whole world.
If you don’t know what you want,
you end up with
 a lot you don’t.
I want you to hit me as hard as you can.
I’d hate to see what happened to the other guy.
What do you get yourself into every weekend?
The first rule about fight
 club is you don’t talk about fight club.
 “The second rule about fight club,
is you don’t talk about
 fight club.
And the seventh rule,
is if this is your first night at fight
 club, you have to fight.
Cool.
How about next week?
I want you to do me a favor. I want you to hit
 me as hard as you can.
Surprise me.
So go crazy, man.
No.
Yeah it counted,
Cool.
No, you hit me.
Most of
 you,
you’re here because someone broke the rules. Somebody told you
 about fight club.
Well, you better stop talking or you’d better start another
 fight club because next week you put your name on a list when you get here,
 and only the first fifty names on the list get in. If you get in, you set up your
 fight right away if you want a fight. If you don’t want a fight, there are guys
 who do, so maybe you should just stay home.
 “If this is your first night at fight club,
you have to fight.
Don’t be afraid. It’s not a threat to you.
The girl in 8G has no faith in herself,
and she’s worried
 that as she grows older, she’ll have fewer and fewer options.
Good luck.
Let us help you! Miss Singer, you have every reason to live! Just let us
 in, Marla, and we can help you with your problems!
Don’t call this love.
Go home,
Get changed.
I embrace my own festering diseased corruption,
Burn, witch, burn.
At the Pressman Hotel, if you can work in the evening,
The job will stoke your class hatred.
They make you wear a black bow tie,
All you need to
 work there is a white shirt and black trousers.
To make soap, first we have to render fat.
The big sleep, ‘Valley of the Dogs’ style.
 “Where even if someone loves you enough to save your life, they still
 castrate you.
I
 can’t win with you, can I?
Valley of the Dolls
Did you get rid of her?
First,
First, we need to render some fat.
This fat,
it has a lot of salt so the more water, the better.
Use a little imagination. Remember all that pioneer shit they
 taught you in Boy Scouts. Remember your high school chemistry.
Sticking feathers up your butt,
does not make you a
 chicken.
At least Marla’s trying to hit bottom.
If you lose your nerve before you hit the bottom,
you’ll
 never really succeed.
It’s only after you’ve lost everything,
that you’re free to do
 anything.
And keep stirring,
Where you’re at, now,
you can’t even imagine what the
 bottom will be like.
The fat we’re using has a lot of salt in it,
Too much salt and your soap won’t get solid.
At the store, they have one-hundred-percent-recycled toilet paper,
The worst job in the whole world must be recycling toilet
 paper.
Can I stay over, tonight?
What are you cooking?
Please call me,
Please. We need to talk.
I need you to do me another favor,
Don’t ever talk to her about me. Don’t talk about me behind my back.
 Do you promise?
If you ever mention me to her, you’ll never see me again.
Promise?
Now remember, that was three times that you promised.
Don’t worry,
The clear layer is glycerin. You can mix the
 glycerin back in when you make soap. Or, you can skim the glycerin off.
You can mix the glycerin with nitric acid to make nitroglycerin,
You can mix the nitroglycerin with sodium nitrate and sawdust to make
 dynamite,
You can blow up bridges,
You can mix the nitroglycerin with more nitric acid and paraffin and
 make gelatin explosives,
You could blow up a building, easy,
This is a chemical burn,
and it will hurt worse than you’ve
 ever been burned. Worse than a hundred cigarettes.
You’ll have a scar,
With enough soap,
you could blow up the whole world.
 Now remember your promise.
This is a chemical burn,
and it will hurt more than you’ve
 ever been burned.
Because everything up to now is a story,
and everything
 after now is a story.
Come back to the pain,
Look at your hand,
Don’t shut this out,
Soap and human sacrifice go hand in
 hand.
Listen to me,
Open your eyes.
 “In ancient history,
human sacrifices were made on a hill
 above a river. Thousands of people. Listen to me. The sacrifices were made
 and the bodies were burned on a pyre.
 “You can cry,
You can go to the sink and run water over
 your hand, but first you have to know that you’re stupid and you will die.
 Look at me.
 “Someday,
you will die, and until you know that, you’re
 useless to me.
You can cry,
but every tear that lands in the lye flakes on
 your skin will burn a cigarette burn scar.
We can use vinegar,
to neutralize the burning, but first you
 have to give up.
Rain,
fell on the burnt pyre year after year, and year after
 year, people were burned, and the rain seeped through the wood ashes to
 become a solution of lye, and the lye combined with the melted fat of the
 sacrifices, and a thick white discharge of soap crept out from the base of the
 altar and crept downhill toward the river.
This is the greatest moment of your life,
and you’re off
 somewhere missing it.
Geez,
This means something,
This is a sign,
It was right to kill all those people,
Open your eyes,
Congratulations,
You’re a step closer to hitting bottom.
“You have to see,
how the first soap was made of heroes.
Without their death, their pain, without their sacrifice,
we
 would have nothing.
Don’t look at me, or I can’t
 go.
I said, ‘Don’t look.’
I can’t.
Oh.
Oh, yeah. Oh, I’m doing it.
 Oh, yeah. Yes.
We’re not supposed to go in that part of the house,
This will be alright,
How can I face those people,
unless I know who did
 this?
They are your guests,
And
 this party is very important.
What’s it say?
What’s it say, already?
‘I
 have passed an amount of urine into at least one of your many elegant
 fragrances.’
You pissed in her perfume?
So you didn’t, really?
No,
but she doesn’t know that.
So, tell the banquet manager. Get me fired. I’m not married
 to this chickenshit job.
Getting fired,
is the best thing that could happen to any of
 us. That way, we’d quit treading water and do something with our lives.
Cool.
Albert, honey, you stink.
Oh, Walter, it stings. It’s stinging,
It will be alright, Nina.
My hands, Walter,
It will be alright.
Who would do this to me? Who could hate me this much?
Would you call an ambulance?
Cool.
One second,
It could’ve been worse,
what we did with Marla’s mother.
This stuff happens,
Read the newspaper.
What would’ve been worse,
is if you had accidentally
 eaten Marla’s mother.
AS IS
One more time. Tell me exactly what happened.
Knock, knock.
Tyler. Can I come in? Are you home?
Don’t be mean.
I needed to put something in
 your freezer.
But Pumpkin,
I don’t have a freezer at the hotel, and you
 said I could.
This is not crap,
This is my
 mother you’re talking about so just fuck off.
Things would’ve been worse,
if you’d accidentally eaten
 what was in one of those sandwich bags. If you’d got up in the middle of the
 night sometime, and squeezed out the white goo and added California onion
 soup mix and eaten it as a dip with potato chips. Or broccoli.
Paris lips,
As you get older, your lips pull inside your
 mouth. I’m saving for a collagen lip injection. I have almost thirty pounds of
 collagen in your freezer.
AS IS
Spiders,
could lay their eggs and larva could tunnel, under
 your skin. That’s how bad your life can get.
Do what?
We never eat red meat,
The stuff,
is
 making us a fortune. We paid the rent with that collagen.
Saponification,
is the chemical reaction you need to make
 good soap. Chicken fat won’t work or any fat with too much salt.
 “Listen,
We have a big order to fill. What we’ll do is send
 Marla’s mom some chocolates and probably some fruitcakes.
My mother! You’re spilling her all over!
What are you talking about?
Where is she?
Soap?
You boiled my mother!
You boiled my mother!
When a man is hit by lightning,
his head burns down to a
 smoldering baseball and his zipper welds itself shut.
If Marilyn Monroe was alive right now, what
 would she be doing?
Clawing at the lid of her coffin.
This notice is sent to you in accordance with the requirements of the
 National Motor Vehicle Safety Act. We have determined that a defect exists
 … “
 This week I ran the liability formula, and for once A times B times C
 equaled more than the cost of a recall.
 This week, it’s the little plastic clip that holds the rubber blade on your
 windshield wipers. A throwaway item. Only two hundred vehicles affected.
 Next to nothing for the labor cost.
 Last week was more typical. Last week the issue was some leather cured
 with a known teratogenic substance, synthetic Nirret or something just as
 illegal that’s still used in third world tanning. Something so strong that it
 could cause birth defects in the fetus of any pregnant woman who comes
 across it. Last week, nobody called the Department of Transportation.
 Nobody initiated a recall.
 New leather multiplied by labor cost multiplied by administration cost
 would equal more than our first-quarter profits. If anyone ever discovers our
 mistake, we can still pay off a lot of grieving families before we come close
 to the cost of retrofitting sixty-five hundred leather interiors.
 But this week, we’re doing a recall campaign. And this week the
 insomnia is back. Insomnia, and now the whole world figures to stop by and
 take a dump on my grave.
 My boss is wearing his gray tie so today must be a Tuesday.
 My boss brings a sheet of paper to my desk and asks if I’m looking for
 something. This paper was left in the copy machine, he says, and begins to
 read:
 “The first rule of fight club is you don’t talk about fight club.
The second rule of fight club is you don’t talk about fight club.
I hope this isn’t yours.
The third rule of fight club is two men per fight.
One fight at a time.
unknown.
Well,
I’ve got good news.
That’s the good news,
The group’s disbanded. I only
 come down here to tell any guys who might show up.
The good news,
is there’s a new group, but the first rule
 about this new group is you aren’t supposed to talk about it.
 Oh.
 Big Bob says, “And the second rule is you’re not supposed to talk about
 it.
The group’s called fight club,
and it meets every Friday
 night in a closed garage across town. On Thursday nights, there’s another
 fight club that meets at a garage closer by.
The first rule about fight club,
is you don’t talk about
 fight club.
The second rule about fight club,
is you don’t talk about
 fight club.
Only two men per fight.
Only
 one fight at a time,
You fight without shirts or shoes.
The fights,
go on as long as they
 have to. Those are the rules invented by the guy who invented fight club.
Do you know him? “I’ve never seen him, myself,
but the guy’s name is Tyler Durden.
How long,
have you had this red blotch on your foot?
Might.
You feel lopsided?
Look, I’m a
 mermaid.
This isn’t like when guys sit backward on the toilet and
 pretend it’s a motorcycle. This is a genuine accident.
Even the good kind that don’t run,
they snag.
Madam,
 don’t flatter yourself. We couldn’t get even your burned-up head into that
 tiny thing. Go back and get an urn the size of a bowling ball.
When you’re twenty-four,
you have no idea how far you
 can really fall, but I was a fast learner.
Disaster is a natural part of my evolution,
toward
 tragedy and dissolution.
I’m breaking my attachment to physical power and possessions,
because only through destroying myself can I discover the
 greater power of my spirit.
The liberator who destroys my property,
is fighting to save
 my spirit. The teacher who clears all possessions from my path will set me
 free.
Tell him,
Yes, you did it. You blew it all up. That’s
 what he wants to hear.
We appreciate
 your contribution to our success.
Think of this as early retirement, with pension.
Go ahead, you can’t kill me,
You stupid fuck.
 Beat the crap out of me, but you can’t kill me.
I am trash,
I am trash and shit and crazy to you and this
 whole fucking world,
You don’t care
 where I live or how I feel, or what I eat or how I feed my kids or how I pay
 the doctor if I get sick, and yes I am stupid and bored and weak, but I am still
 your responsibility.
Get it out,
Trust me. You’ll feel a lot better. You’ll feel
 great.
What we have to do, people,
is remind these
 guys what kind of power they still have.
Go out and buy a gun.
This,
this is a gun,
 and in two weeks, you should each of you have a gun about this size to bring
 to meeting.
 “Better you should pay for it with cash,
Next meeting,
 you’ll all trade guns and report the gun you bought as stolen.
A gun,
is simple and perfect. You just draw the trigger
 back.
The trigger,
frees the hammer, and the hammer strikes the
 powder.
The explosion blasts a metal slug off the open end of the shell, and the
 barrel of the gun focuses the exploding powder and the rocketing slug,
like a man out of a cannon, like a missile out of a silo, like your jism,
 in one direction.
You looked like a
 maniac, Psycho-Boy. Where did you go?
Recycling and speed limits are bullshit,
They’re like
 someone who quits smoking on his deathbed.
You justify anarchy,
You figure it out.
Imagine,
stalking elk past department store windows and
 stinking racks of beautiful rotting dresses and tuxedos on hangers; you’ll
 wear leather clothes that will last you the rest of your life, and you’ll climb
 the wrist-thick kudzu vines that wrap the Sears Tower. Jack and the
 beanstalk, you’ll climb up through the dripping forest canopy and the air will
 be so clean you’ll see tiny figures pounding corn and laying strips of venison
 to dry in the empty car pool lane of an abandoned superhighway stretching
 eight-lanes-wide and August-hot for a thousand miles.
Don’t get any bullets,
And just so
 you don’t worry about it, yes, you’re going to have to kill someone.
 Arson. Assault. Mischief and Misinformation.
 No questions. No questions. No excuses and no lies.
 The fifth rule about Project Mayhem is you have to trust Tyler.
 Tyler wanted me to type up and copy. A week ago, Tyler was pacing out
 the dimensions of the basement of the rented house on Paper Street. It’s
sixty-five shoe lengths front to back and forty shoe lengths side to side. Tyler
 was thinking out loud. Tyler asked me, “What is six times seven?
And forty-two times three?
Because,
that’s how many guys can sleep in the basement,
 if we put them in triple-decker army surplus bunk beds.
They won’t bring anything more than what’s on the list, and
 it should all fit under a mattress.
Bringing the required items does not guarantee admission to training, but
 no applicant will be considered unless he arrives equipped with the following
 items and exactly five hundred dollars cash for personal burial money.
It costs at least three hundred dollars to cremate an indigent corpse,
 Tyler told me, and the price was going up. Anyone who dies without at least
 this much money, their body goes to an autopsy class.
 This money must always be carried in the student’s shoe so if the student
 is ever killed, his death will not be a burden on Project Mayhem.
 In addition, the applicant has to arrive with the following:
 Two black shirts.
 Two black pair of trousers.
Chapter 14
 My boss brings another sheet of paper to my desk and sets it at my elbow.
 I don’t even wear a tie anymore. My boss is wearing his blue tie, so it must
 be a Thursday. The door to my boss’s office is always closed now, and we
 haven’t traded more than two words any day since he found the fight club
 rules in the copy machine and I maybe implied I might gut him with a
 shotgun blast. Just me clowning around, again.
 Or, I might call the Compliance people at the Department of
 Transportation. There’s a front seat mounting bracket that never passed
 collision testing before it went into production.
 If you know where to look, there are bodies buried everywhere.
 Morning, I say.
 He says, “Morning.
He’s too young,
Get rid of him,
He’s too young.
It doesn’t matter,
If the applicant is young, we tell him
 he’s too young. If he’s fat, he’s too fat. If he’s old, he’s too old. Thin, he’s
 too thin. White, he’s too white. Black, he’s too black.
I’m sorry.
Come in. Get
your stuff out of the street and come in.
Don’t bother them. They all know what to do. It’s part of Project Mayhem.
 No one guy understands the whole plan, but each guy is trained to do one
 simple task perfectly.
The first rule about Project Mayhem,
is you don’t ask questions about
 Project Mayhem.
The first rule in Project Mayhem is you don’t talk … “
 I cut him off. I say, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
 And while I’m at work, teams of space monkeys dig up the muddy lawn
 around the house and cut the dirt with Epsom salts to lower the acidity, and
 spade in loads of free steer manure from the stockyards and bags of hair
 clippings from barber shops to ward off moles and mice and boost the protein
 in the soil.
 At any time of the night, space monkeys from some slaughterhouse come
 home with bags of blood meal to boost the iron in the soil and bone meal to
 boost the phosphorus.
 Teams of space monkeys plant basil and thyme and lettuce and starts of
 witch hazel and eucalyptus and mock orange and mint in a kaleidoscope knot
 pattern. A rose window in every shade of green. And other teams go out at
 night and kill the slugs and snails by candlelight. Another team of space
 monkeys picks only the most perfect leaves and juniper berries to boil for a
 natural dye. Comfrey because it’s a natural disinfectant. Violet leaves
 because they cure headaches and sweet woodruff because it gives soap a cut
grass smell.
 In the kitchen are bottles of 80-proof vodka to make the translucent rose
 geranium and brown sugar soap and the patchouli soap, and I steal a bottle of
 vodka and spend my personal burial money on cigarettes. Marla shows up.
 We talk about the plants. Marla and I walk on raked gravel paths through the
 kaleidoscope green patterns of the garden, drinking and smoking. We talk
 about her breasts. We talk about everything except Tyler Durden.
 And one day it’s in the newspaper how a team of men wearing black had
 stormed through a better neighborhood and a luxury car dealership slamming
baseball bats against the front bumpers of cars so the air bags inside would
 explode in a powdery mess with their car alarms screaming.
 At the Paper Street Soap Company, other teams pick the petals from roses
 or anemones and lavender and pack the flowers into boxes with a cake of
 pure tallow that will absorb their scent for making soap with a flower smell.
 Marla tells me about the plants.
 The rose, Marla tells me, is a natural astringent.
 Some of the plants have obituary names: Iris, Basil, Rue, Rosemary, and
 Verbena. Some, like meadowsweet and cowslips, sweet flag and spikenard,
 are like the names of Shakespeare fairies. Deer tongue with its sweet vanilla
 smell. Witch hazel, another natural astringent. Orrisroot, the wild Spanish
 iris.
 Every night, Marla and I walk in the garden until I’m sure that Tyler’s not
 coming home that night. Right behind us is always a space monkey trailing
 us to pick up the twist of balm or rue or mint Marla crushes under my nose. A
 dropped cigarette butt. The space monkey rakes the path behind him to erase
 our ever being there.
 And one night in an uptown square park, another group of men floured
 gasoline around every tree and from tree to tree and set a perfect little forest
 fire. It was in the newspaper, how townhouse windows across the street from
 the fire melted, and parked cars farted and settled on melted flat tires.
 Tyler’s rented house on Paper Street is a living thing wet on the inside
 from so many people sweating and breathing. So many people are moving
 inside, the house moves.
 Another night that Tyler didn’t come home, someone was drilling bank
 machines and pay telephones and then screwing lube fittings into the drilled
 holes and using a grease gun to pump the bank machines and pay telephones
 full of axle grease or vanilla pudding.
 And Tyler was never at home, but after a month a few of the space
 monkeys had Tyler’s kiss burned into the back of their hand. Then those
 space monkeys were gone, too, and new ones were on the front porch to
 replace them.
 And every day, the teams of men came and went in different cars. You
 never saw the same car twice. One evening, I hear Marla on the front porch,
 telling a space monkey, “I’m here to see Tyler. Tyler Durden He lives here.
 I’m his friend.
I’m sorry, but you’re too … “ and he pauses,
“you’re too young to train here.
Get screwed.
Besides,
you haven’t brought the required
 items: two black shirts, two pair of black pants …
Tyler!
One pair of heavy black shoes.
Tyler!
Two pair of black socks and two pair of plain underwear.
Tyler!
You are not a beautiful and
 unique snowflake. You are the same decaying organic matter as everyone
 else, and we are all part of the same compost pile.
Our culture has made us all the same. No
 one is truly white or black or rich, anymore. We all want the same.
 Individually, we are nothing.
You are not a
 beautiful and unique snowflake.
What are you going to do?
Go outside, there’s some
 guys waiting for you in the parking lot.
They’re all waiting,
Hit the road. They have a car, outside. They have a
 Cadillac.
Did you see this
 cake I made for you? I made this.
Some oil was getting by the rings,
but I changed the oil and the air filter. I checked the valve lash and
 the timing. It’s supposed to rain, tonight, so I changed the blades.
Is this a test? Are you testing us?
The first rule about fight club is you don’t talk about fight club,
And the last rule about Project Mayhem is you don’t ask
 questions.
What you have to understand, is your father was your model for
 God.
If you’re male and you’re Christian and living in
America, your father is your model for God. And if you never know your
 father, if your father bails out or dies or is never at home, what do you
 believe about God?
What you end up doing,
is you spend your life
 searching for a father and God.
What you have to consider,
is the possibility that God doesn’t
 like you. Could be, God hates us. This is not the worst thing that can
 happen.
Burn the Louvre,
and wipe your ass with the Mona
 Lisa. This way at least, God would know our names.
If the prodigal son had never left home,
the fatted
 calf would still be alive.
It’s not enough to be numbered with the grains of sand on the beach and
 the stars in the sky.
Last week, we could’ve filled another four fight clubs,
Maybe Big Bob can take over running the next chapter if we find a
 bar.
You know who makes up the rules.
We want you, not your money.
As long as you’re at fight club,
 you’re not how much money you’ve got in the bank. You’re not your job.
 You’re not your family, and you’re not who you tell yourself.
You’re not your name.
You’re not your problems.
You’re not your problems.
You’re not your age.
You’re not your age.
You’re not
your hopes.
You will not be saved.
We are all going to die,
 someday.
Quick,
What,
what will you wish you’d done before you died?
Ten
 seconds to impact.
 “Nine.
 “In eight.
 “Seven.
 “In six.
Hey, space monkeys,
you see
 how the game’s played. Fess up now or we’re all dead.
I Drive Better
 When I’m Drunk.
Make Mine Veal.
Drunk Drivers Against Mothers.
Recycle All the Animals.
What will you wish you’d done before you died?
Make your wish, quick,
We’ve got five seconds to
 oblivion.
 “One,
Two.
Three.
Ride a horse,
Build a house,
Get a tattoo.
Believe in me and you shall die, forever.
Entourage.
Happy Birthday.
I almost broke the steering wheel with your head,
On the floor.
Those birthday candles,
they’re the kind that never go out.
You had a near-life experience,
Part of it,
I had to make four human sacrifices, and I have to
 pick up a load of fat.
For the soap.
I see the strongest and the smartest men who have ever lived,
and these men are
 pumping gas and waiting tables.
If we could put these men in training camps and finish raising them.
 “All a gun does is focus an explosion in one direction.
 “You have a class of young strong men and women, and they want to
 give their lives to something. Advertising has these people chasing cars and
clothes they don’t need. Generations have been working in jobs they hate,
 just so they can buy what they don’t really need.
 “We don’t have a great war in our generation, or a great depression, but
 we do, we have a great war of the spirit. We have a great revolution against
 the culture. The great depression is our lives. We have a spiritual depression.
 “We have to show these men and women freedom by enslaving them, and
 show them courage by frightening them.
 “Napoleon bragged that he could train men to sacrifice their lives for a
 scrap of ribbon.
 “Imagine, when we call a strike and everyone refuses to work until we
 redistribute the wealth of the world.
 “Imagine hunting elk through the damp canyon forests around the ruins of
 Rockefeller Center.
 “What you said about your job,
did you really mean
 it?
That’s why we’re on the road, tonight,
Fat,
liposuctioned fat sucked out of the richest
 thighs in America. The richest, fattest thighs in the world.
The richest, creamiest fat in the world, the fat of the land,
That makes tonight a kind of Robin Hood thing.
While we’re there,
we’re supposed to look for some of those
 hepatitis bugs, too.
Welcome back, sir.
Is this a test?
You stopped in last week, Mr. Durden,
Don’t you
 remember?
You were here, sir.
If you say so, sir,
but Thursday night, you came in
 to ask how soon the police were planning to shut us down.
Yes, sir,
Thursday night, you were standing right
 where you are now and you were asking me about the police crackdown, and
 you were asking me how many guys we had to turn away from the
 Wednesday night fight club.
There’s nobody that’s going to hear, Mr. Durden, sir.
 We had a twenty-seven-count turn-away, last night. The place is always
 empty the night after fight club.
You have a birthmark, Mr. Durden,
On your foot.
 It’s shaped like a dark red Australia with New Zealand next to it.
Everybody in Project Mayhem knows, Mr. Durden.
Everybody knows about the birthmark,
It’s part of
 the legend. You’re turning into a fucking legend, man.
What?
What!
Christ!
Well?
You are such a piece of shit.
I could
 kill you!
I knew this would happen,
You’re such a flake. You love me. You ignore me. You save my life, then
 you cook my mother into soap.
In that testicle cancer thing,
Then you saved my life.
You saved my life.
You saved my life.
You saved my life. The Regent Hotel. I’d accidentally
 attempted suicide. Remember?
That night,
I said I wanted to have your abortion.
Tyler Durden. Your name is Tyler Butt-Wipe-for-Brains
 Durden. You live at 5123 NE Paper Street which is currently teeming with
 your little disciples shaving their heads and burning their skin off with lye.
You’ve got to get your ass back here,
before those little trolls make soap out of me.
You,
You kissed my hand.
Wake up. Wake up, we solved the problem with the police here in Seattle.
 Wake up.
But not to worry,
Mister police commissioner shouldn’t be
 a problem,
We have him by the balls, now.
Funny,
I wanted to ask you the same thing. You talked
 about me to other people, you little shit. You broke your promise.
Every time you fall asleep,
I run off and do something
 wild, something crazy, something completely out of my mind.
Last Thursday, you fell
 asleep, and I took a plane to Seattle for a little fight club looksee. To check
the turn-away numbers, that sort of thing. Look for new talent. We have
 Project Mayhem in Seattle, too.
We have
 Project Mayhem in Los Angeles and Detroit, a big Project Mayhem going on
 in Washington, D.C., in New York. We have Project Mayhem in Chicago
 like you would not believe.
I can’t believe you broke your promise. The first rule is you
 don’t talk about fight club.
What it is,
is we have police who come to fight at fight
 club and really like it. We have newspaper reporters and law clerks and
 lawyers, and we know everything before it’s going to happen.
At least in Seattle,
What did we do about it,
There isn’t a me and a you, anymore,
I think you’ve figured that out.
We called a special homework assignment,
We said,
 ‘Bring me the steaming testicles of his esteemed honor, Seattle Police
 Commissioner Whoever.

 I
Yes,
you are.
Don’t worry,
the dog is alright.
One monkey’s between his legs with the knife,
And I’m whispering in his most esteemed
 police commissioner’s ear that he better stop the fight club crackdown, or
 we’ll tell the world that his esteemed honor does not have any balls.
How far do you think you’ll get, your honor?
How far do you think you’ll get in politics if the voters know you have
 no nuts?
We have nothing to lose except fight club.
Imagine the rest of your life with your bag flapping empty.
Remember this,
The people you’re trying to step on, we’re
 everyone you depend on. We’re the people who do your laundry and cook
 your food and serve your dinner. We make your bed. We guard you while
 you’re asleep. We drive the ambulances. We direct your call. We are cooks
 and taxi drivers and we know everything about you. We process your
 insurance claims and credit card charges. We control every part of your life.
 “We are the middle children of history, raised by television to believe that
 someday we’ll be millionaires and movie stars and rock stars, but we won’t.
 And we’re just learning this fact,
So don’t fuck with us.
Every time we do these little homework assignments,
these
 fight club men with nothing to lose are a little more invested in Project
 Mayhem.
Close your eyes and give me your
 hand.
I said that if you talked about me behind my back, you’d never see me
 again,
We’re not two separate men. Long story short, when
 you’re awake, you have the control, and you can call yourself anything you
 want, but the second you fall asleep, I take over, and you become Tyler
 Durden.
You weren’t really fighting me,
You said so yourself. You
 were fighting everything you hate in your life.
You’re asleep.
Order your canceled checks from the bank. I rented the
 house in your name. I think you’ll find the handwriting on the rent checks
 matches the notes you’ve been typing for me.
And the jobs, well, why do you think you’re so tired. Geez, it’s not
 insomnia. As soon as you fall asleep, I take over and go to work or fight club
 or whatever. You’re lucky I didn’t get a job as a snake handler.
Marla loves you.
Marla doesn’t know the difference between you and me. You gave her a
 fake name the night you met. You never gave your real name at a support
 group, you inauthentic shit. Since I saved her life, Marla thinks your name is
 Tyler Durden.
No,
I wouldn’t be here in the first
 place if you didn’t want me. I’ll still live my life while you’re asleep, but if
 you fuck with me, if you chain yourself to the bed at night or take big doses
 of sleeping pills, then we’ll be enemies. And I’ll get you for it.
Fuck that shit,
Maybe you’re my schizophrenic
 hallucination.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, well let’s just see who’s here last.
Then wake up.
I am the all-singing, all
dancing crap of this world,
I am the
 toxic waste byproduct of God’s creation.
What’s for dinner?
I am
 the shit and infectious human waste of creation.
I’m glad you’re back,
We have to talk.
The three ways to make napalm:
 “One, you can mix equal parts of gasoline and frozen orange juice
 concentrate,
Two, you can mix
 equal parts of gasoline and diet cola. Three, you can dissolve crumbled cat
 litter in gasoline until the mixture is thick.
Sir!
Would you like to order
 now? Sir!
Anything you order is free of charge. Sir!
Why is he giving us free food?
In that case, sir,
may I advise against the lady, here,
 eating the clam chowder.
You get some nice perks, being Tyler Durden.
But everyone knows you’re Tyler Durden,
So why,
are you Tyler Durden to some people but not to
 everybody?
No,
you don’t sleep.
Just like Tony Perkins’ mother in Psycho,
This is so cool.
 Everybody has their little quirks. One time, I dated a guy who couldn’t get
 enough body piercings.
But you are Tyler,
But you are, Tyler,
Just like the animals at the Animal Control place.
So,
even if I did believe all this, what do you want from
 me?
His name is Robert Paulson.
His name is Robert Paulson.
He is forty-eight years old.
He is forty-eight years old.
Robert Paulson.
Robert Paulson.
Robert Paulson.
The first rule of fight club is you don’t talk about fight club.
The second rule of fight club is you don’t talk about fight club.
The third rule is only two guys to a fight.
Registered fight number one, take the floor,
Clear the center of the club.
Clear the center of the club!
Clear the center of the club!
Prepare to evict the member in three, two, one.
Registered fight number one,
 please take the center of the floor. Now!
Evict fight club member, now!
Here,
I used to
 date a guy who had terrible nightmares. He hated to sleep too.
Oh, he died. Heart attack. Overdose. Way too many amphetamines,
He was only nineteen.
Good evening, sir.
You can take all six of these and not get sick to your stomach,
but you have to take them by putting them up your butt.
I’m not making this up. We can get something stronger,
 later. Some real drugs like cross tops or black beauties or alligators.
Then only take two.
Bowling. It’s open all night, and they won’t let you sleep there.
Is that why the bus driver let us ride for free?
So what’s your point?
I dated a guy once who liked to wear my clothes,
You
 know, dresses. Hats with veils. We could dress you up and sneak you
 around.
It gets worse,
I dated a guy, once, who wanted me to fake
 a lesbian scene with his blow-up doll.
I dated this other guy who used one of those penis enlargement
 systems.
Four A.M.
Take your pills,
You being Tyler Durden and all, they’ll
 probably let us bowl for free. Hey, before we get rid of Tyler, can we go
 shopping? We could get a nice car. Some clothes. Some CDs. There is an
 upside to all this free stuff
Okay, forget it.
Go outside. We have
 a car.
Mr.
 Durden, sir, I really admire what you’re doing.
You have to forgive me for this,
The committee says
 this is your own idea sir.
You’re a brave man,
to make yourself a
 homework assignment.
Shut up,
The lookout doesn’t
 say shit.
You know the drill, Mr. Durden. You said it
 yourself. You said, if anyone ever tries to shut down the club, even you, then
 we have to get him by the nuts.
You know it’s useless to fight us,
We’re just after a little collateral,
This
 isn’t just a threat, this time, Mr. Durden. This time, we have to cut them.
It’s cops.
Hold up in there.
You cut him yet?
Do it quick, there’s a warrant out for his arrest.
Nothing personal, Mr.
 Durden. It’s a pleasure to finally meet you.
You told us you’d probably say that.
You told us you’d say that, too.
Yeah, yeah, yeah,
You said you would definitely say
 that.
What’s our best time to date
 for a cut-and-run?
Four minutes.
Is somebody timing this?
Just a sec. Wait for the second hand to get up to the
 twelve.
Nine.
Eight.
Seven.
Mr. Durden! You’re going to fuck up the time.
Hey.
Hey.
Hey!
One minute!
Hey!
Two minutes!
Don’t hurt him,
Three minutes!
You know the speech Mr. Durden. Don’t
 fuck with fight club.
Good evening, Mr. Durden. Can I get you a cab? Are
 you feeling alright? Do you want to use the phone?
Right away, Mr. Durden.
You can suck shit.
Where?
Got it,
I can be there in twenty minutes.
I can get you a cab, Mr. Durden.
 Free of charge to anywhere you want.
You fucking suck-ass piece of shit,
You
 killed someone,
I called the police and they should be
 here any minute.
You can suck shit,
Just because you and your little disciples like getting beat up, you touch
 me ever again, and you’re dead.
I saw you shoot a man tonight,
No,
I followed you to the Pressman Hotel, and you were a
 waiter at one of those murder mystery parties.
You shot the mayor’s special envoy on recycling!
And you don’t even have cancer!
He’s been coming here for two years,
and he doesn’t
 have anything!
What? Why does my life need saving?
No! Stay! What else?
So who’s going to kill me?
You?
Why should I believe any of this?
Not love?
So where are you going?
Good evening, sir.
Welcome to fight club, sir.
Thank you for joining us, sir.
Patrick?
Patrick, that’s enough, stop being dead.
Get up.
The last thing we have to do is your martyrdom thing. Your
 big death thing.
Get up.
It has to be big,
Picture this: you on top of the world’s
 tallest building, the whole building taken over by Project Mayhem. Smoke
 rolling out the windows. Desks falling into the crowds on the street. A real
 opera of a death, that’s what you’re going to get.
If you don’t cooperate, we’ll go after Marla.
Now get the fuck out of bed,
and get your ass into the
 fucking car.
We won’t really die.
Wait,
We followed you,
All the people from the support group.
 You don’t have to do this. Put the gun down.
Wait.
Stop.
We can help you.
Let us help you.
We know.
It’s not love or anything,
but I think I like you, too.
No, I like you,
I know the difference.
Why?
No, that’s not right.
Hello,
Hi. What’s
 happening? Tell me every little thing.
We miss you Mr. Durden.
Everything’s going according to the plan.
 Whispers
 “We’re going to break up civilization so we can make something better
 out of the world.
We look forward to getting you back.
