t always that way. Even so,
 I got no complaints, cause I reckon I done live a pretty interestin life, so to
 speak.
 I been a idiot since I was born. My IQ is near 70, which qualifies me, so
 they say. Probly, tho, I
d rather think of mysef as like a halfwit, or somethin—an not
 no idiot—cause when people think of a idiot, more
m slow—I
m probly a lot brighter than folks
 think, cause what goes on in my mind is a sight different than what folks see.
 For instance, I can think things pretty good, but when I got to try sayin or
 writin them, it kinda come out like jello or somethin. I
m walkin down the street an this man was out workin in
 his yard. He
Forrest,
 you wanna earn some money?
Uh-huh,
m thru he reach in his pocket for a
 dollar. What I shoulda done was raised Cain about the low wages, but
 instead, I took the damn dollar an all I could say was "thanks" or somethin
 dumb-soundin like that, an I went on down the street, waddin an unwaddin
 that dollar in my hand, feelin like a idiot.
 You see what I mean?
 Now I know somethin bout idiots. Probly the only thing I do know bout,
 but I done read up on em—all the way from that Doy-chee-eveskie guy
s fool, an Faulkner
d
 agree with that. Any idiot would. Hee Hee.
 When I was born, my mama name me Forrest, cause of General Nathan
 Bedford Forrest who fought in the Civil War. Mama always said we was kin
 to General Forrest
n he started up the Ku Klux Klan after the war was over an even my
 grandmama say they
s noose strung up inside. When he seen me watchin, he done
 thowed it around his own neck an jerk it up like he was hanged an let his
 tongue stick out an all so
s
 how I got my name.
 My mama is a real fine person. Everbody says that. My daddy, he got kilt
 just after I
t care for bananas much
 myself, cept for banana puddin. I like that all right.
 My mama got a little pension from the United Fruit people an she took in
 boarders at our house, so we got by okay. When I was little, she kep me
 inside a lot, so as the other kids wouldn
d set there an talk to me, jus talk on an on bout nothin in particular, like a
 person
s growin up, she
s teasing me an all, an one day a boy hit me in the
 back with a stick wile they was chasin me an it raised some fearsome welt.
 After that, she tole me not to play with them boys anymore. I started tryin to
 play with the girls but that weren
n to be in there with everbody else.
 They let me finish out first grade tho. Sometimes I
t know what was going on in my mind, but I
d come over an fuss at me.
 Sometimes, I
d make me go out an set on a bench in the hall. An the
 other kids, they
n to chase me or get me
 to start hollerin so
t run away from me an sometimes she
d gone aroun collectin all the funny fellers
 they coud find an put em all together, rangin from my age an younger to big
 ole boys bout sixteen or seventeen. They was retards of all kinds an spasmos
 an kids that couldn
s in the electric chair or
 somethin. Miss Margaret, our teacher, made me go in the bathroom with him
 when he had to go, so
t do nothin wierd. He done it anyway, tho.
 I didn
d just lock mysef in one of the stalls
 and stay there till he
t all bad tho.
 They
t no book learnin to
 speak of—cept to show us how to read street signs an things like the
 difference between the Men
 rooms. With all them serious
 nuts in there, it woulda been impossible to conduct anythin more
s hair. Who the hell wants a bunch of retards runnin aroun loose? Even I
 could understand that.
 When I got to be thirteen, some pretty unusual things begun to happen.
 First off, I started to grow. I grew six inches in six months, an my mama was
 all the time havin to let out my pants. Also, I commenced to grow out. By the
 time I was sixteen I was six foot six an weighed two hundrit forty-two
 pounds. I know that cause they took me in an weighed me. Said they jus
 couldn
m strollin
 down the street on the way home from nut school, an a car stop longside of
 me. This guy call me over an axed my name. I tole him, an then he axed what
 school I go to, an how come he ain
d ever played football. I shook my head. I guess I
 mighta tole him I
d never let me play. But like I
 said, I ain
downtown.
t go downtown. We went to the new highschool
 they had built. When we got there they took me inside to the principal
t go to no class or nothin, but Coach Fellers, he took me back
 to the locker room an one of the goons rounded me up a football suit with all
 them pads an stuff an a real nice plastic helmet with a thing in front to keep
 my face from gettin squished in. The only thing was, they couldn
s I had to use my sneakers till they could order the shoes.
 Coach Fellers an the goons got me dressed up in the football suit, an then
 they made me undress again, an then do it all over again, ten or twenty times,
 till I could do it by mysef. One thing I had trouble with for a wile was that
 jockstrap thing—cause I couldn
m a "dummy" or somethin like that, an I guess he thought I wouldn
t followin real close
 cause I was haf scared to death, on account of nobody had ever introduced
 me before to a bunch of strangers. But afterward some of the others come up
 an shook my hand an say they is glad I am here an all. Then Coach Fellers
 blowed a whistle, what like to make me leap outta my skin an everbody
 started jumpin around to get exercise.
 It
t know how to play. We had this thing where you sposed to block
 people an they were tryin to splain it all, but when we tried it a bunch of
times everbody seemed to be gettin disgusted cause I couldn

 heads down, but they were unhappy with the way I grapped the guy with the
 ball, an finally they made me go an tackle a big oak tree about fifteen or
 twenty times—to get the feel of it, I spose. But after a wile, when they
 figgered I had learnt somethin from the oak tree, they put me back with the
 three guys an the ball carrier an then got mad I didn
t want to jump on the ball guy cause I was afraid of hurtin him.
 Coach, he say that it wouldn
t so much afraid of hurtin him as I was that
 he
d start chasin me again if I wadn
t have that
 much to do, but here they was far more serious about things. Somehow, they
 had worked it out so
n once or twice I had nasty thoughts about her. Miss
 Henderson was her name.
 About the only class I liked was lunch, but I guess you couldn
d take it to school with me. But in this
 school they was a cafeteria with nine or ten different things to eat an I
taken care of.
t work cept when
 they ran the ball right up the middle of the line. Coach was not too happy
 with my tacklin neither, an let me tell you, I spent a lot of time at that oak
 tree. But I just couldn
t say nothin, but she was jus bout the only person in the school I
 knew halfways, an it felt good setting there with her. Most of the time she
 didn
d been settin
 with some of the football players, but they acted like I was invisible or
 somethin. At least Jenny Curran acted like I was there. But after a wile of
 this, I started to notice this other guy was there a lot too, an he starts makin
 wisecracks bout me. Sayin shit like "How
 an all. And this gone on
 for a week or two, an I was sayin nothin, but finally I says—I can't hardly
 believe I said it even now—but I says, 
t no Dumbo," an the guy jus
 looked at me an starts laughin. An Jenny Curran, she say to the guy to keep
 quiet, but he takes a carton of milk an pours it in my lap an I jump up an run
 out cause it scares me.
 A day or so later, that guy come up to me in the hall an says he
get
s sayin all kinds of bad things, callin me a "stupo" an all, an then he hit me
 in the stomach. It didn
m sposed to run outside the
 right end of the line to the goalpost. When they all start chasin me, I run fast
 as I can—it was seven or eight of them before they could drag me down.
 Coach Fellers is mighty happy; jumpin up and down an yellin an slappin
 everbody on the back. We
m bein chased, I guess. What idiot
 wouldn
t
 get to where I liked to just run over people like you do in the middle. One of
 the goons comments that I am the largest highschool halfback in the entire
 world. I do not think he mean it as a compliment.
 Otherwise, I was learnin to read a lot better with Miss Henderson. She
 give me Tom Sawyer an two other books I can
t do so hot. But I
 sure enjoyed them books.
 After a wile, I went back to settin nex to Jenny Curran in the cafeteria, an
 there weren
moron
stupo.
m bout to take off again—but then, for no reason I know, I jus didn
s parents, say if I lay a
 han on their son again they is goin to call the authorities an have me "put
 away." I tried to splain it to my mama an she say she understand, but I could
 tell she was worried. She tell me that since I am so huge now, I got to watch
 mysef, cause I might hurt somebody. An I nodded an promised her I wouldn
m in the clear an they all had to start chasin me again. That year I made the
 All State Football team. I couldn
switch up the
 railroad tracks.
t have no toilet, an I had drank two
 Slurpees fore we lef, so when we get to Flomaton, I really got to go bad.
 The thing was helt at the Flomaton Highschool auditorium, an when we
 git inside, me and some of the others find the toilet. Somehow, tho, when I go
 to unzip my pants, the zipper is stuck in my shirttail an won
I spose you
 expect me to send this boy out there with his fly unzipped an his thing hangin
 out—now what kind of a impression do you think that would make?
Forrest, you jus got to keep a lid on it till this thing's over,
 an then we get it open for you—okay?
t know what
 else to do, but I figgerin I be in for a long evenin.
 When we get out to the auditorium there
d of
 hepped me, but she back at home in bed with the grippe. Finally it come time
 to get handed our prizes, which was little gold-colored footballs, an when our
 names was called we was sposed to go up to the microphone an take the prize
 an say "thank you," an they also tole us if anybody has anythin else he wants
 to say, to keep it short on account of we want to be gettin out of there before
 the turn of the century.
 Most everbody had got they prize an said "thank you," an then it come
 my turn. Somebody on the microphone call out "Forrest Gump," which, if I
hadn
Thank you,
m some kind of idiot, an they makin a special effort to be nice. But
 I
t know what to do, so I jus kep standin
 there. Then everbody hush up, an the man at the mike he lean over and axe
 me if I got anythin else I want to say. So I says, "I got to pee."
 Everbody in the audience didn
Gump,
you sure got a way with words.
t too eventful, cept somebody put out the word that a
 idiot got hissef on the All State Football team an a bunch of letters start
 comin in from all round the country. Mama collect them all and start keepin a
 scrapbook. One day a package come from New Yawk City that contain a
 official baseball signed by the entire New Yawk Yankees baseball team. It
 was the best thing ever happen to me! I treasure that ball like a goldbrick, till
 one day when I was tossin it aroun in the yard, a big ole dog come up an grap
 it outta the air an chewed it up. Things like that always happenin to me.
 One day Coach Fellers call me in an take me into the principal
watchin
t.
 Everbody seemed to be in awe of this man, bowin an scrapin an callin
 him "Mister Bryant." But he say for me to call him "Bear," which I thought
 was a funny name, cept he do look similar to a bear in some respects. Coach
 Fellers point out that I am not the brightest person, but the Bear, he say that is
 plenty true of most of his players, an that he figgers to get me special hep in
 my studies. A week later they give me a test with all sorts of screwy
questions the like of which I am not familiar with. After a wile I get bored
 and stop takin the test.
 Two days afterward, the Bear come back again and I get hauled into the
 principal
Well, this is unfortunate then,
 cause the score appears to indicate that this boy is a idiot.
special
s I
 don
t know what the deal was, but my mama did—it
 was 1968 an they was all sorts of shit fixin to hoppen.
 Mama give me a letter from the school principal to han to the daft-board
 people, but somehow I lost it on the way there. It was a loony scene. They
 was a big colored guy in a Army suit yellin at people an dividin them up into
 bunches. We was all standin there and he come up an shout, "All right, I want
 half of you to go over there an half of you to go over here, an the other half of
 you to stay put!" Everbody millin aroun an lookin bewildered an even I could
 figger out this guy
t much for that, but everbody else done it an so I did too. They lookin at
us everplace—eyes, noses, mouths, ears—even our private parts. At one
 point they tell me, "Bend over," an when I do, somebody jam his finger up
 my ass.
 That
Don't worry, Forrest—everthin gonna be okay.
t. Next week, a van pull up at our house and a number of men in
 Army suits an shiny black helmets come up to the door be axin for me. I
m some kinda maniac.
 They was a door that lead to a big office where there
s one hell of a lot easier
 than the college football test, it still ain
m done, they take me to another room where they
Temporarily Deferred,
Forrest, I just got a box of nice divinity this afternoon—
 would you like a piece?
yes,
Jus keep your eyes
 closed,
an everthing will be all right.
d have preferred to
 have done to me by Jenny Curran. An yet, there was no way I could see to
 even begin gettin that accomplished cause what with the way I am, it is not so
 easy to ask anyone for a date. That is to put it mildly.
 But on account of my new experience, I got up the courage to axe my
 mama what to do about Jenny, tho I certainly didn
ll take care of it for me, an she call up Jenny
 Curran
d of rather had five thousand people chasin me than to come out of my room
 jus then, but Mama come up an take me by the han an lead me down an give
 me a ice-cream float too. That made it better.
 Mama said we can go to the movies an she give Jenny three dollars as we
 walk out of the house. Jenny ain
s I laughed a lot
 when that went on, an whenever I did, Jenny Curran seemed to squnch down
 in her seat a lot. Halfway thru the movie, she was almost squnched down to
 the floor. I suddenly saw this an figgered she had somehow felled out of her
 seat, so I reached over an grapped her by the shoulder to lif her up again.
 As I did this, I heard somethin tear, an I look down an Jenny Curran
m tryin to hole onto her so
t fall down again or come
 undone an there
 goons, cept
downtown,
m in the doghouse again.
 There was some kind of ceremony a few days later down to the
 courthouse. My mama dressed me in my suit an took me there, an we met a
 nice man with a moustache carrying a big purse who tole the judge a bunch
 of things an then some other people, includin my mama, say some other shit
 an finally it was my turn.
 The man with the moustache took me by the arm so
d stand up, an the
 judge axed me how all this done happen? I couldn
s anything else I want to
 add, an so I says, "I got to pee," cause we
m about to bust! The judge, he lean forward from behind his big ole desk
 an peer at me like I am a Marsman or somethin. Then the feller with the
 moustache speaks up and followin this the judge tells him to take me to the
 toilet, which he does. I look back as we leavin the room an see po ole Mama
 holdin her head an daubin at her eyes with the handkerchief.
 Anyhow, when I get back, the judge be scratchin his chin an he say the
 whole deal is "very peculiar," but that he think I ought to go in the Army or
 somethin which might hep straighten me out. My mama inform him that the
 United States Army won
s okay with him so
 long as I get my big ass out of town.
 The nex mornin I am all packed up an Mama, she take me to the bus
 station an put me on the bus. I is lookin out the winder an there is Mama,
 cryin an wipin her eyes with her handkerchief. That is gettin to be a scene I
 know too well. It is stamped permanant into my memory. Anyhow, they
 started up the bus, an away I went.
3
 WHEN WE GIT UP TO THE UNIVERSITY, COACH BRYANT HE come
 out to the gym where we all settin in our shorts and sweatshirts an begin
 makin a speech. It bout the same kind of speech Coach Fellers would make,
 cept even a simpleton like mysef could tell this man mean bidness! His
 speech short an sweet, an conclude with the statement that the last man on the
 bus to the practice field will get a ride there not on the bus, but on Coach
 Bryant
Ape Dorm.
s you don
m tole.
 I went to sleep on my cot after spreadin a sheet over it to cover up the
 dirt, an was havin a dream bout settin down in the parlor with my mama like
 we use to do when it was hot, an she
t very tall, but he look like an icebox otherwise. First thing he axe
 me is where I
candyass
s from Opp, where they make peanut butter, an if I don
s goons runnin roun scowlin an yellin at us an
 makin us exercise. My tongue hangin down like it was a necktie or somethin,
 but I tryin to do the right thing. Finally they divides up everbody an puts me
 with backs an we start to run pass patterns.
 Now before I come up to the University, they done sent me a package
 which contain about a million different football plays, an I done axed Coach
 Fellers what I
 advice now, cause when I run out
for my first pass I done turned the wrong way an the head goon come rushin
 up hollerin an shoutin at me an when he stop shoutin he axed me don
Uh, uh,
m runnin the laps and watchin the goon clime up there, an
 when he get to the top an say his piece, Coach Bryant crane his neck forward
 an I feel his eyes burnin hot on my big stupid ass. Suddenly a voice come
 over a megaphone for everbody to hear, say, "Forrest Gump, report to the
 coachin tower," an I seen Coach Bryant an the goon climin down. All the
 time I be runnin over there I am wishin I were runnin backwards instead.
 But imagine my surprise when I see Coach Bryant smilin. He motion me
 over to some bleachers an we set down an he axed me again if I
t want to hear,
 which was that I had never even caught a pass at highschool, cause they
 figgered it hard enough to get me to remember where our own goaline is, let
 alone runnin aroun tryin to grap the ball outta the air too.
 At this news, Coach Bryant get a real odd squint in his eyes, an he look
 off in the distance, as if he was lookin all the way to the moon or somethin.
 Then he tell the goon to go fetch a football an when the football come, Coach
 Bryant hissef tell me to run out a little ways an turn aroun. When I do, he
 thowed the football at me. I see it comin almost like slow-motion but it
 bounce off my fingers an fall on the ground. Coach Bryant be noddin his
 head up an down like he should of figgered this out earlier, but somehow I
 get the idea he is not pleased.
 From the time I
d
 say, "Forrest, you got to be careful, cause they gonna put you away." I was so
 scairt of bein put in this "away" place I
m
 damned if there
m livin in.
 People be doin shit they wouldn
s you
t
 fine nothin but a hole in the floor to shit in, an they
s car drivin past. One night some big
 ole goofball what played in the line got out a rifle an commence to shoot out
 all the winders in somebody
t gettin along so hot, an I never been so lonely. I miss
 my mama, an wanta go back home. Trouble with Curtis is, I don
t happy bout somethin.
 Curtis had a car an he used to give me a ride to practice, but one day I go
 to meet him an he cussin an growlin an bent over a big drain grate in the
 street. Seems he
s I say to Curtis, "Why don

 Curtis stop cussin for a moment an look up at me an say, 
 An I say, 
t stupid," an at this, Curtis jump up an commence chasin me with
 the tire tool, callin me ever terrible thing he can think up, an that pretty much
 ruin our relationship.
 After that, I decide I got to find another place to stay, so when we git off
 from practice I gone down into the basement of the Ape Dorm an spen the
 rest of the night there. It wadn
d appreciate he is consumed with playin football an cannot spend much
 of his time on school. They was one of these teachers in the science
 department, but unfortunately, the only class he taught was somethin called
 "Intermediate Light," which was apparently for graduate physics majors or
 something. But they put me in there anyhow, even though I didn
s they tole me just to go ahead
 an take the class an fail it, an they
s name, an after the first
 test, he axed me to come to his office after class. He say, "Forrest, I want you
 to tell me the truth, did somebody provide you the answers to these
 questions?" An I shake my head, an then he han me a sheet of paper with a
 problem written on it and says for me to set down an figger it out. When I
Greatgodamighty.
s
 jus bout the most difficult thing I ever try to do, but I stay up most of the
 night, thinkin an writin, an I just say whatever come to mine on account of
 they tole me to fail the class anyhow.
 A few days later, Mister Boone start handin back our papers an he
criticism an makin fun of everbody
m in the doghouse for sure. But he hold up my paper an
 start readin it out loud to everbody an he commences laughin an everbody
 else is too. I had tole bout bein in the nut school, an playin football for Coach
 Fellers an goin to the All State Football banquet, an about the daft board, an
 Jenny Curran an the movie an all. When he
Now
 here is originality! Here is what I want,
Mister Gump, you ought to think about gettin into the creative
 writing department—how did you think this up?
I got to pee.
Mister Gump, you are a very amusing
 feller.
m there a wile when I hear this kind of music
 comin from someplace upstairs and it
t know why,
 but I went on up there to find out what it was.
 There was this guy, Bubba, settin in his room playin a mouth organ. He
t play an didn
t talk or nothing, he jus settin
 on one cot an me on the other, an he
Okay.
d played aroun on the thing for a wile, I got to where
s never heard such good shit.
After it got late, Bubba says for me to take the harmonica with me, an I did,
 an played it a long time, till I got sleepy and went to bed.
 Next day, Sunday, I went to take the harmonica back to Bubba but he say
 for me to keep it, cause he got another one, an I was real happy, an went for a
 walk an set down under a tree an played all day long, till I run out of things to
 play.
 It was late in the afternoon, an the sun was almost gone when I begun to
 walk back to the Ape Dorm. I was goin across the Quadrangle when suddenly
 I hear this girl
Forrest!
t mad or anythin bout what happen in the movie, an says it
 ain
Cola with her.
 It was too nice to believe, settin there with Jenny Curran, an she say she
 takin classes in music an drama an that she plannin on bein a actress or a
 singer. She also playin in a little band that do folk music stuff, an tells me
 they gonna be at the Student Union buildin tomorrow night an for me to
 come by. Let me tell you, I can hardly wait.
4
 NOW THERE IS A SECRET THING THAT COACH BRYANT AN them
 done figgered out, an nobody sposed to mention it, even to ourselfs. They
 been teachin me how to catch a football pass. Ever day after practice I been
 workin with two goons an a quarterback, runnin out an catchin passes, runnin
 out an catchin passes, till I
secret weapon
Adam Bomb,
t thowin me the ball
 an will not be watchin for it.
 "Then," Coach Bryant say, "we is gonna turn your big ass loose—six foot
 six, two hundrit forty pounds—an run the hundrit yards in 9.5 seconds flat. It
 is gonna be a sight!"
 Bubba an me is real good friends by now, an he heped me learn some
 new songs on the harmonica. Sometimes he come down to the basement and
 we set aroun an play along together, but Bubba say I am far better than he
 ever will be. I got to tell you, that if it weren
t sure what happen, but I had pulled out my harmonica an was jus playin
 along with them.
 It was the strangest thing. Jenny was singin "Blowin in the Wind" an
 when I begun to play, she stopped for a secont, an the banjo player, he
 stopped too, an they get this very suprised looks on they faces, an then Jenny
 give a big grin an she commence to pick up the song again, an the banjo
 player, he stop an give me a chance to ride my harmonica for a wile, an
 everbody in the crowd begun to clap an cheer when I was done. Jenny come
 down from the stage after that an the band take a break an she say, "Forrest,
 what in the world? Where you learn to play that thing?" Anyhow, after that,
 Jenny got me to play with their band. It was ever Friday, an when there
 wasn
Mister Gump, I believe it is time for you to stop tryin to be
 amusin and start gettin serious.
The Romantic Period,
did not follow a bunch of 'classic
 bullshit.' Nor were the poets Pope and Dryden a couple of 'turds.' 
m beginnin to realize Mister
 Boone don
m a idiot, but he was bout to find out.
 Meantime, somebody must of said somethin to somebody, cause one day
 my guidance counselor at the atheletic department call me in an tells me I
s sayin a whole bunch of crap I don
s talkin bout me.
 "Idiot savant," he say loudly, an everbody be starin my way.
 "A person who cannot tie a necktie, who can barely lace up his shoes,
 who has the mental capacity of perhaps a six- to ten-year-old, and—in this
 case—the body of, well, an Adonis." Doctor Mills be smilin at me in a way I
 don
m stuck, I guess.
 "But the mind," he says, "the mind of the idiot savant has rare pockets of
 brilliance, so that Forrest here can solve advanced mathematical equations
 that would stump any of you, and he can pick up complex musical themes
 with the ease of Liszt or Beethoven. Idiot savant," he says again, sweepin his
 han in my direction.
 I ain
m sposed to do, but he had said for me to play
 somethin, so I pull out the harmonica an start playin "Puff, the Magic
 Dragon." Everbody settin there watchin me like I
s over they still jus settin there lookin at me—don
t like it, so I stood up an said, "Thanks," an I
 lef. Shit on them people.
 They is only two more things the rest of that school term that was even
 halfway important. The first was when we won the National College Football
 Championship an went to the Orange Bowl, an the second was when I found
out Jenny Curran was screwin the banjo player.
 It was the night we was sposed to play at a fraternity house party at the
 University. We had had a terribily hard practice that afternoon, an I was so
 thirsty I coulda drank out of the toilet like a dog. But they was this little stow
 five or six blocks from the Ape Dorm an after practice I walked on up there
 fixin to git me some limes and some sugar an fix me a limeade like my mama
 used to make for me. They is a ole cross-eyed woman behin the counter an
 she look at me like I
m lookin for the limes an
 after a wile she says, "Kin I hep you?" an I says, "I want some limes," an she
 tells me they ain
s
 thinkin a lemonade would do, but they ain
t that kind of stow. I musta look aroun maybe an
 hour or mo, an the woman be gettin nervous, an finally she say, "Ain
 so I get a can of peaches off the shef, an some sugar,
 thinkin if I can't have anythin else I can maybe make me a peachade—or
 somethin, I bout dyin of thirst. When I git back to my basement I open the
 can with a knife an squash the peaches up inside one of my socks an strain it
 into a jar. Then I put in some water an sugar an get it stirred up, but I'll tell
 you what—it don't taste nothin like a limeade—matter of fact, it taste more
 than anythin else like hot socks.
 Anyhow, I sposed to be at the fraternity house at seven o'clock an when I
 get there some of the fellers is settin up the stuff an all, but Jenny and the
 banjo guy are nowhere to be found. I assed aroun for a wile, an then I went
 out to get mysef some fresh air in the parkin lot. I saw Jenny's car, an thought
 maybe she just get here.
 All the winders in the car is steamed up, so's you can't see inside. Well,
 all of a sudden I think maybe she's in there an can't git out, an maybe gettin
 that exhaust poison or somethin, so I open the door an look in. When I do, the
 light come on.
 There she is, lying on the back seat, the top of her dress pulled down an
 the bottom pulled up. Banjo player there too, on top of her. Jenny seen me an
 start screamin an flailin jus like she done in the pitcher show, an it suddenly
 occur to me that maybe she bein molested, so's I grapped the banjo player by
 his shirt, which was all he's got on anyhow, an snatched his ass off her.
Well, it did not take no idiot to figger out that I gone an done the wrong
 thing again. Jesus Christ, you can't imagine such carryin on. He cussin me,
 she cussin me an tryin to git her dress pulled up an down, an finally Jenny
 say, 
 an walk off. Banjo player pick up his
 banjo an leave too.
 Anyhow, after that, it were apparent I was not welcome to play in the
 little band no more, an I went on back to the basement. I still couldn't
 understan exactly what had been goin on, but later that night Bubba seen my
 light on an he stop down an when I tell him bout the thing, he say, 
 Well, I reckon I might have
 figgered that out mysef, but to be honest, it was not somethin I wanted to
 know. Sometimes, however, a man got to look at the facts.
 It is probly a good thing I was kep busy playin football, cause it was such
 a awful feelin, realizin Jenny was doin that with the banjo player, an that she
 probly hadn't even a thought bout me in that regard. But by this time we was
 undefeated the entire season an was goin to play for the National
 Championship at the Orange Bowl against them corn shuckers from
 Nebraska. It was always a big thing when we played a team from up North
 cause for sure they would have colored on their side, an that be a reason for a
 lot of consternation from some of the guys—like my ex-roomate Curtis, for
 example—altho I never worried bout it mysef, on account of most of the
 colored I ever met be nicer to me than white people.
 Anyhow, we gone on down to the Orange Bowl in Miami, an come game
 time, we is some kind of stirred up. Coach Bryant come in the locker room an
 don't say much, cept that if we want to win, we got to play hard, or somesuch,
 an then we be out on the field an they kicked off to us. The ball come directly
 to me an I grap it outta the air an run straight into a pile of Nebraska corn
 shucker niggers an big ole white boys that weigh about 500 pounds apiece.
 It were that way the whole afternoon. At halftime, they was ahead 28 to 7
 an we was a forelorn an sorry lot of guys. Coach Bryant come into the
 dressing room an he be shakin his head like he expected all along that we was
 goin to let him down. Then he start drawin on the chalk board and talkin to
 Snake, the quarterback, an some of the others, an then he call out my name an
 axe me to come with him into the hallway.

 he says, 
 His face right up against
 mine, an I feel his breath hot on my cheeks. 
 he say, 

 I nod my head, an then it be time to get back on the field. Everbody be
 hollerin an cheerin, but I sort of feel they is a unfair burden on my shoulders.
 What the hell, tho—that's jus the way it is sometimes.
 First play when we git the ball, Snake, the quarterback, say in the huddle,
 
 an he says to me, 
 An damn if it wadn't!
 Score is 28 to 14 all of a sudden.
 We play real good after that, cept them Nebraska corn jerkoff niggers an
 big ole dumb white boys, they ain't jus settin there observin the scene. They
 has got some tricks of they own—mainly like runnin all over us as if we was
 made of cardboard or somethin.
 But they is still somewhat suprised that I can catch the ball, an after I
 catch it four or five more times, an the score is 28 to 21, they begin to put two
 fellers to chasin after me. However, that leave Gwinn, the end, with nobody
 much to chase him aroun, an he catch Snake's pass an put us on the fifteen
 yard line. Weasel, the place kicker, get a field goal an the score now be 28 to
 24.
 On the sideline, Coach Bryant come up to me an say, 
 He pat me on the head then, like I was a dog, an back in the game I go.
 The Snake, he get caught behin the line right at the first play, an the clock
 is runnin out fast. On the second play, he try to fake em out by handin me the
 ball, sted of thowin it, but bout two tons of Nebraska corn jackoff beef, black
 an white, fall on top of me right away. I lying there, flat on my back, thinkin
what it must of been like when that netload of bananas fall on my daddy, an
 then I gone back in the huddle again.
 
 Snake says, 
 Snake's eyes are wild as a tiger's. I
 nod my head, an do as I am tole.
 Sure enough, Snake heaves the ball into my hans an I be tearin toward the
 middle of the field with the goalposts straight ahead. But all of a sudden a
 giant man come flyin into me and slow me down, an then all the Nebraska
 corn jerkoff niggers an big ole dumb white boys in the world start grappin an
 gougin an stompin on me an I fall down. Damn! We ain't got but a few yards
 to go fore winnin the game. When I git off my back, I see Snake got
 everbody line up already for the last play, on accounta we got no more time
outs. Soon as I git to my place, he calls for the snap an I run out, but he
 suddenly thowed the ball bout 20 feet over my head, outta bounds on purpose
 —to stop the clock I guess, which only has 2 or 3 seconts lef on it.
 Unfortunately tho, Snake done got confused about things, I spose he's
 thinkin it third down an we got one more play lef, but in fact it were forth
 down, an so we lose the ball an also, of course, we lose the game. It sound
 like somethin I woulda done.
 Anyhow, it was extra sad for me, cause I kinda figgered Jenny Curran
 was probly watchin the game an maybe if I done got the ball and win the
 game, she try to forgive me for doin what I done to her. But that were not to
 be. Coach Bryant were mighty unhappy over what happen, but he suck it up
 an say, 
s always nex year."
 Cept for me, that is. That was not to be either.
5
 AFTER THE ORANGE BOWL, THE ATHELETIC DEPARTMENT get my
 grades for the first term, an it ain
Forrest,
I can understan how you flunked remedial English, but
 it will mystify me to the end of my days how you managed to get an A in
 something called Intermediate Light, an then an F in phys-ed class—when
 you is jus been named the Most Valuable College Back in the Southeastern
 Conference!
Forrest,
I regret awfully havin to tell you this, but you is
 done flunked out of school, an there is nothin I can do.
t gonna get to play no more football. I got to leave the
 University. Maybe I never see any of the other guys no more. Maybe I never
 see Jenny Curran no more either. I got to move outta my basement, an I won
t realize it, but tears begun comin to my eyes. I ain
Forrest, it okay, son. When you first come here, I expect
 somethin like this would happen. But I tole em then, I said, just give me that
 boy for one season—that is all I ask. Well, Forrest, we has had ourselfs one
 hell of a season. That is for sure. An it certainly weren't your fault that Snake
 thowed the ball out of bounds on forth down....
s eyes, too, an he is lookin
 at me real hard.
 "Forrest," he say, "there has never been nobody like you ever played ball
at this school, an there won

 Then Coach go over an stand lookin out the winder, an he say, 

 An so I had to leave the University.
 I gone back an pack up my shit in the basement. Bubba come down an he
 done brought two beers an give one to me. I ain't never drank a beer, but I can
 see how a feller could acquire a taste for it.
 Bubba walk with me outside the Ape Dorm, an lo an behole, who should
 be standin there but the entire football team.
 They is very quiet, an Snake, he come up an shake my han an say,
 
 An I says, 
 An then they all come up, one by one, an shake my han, even ole
 Curtis, who is wearin a body brace from his neck down on accounta bashin
 down one door too many in the Ape Dorm.
 Bubba say he'd hep me carry my shit down to the bus depot, but I say I'd
 rather go alone. 
 he say. Anyhow, on the way to the bus
 station, I pass by the Student Union store, but it ain't Friday night, an Jenny
 Curran's band is not playin, so I say, the hell with it, an catch the bus on
 home.
 It was late at night when the bus got to Mobile. I had not tole my mama
 what had happened, cause I knew she'd be upset, so I walk on home, but they
 is a light on up in her room an when I get inside, they she is, crying and
 bawling jus like I remember. What had happen, she tell me, is that the United
 States Army has already heard bout me not makin my grades, an that very
 day a notice done come for me to report to the U.S. Army Induction Center.
 If I had known then what I know now, I would never had done it.
 My mama take me down there a few days later. She has packed me a box
 lunch in case I get hungry on the way to wherever we is going. They is about
 a hundrit guys standin aroun an four or five busses waiting. A big ole
 sergeant be hollerin an yellin at everbody, an Mama goes up to him an says,
 
t see how you can take my boy—cause he
 but the sergeant
jus look back at her an say, 
 an he gone on back to hollerin an yellin. Pretty soon he
 yell at me, too, an I git on the bus an away we went.
 Ever since I lef the nut school people been shoutin at me—Coach Fellers,
 Coach Bryant an the goons, an now the people in the Army. But let me say
 this: them people in the Army yell longer an louder an nastier than anybody
 else. They is never happy. An furthermore, they do not complain that you is
 dumb or stupid like coaches do—they is more interested in your private parts
 or bowel movements, an so always precede they yellin with somethin like
 
 or 
 Sometimes I wonder if Curtis had been in the Army
 before he went to play football.
 Anyhow, after about a hundrit hours on the bus we get to Fort Benning,
 Georgia, an all I'm thinkin is 35 to 3, the score when we whupped them
 Georgia Dogs. The conditions in the barracks is actually a little better than
 they was in the Ape Dorm, but the food is not—it is terrible, altho there is a
 lot of it.
 Other than that, it was just doin what they tole us an gettin yelled at in the
 months to come. They taught us to shoot guns, thow hand grenades an crawl
 aroun on our bellies. When we wadn't doin that we was either runnin
 someplace or cleanin toilets an things. The one thing I remember from Fort
 Benning is that they didn't seem to be nobody much smarter than I was,
 which was certainly a relief.
 Not too long after I arrive, I get put on KP, on account of I have
 accidentally shot a hole in the water tower when we was down at the rifle
 range. When I get to the kitchen, it seems the cook is took sick or somethin,
 an somebody point to me an say, 

 
m gonna cook?" I axed. "I ain

 
 somebody say. 
t the Sans Souci, y

 
t you make a stew?" somebody else say. "It

 
 I axed.
 
 the feller say. 

 
t taste good?" I axed.
 "Who gives a shit. You ever eat anythin around here that did?"
 In this, he is correct.
 Well, I commenced to get everthin I could from the iceboxes an the
 pantry. They was cans of tomatos an beans an peaches an bacon an rice an
 bags of flour an sacks of potatoes an I don
What I'm gonna cook it in?
They is some pots in the closet,
Why don't you axe the lieutenant?
He's out in the field on maneuvers,
I don't know,
but when them guys get back here today,
 they gonna be damn hungry, so you better think of somethin.
What about this?
That? That's the goddamn steam boiler. You can't cook nothin in there.
How come,
Well, I dunno. I jus wouldn do it if I was you.
It's hot. It's got water in it,
Do what you want,
we got other shit to do.
How's the dinner comin?
I'll go taste it,
Let me taste it,
Say, this shit ain't near done yet,
You better turn up the heat.
 Them fellers'll be here any minute.
t long afterward that they
 begun arrivin in the mess hall.
 But the stew still wadnt ready. I tasted it again an some things was still
 raw. Out in the mess hall they begun a kind of disgruntled mumblin that soon
 turned to chantin an so I turned the boiler up again.
 After a haf hour or so, they was beatin on the tables with they knives an
 forks like in a prison riot, an I knowed I had to do somethin fast, so I turned
 the boiler up high as it could go.
 I
t know what to do, when all
 of a sudden the first sergeant come bustin thru the door.
 "What in hell is goin on here?" he axed. "Where is these men

 
 I say, an jus about then, the boiler
 commenced to rumble an shake. Steam begun to come out of the sides an one
 of the legs on the boiler tore loose from the floor.
 
 the sergeant axed. 

 
 I says, an the sergeant got this real amazed look on
 his face, an a secont later, he got a real frightened look, like you might get jus
 before an automobile wreck, an then the boiler blew up.
 I am not exactly sure what happened nex. I do remember that it blowed
 the roof off the mess hall an blowed all the winders out an the doors too.
 It blowed the dishwasher guy right thru a wall, an the guy what was
 stackin plates jus took off up in the air, sort of like Rocket Man.
Sergeant an me, we is miraculously spared somehow, like they say will
 happen when you are so close to a han grenade that you aren't hurt by it. But
 somehow it blowed both our clothes off, cept for the big chef's hat I was
 wearin at the time. An it blowed stew all over us, so's we looked like—well, I
 don't know what we looked like—but man, it was strange.
 Incredibly, it didn't do nothin to all them guys settin out there in the mess
 hall neither. Jus lef em settin at they tables, covered with stew, actin kinda
 shell-shocked or somethin—but it sure did shut their asses up about when
 they food is gonna be ready.
 Suddenly the company commander come runnin into the buildin.
 
 he shouted. 
 He look at the two of us,
 an then holler, 

 
 the sergeant say, an then he kind of git holt of
 hissef an grapped a meat cleaver off the wall.
 
 he scream, an come after me with the cleaver. I
 done run out the door, an he be chasin me all over the parade grounds, an
 even thru the Officer's Club an the Motorpool. I outrunned him tho, cause
 that is my specialty, but let me say this: they ain't no question in my mind that
 I am up the creek for sure.
 One night, the next fall, the phone rung in the barracks an it was Bubba.
 He say they done dropped his atheletic scholarship cause his foot broke worst
 than they thought, an so he's leavin school too. But he axed if I can git off to
 come up to Birmingham to watch the University play them geeks from
 Mississippi. But I am confined to quarters that Saturday, as I have been ever
 weekend since the stew blowed up and that's nearly a year. Anyway, I cannot
 do it, so I listen to the game on the radio while I'm scrubbin out the latrine.
 The score is very close at the end of the third quarter, an Snake is having
 hissef a big day. It is 38 to 37 our way, but the geeks from Mississippi score a
 touchdown with only one minute to go. Suddenly, its forth down an no more
 time-outs for us. I prayin silently that Snake don't do what he done at the
 Orange Bowl, which is to thow the ball out of bounds on fourth down an lose
the game again, but that is exactly what he done.
 My heart sunk low, but suddenly they is all sorts of cheering so's you
 can't hear the radio announcer an when it is all quieted down, what happened
 was this: the Snake done faked an out of bounds pass on fourth down to stop
 the clock, but he actually give the ball to Curtis who run it in for the winning
 touchdown. That will give you some idea of jus how crafty Coach Bryant is.
 He done already figgered them geeks from Mississippi is so dumb they will
 assume we is stupid enough to make the same mistake twice.
 I'm real happy bout the game, but I'm wonderin if Jenny Curran is
 watchin, an if she is thinkin of me.
 As it turned out, it don't matter anyhow, cause a month later we is
 shipped out. For nearly a year we has been trained like robots an are going to
 somewhere 10,000 miles away, an that is no exaggeration. We is going to
 Vietnam, but they says it is not nearly as bad as what we has gone thru this
 past year. As it turn out, tho, that is an exaggeration.
 We got there in February an was trucked on cattle cars from Qui Nhon on
 the South China Sea coast up to Pleiku in the highlands. It wadnt a bad ride
 an the scenery was nice an interestin, with banana trees an palms an rice
 paddies with little gooks plowin in them. Everbody on our side is real
 friendly, too, wavin at us an all.
 We could see Pleiku almost haf a day away on account of a humongus
 cloud of red dust that hovered over it. On its outskirts was sad little shanties
 that is worst than anythin I seen back in Alabama, with folks huddled neath
 cloth lean-to's an they ain't got no teeth an they children ain't got no clothes
 an basically, they is beggars. When we get to the Brigade Headquarters an
 Firebase, it don't look real bad either, cept for all that red dust. Ain't nothin
 much going on that we can see, an the place is all neat an clean with tents
 stretched far as you can see in rows an the dirt an sand aroun them raked up
 nice an tidy. Don't hardly look like a war going on at all. We might as well of
 been back at Fort Benning.
 Anyhow, they says it is real quiet cause it is the beginning of the gook
 new years—Tet, or somesuch—an they is a truce goin on. All of us is
tremendously relieved, because we is frightened enough as it is. The peace
 and quiet, however, did not last very long.
 After we get squared away in our area, they tell us to go down to Brigade
 Showers an clean ourselfs. Brigade Showers is just a shallow pit in the groun
 where they has put three or four big water tank trucks an we tole to fold our
 uniforms up on the edge of the pit an then get down in there an they will
 squirt us with water.
 Even so, it ain't haf bad, account of we been for nearly a week without a
 bath, an was beginnin to smell pretty ripe. We is assin aroun in the pit, gettin
 hosed down an all, an it is jus bout gettin dark, an all of a sudden there is this
 funny soun in the air an some jackoff who is squirting us with the hose holler,
 
 and everbody on the edge of the pit vanish into thin air. We
 standin there butt neckid, lookin at each other, an then they is a big explosion
 close by an then another one, an everbody start shoutin and cussin an tryin to
 get to they clothes. Them incomin explosions fallin all aroun us, an
 somebody shoutin, 
 which was kind of rediculous since we was
 all press so flat in the bottom of the pit by now we resemble worms rather
 than people.
 One of them explosions send a bunch of shit flyin into our pit an them
 boys on the far side get hit with it an start screamin an yellin an bleedin an
 grappin at theyselfs. It were all too apparent that the pit was not a safe place
 to be hidin. Sergeant Kranz suddenly appear over the edge of the pit, an he
 holler for all us to get the hell out of there an follow him. There is a little
 break between explosions an we haul ass out of the pit. I come over the top
 an look down an godamighty! Lyin there is four or five of the fellers who was
 squirtin the hose on us. They is hardly recognizable as people—all mangled
 up like they has been stuffed thru a cotton baler or somethin. I ain't never
 seen nobody dead, an it is the most horrible and scary thing ever happen to
 me, afore or since!
 Sergeant Kranz motion for us to crawl after him, which we do. If you
 could of looked down on it from above, we must of made a sight! A hundrit
 fifty or so fellers all butt neckid squirmin along the groun in a long line.
 They was a bunch of foxholes dug in a row an Sergeant Kranz put three
 or four of us in each hole. But soon as we get in em, I realize I'd of almost
rather stayed back in the pit. Them foxholes was filled waist stinkin deep
 with slimy ole water from the rain, an they was all sorts of frawgs an snakes
 and bugs crawlin an leapin an squirmin aroun in them.
 It went on the entire night, an we had to stay in them foxholes an didn't
 get no supper. Jus afore dawn, the shellin eased up, an we was tole to haul
 our asses outta the foxholes an get our clothes an weapons an prepare for the
 attack.
 Since we was relatively new, they was really not much we could do—
 they didn't even know where to put us, so they tole us to go guard the south
 perimeter, which is where the officers' latrine was located. But it were nearly
 worse than the foxholes, account of one of the bombs has hit the latrine an
 blowed up about five hundrit pounds of officer shit all over the area.
 We had to stay there all that day, no breakfast, no lunch; an then at
 sundown they commenced shellin us again so we had to lie there in all that
 shit. My, my, it were repulsive.
 Finally somebody remember we might be gettin hungry, an had a bunch
 of c-ration cases brought over. I got the cold ham an eggs that was dated
 1951 on the can. They was all kinds of rumors goin on. Somebody said the
 gooks was runnin over the town of Pleiku. Somebody else says the gooks got
 a atomic bomb an is just shellin us with mortars to soften us up. Somebody
 else says it ain't the gooks shellin us at all, but Austrailians, or maybe the
 Dutch or the Norwegians. I figger it don't matter who it is. Shit on rumors.
 Anyhow, after the first day, we begun tryin to make ourselfs a livable
 place on the south perimeter. We dug us foxholes an used the boards an tin
 from the officers' latrine to make us little hooches. The attack never come
 tho, an we never saw no gooks to shoot at. I figger maybe they smart enough
 not to attack a shithouse anyway. Ever night for about three or four days they
 shellin us tho, an finally one mornin when the shellin stops, Major Balls, the
 battalion executive officer, come crawlin up to our company commander an
 say we has got to go up north to help out another brigade that is catchin hell
 in the jungle.
 After a wile, Lieutenant Hooper say for us to 
 an everbody
 stuffin as many c-rations an han grenades in his pockets as he can—which
actually present sort of a dilemma, since you can't eat a han grenade but you
 might nevertheless come to need it. Anyway, they load us on the heliocopters
 an off we flew.
 You could see the shit Third Brigade had stepped into even fore the
 heliocopters landed. They was all sorts of smoke an stuff risin up outta the
 jungle an huge chunks had been blown outta the groun. We had not even got
 to earth afore they commenced shootin at us. They blowed up one of our
 heliocopters in the air, an it was a dreadful sight, people set on fire an all, an
 nothin we could do.
 I am the machine gun ammo bearer, cause they figger I can carry a lot of
 shit on account of my size. Before we lef, a couple of other fellers axed if I
 would mind carryin some of their han grenades so's they could carry more
 orations, an I agreed. It didn't hurt me none. Also, Sergeant Kranz made me
 carry a ten-gallon water can that weighed about fifty pounds. Then jus fore
 we lef, Daniels, who carries the tri-pod for the machine gun, he gets the runs
 an he can't go, so's I got to tote the tri-pod too. When it all added up, I might
 as well of been toting aroun one a them Nebraska corn shucker jackoffs as
 well. But this ain't no football game.
 It is gettin to be dusk an we is tole to go up to a ridge an relieve Charlie
 Company which is either pinned down by the gooks or has got the gooks
 pinned down, dependin on whether you get your news from the Stars an
 Stripes or by just lookin aroun at what the hell is goin on.
 In any event, when we get up there, all sorts of crap is flyin aroun an they
 is about a dozen fellers badly hurt an moanin and cryin an they is so much
 noise from all quarters that nobody can hardly hear nothin. I be crouchin
 down real low an tryin to get all that ammo an the water can an the tri-pod
 plus all my own shit up to where Charlie Company is, an I'm strugglin past a
 slit trench when this guy down in it pipe up an say to the other, 
 and I'm bout
 to say somethin back, cause things seem bad enough already without nobody
 pokin fun at you—but then, I'll be damned! The other guy in the slit trench
 suddenly jump up an cry out, 

Lo an behole, it were Bubba.
 Briefly, what had happen was that even if Bubba's foot was hurt too bad
 to play football, it were not bad enough to keep from gettin him sent halfway
 roun the earth on behalf of the United States Army. Anyhow, I drag my sorry
 butt an everthin else up to where I sposed to be, an after a wile Bubba come
 up there an in between the shellin (which stop ever time our airplanes appear)
 Bubba an me caught up with each other.
 He tells me he hear Jenny Curran done quit school an gone off with a
 bunch of war protesters or somethin. He also say that Curtis done beat up a
 campus policeman one day for givin him a parkin ticket, an was in the
 process of drop-kickin his official ass aroun the campus when the authorities
 show up an thowed a big net over Curtis an drug him off. Bubba say Coach
 Bryant make Curtis run fifty extra laps after practice as punishment.
 Good ole Curtis.
6
 THAT NIGHT WAS LONG AN UNCOMFORTABLE. WE couldn't fly our
 airplanes, so's they got to shell us most of the evenin for free. They was a
 little saddle between two ridges, an they was on one ridge an we on the other,
 an down in the saddle was where the dispute were takin place—tho what
 anybody would want with that piece of mud an dirt, I do not know. However,
 Sergeant Kranz have said to us time an again that we was not brought over
 here to understand what is goin on, only to do what we is tole.
 Pretty soon, Sergeant Kranz come up an start tellin us what to do. He says
 we has got to move the machine gun about fifty meters aroun to the lef of a
 big ole tree stickin up in the middle of the saddle, an fine a good safe place to
 put it so's we is not all blowed away. From what I can see an hear, anyplace,
 includin where we presently are, is not safe, but to go down in that saddle is
 goddamn absurd. However, I am tryin to do the right thing.
 Me an Bones, the machine gunner, an Doyle, another ammo bearer, an
 two other guys crawl out of our holes an start to moving down the little slope.
 Halfway down, the gooks see us an commence to shootin with they own
 machine gun. Fore anything bad happens, tho, we has scrambled down the
 slope an into the jungle. I cannot remember how far a meter is exactly, but it
 almost the same as a yard, so when we get near the big tree, I say to Doyle,
 
 an he look at me real hard-like, an growl, 
 Sure nuf, they was six or eight gooks
 squattin under the big ole tree, havin they lunch. Doyle take a han grenade an
 pull the pin an sort of lob it into the air toward the tree. It blowed up fore it
 hit the groun an they is all sorts of wild chatterin from where the gooks is—
 then Bones open up with the machine gun an me an the two other guys heave
 in a couple more han grenades for good measure. All of that gone down in
 just a minute or so, an when it come quiet again, we be on our way.
 We foun a place to put the gun an stayed there till it got dark—an all
 night long, too, but nothin happen. We could hear all sorts of shit goin on
 everplace else, but we be lef to ourselfs. Sunup come, an we hungry an tired,
 but there we is. Then a runner come from Sergeant Kranz who say Charlie
Company is goin to start movin into the saddle soon as our airplanes have
 totally wiped out the gooks there, which is to be in a few minutes. Sure
 enough, the planes come an drop they shit an everthin get exploded an wipe
 out all the gooks.
 We can see Charlie Company movin off the ridge line, comin down into
 the saddle, but no sooner does they get over the edge of the ridge an start
 strugglin along the slope, than all the weapons in the world commence to
 shootin at Charlie Company an droppin mortars an all, an it is terrible
 confusion. From where we is, we cannot see any gooks, on account of the
 jungle is thick as bonfire brush, but somebody sure be in there shootin at
 Charlie Company. Maybe it the Dutch—or even the Norwegians—who
 knows?
 Bones, the machine gunner, lookin extremely nervous durin all this, on
 accounta he's already figgered out that the shootin is comin from in front of
 us, meanin that the gooks is in between us an our own position. In other
 words, we is out here alone. Sooner or later, he says, if the gooks do not
 overrun Charlie Company, they will come back this way, an if they find us
 here, they will not like it one bit. Point is, we got to move our asses.
 We get our shit together an begin to work back towards the ridge, but as
 we do, Doyle suddenly look down off our right to the bottom of the saddle an
 he see an entire busload of new gooks, armed to the teeth, movin up the hill
 towards Charlie Company. Best thing we coulda done then was to try an
 make friends with em an forget all this other shit, but that were not in the
 cards. So we jus hunkered down in some big ole shrubs an waited till they got
 to the top of the hill. Then Bones let loose with the machine gun and he must
 of kilt ten or fifteen of them gooks right off. Doyle an me an the other two
 guys is thowin grenades, an things is goin our way until Bones runs out of
 ammo an need a fresh belt. I feed one in for him, but just as he bout to sqeeze
 the trigger, a gook bullet hit him square in the head an blowed it inside out.
 He lyin on the ground, han still holdin to the gun for dear life, which he does
 not have any more of now.
 Oh God, it were awful—an gettin worst. No tellin what them gooks
 would of done if they caught us. I call out to Doyle to come here, but they is
no answer. I jerk the machine gun from po ole Bones' fingers an squirm over
 to Doyle, but he an the two other guys layin there shot. They dead, but Doyle
 still breathin, so's I grap him up an thow him over my shoulder like a flour
 sack an start runnin thru the brush towards Charlie Company, cause I scared
 outta my wits. I runnin for maybe twenty yards an bullets wizzin all aroun me
 from behin, an I figger I be shot in the ass for sure. But then I crash thru a
 canebreak an come upon a area with low grass an to my surprise it is filled
 with gooks, lyin down, lookin the other way, an shootin at Charlie Company
 —I guess.
 Now what do I do? I got gooks behin me, gooks in front of me an gooks
 right under my feet. I don't know what else to do, so I charge up full speed an
 start to bellowin an howlin an all. I sort of lose my head, I guess, cause I don't
 remember what happen nex cept I still be bellowin an hollerin loud as I can
 an runnin for dear life. Everthin were completely confused, an then all of a
 sudden I am in the middle of Charlie Company an everbody be slappin me on
 the back jus like I made a touchdown.
 It seem like I done frightened off the gooks an they hightail it back to
 wherever they live. I put down Doyle on the groun an the medics come an
 start fixin him up, an pretty soon the Charlie Company commander come up
 to me an start pumpin my han an tellin me what a good fellow I am. Then he
 say, 
 He be waitin for a answer, but I
 don't know how I done it mysef, so I says, 
—which I did. The
 company commander look at me real strange, an then look at Sergeant Kranz,
 who had also come up, an Sergeant Kranz say, 
 an he take me behin a tree.
 That night Bubba an me meet up an share a foxhole an eat our C-rations
 for supper. Afterward, I get out my harmonica Bubba had gave me an we
 play a few tunes. It sound real eerie, there in the jungle, playin 

 an 
 Bubba got a little box of candy his mama have sent
 him—pralines an divinity—an we both ate some. An let me tell you this—
 that divinity sure brung back some memories.
 Later on, Sergeant Kranz come over an axe me where is the ten-gallon
 can of drinkin water. I tole him I done lef it out in the jungle when I was tryin
 to carry in Doyle an the machine gun. For a minute I think he gonna make me
go back out there an get it, but he don't. He jus nod, an say that since Doyle is
 hurt an Bones is kilt, now I got to be the machine gunner. I axe him who
 gonna carry the tri-pod an the ammo an all, an he say I got to do that too,
 cause nobody else lef to do it. Then Bubba say he'll do it, if he can get
 transferred to our company. Sergeant Kranz think bout that for a minute, an
 then he say it can probly be arranged, since there is not enough lef of Charlie
 Company to clean a latrine anyway. An so it was, Bubba an me is together
 again.
 The weeks go by so slow I almost think time passin backwards. Up one
 hill, down the other. Sometimes they be gooks on the hills, sometimes not.
 Sergeant Kranz say everthing okay tho, cause actually we be marchin back to
 the United States. He say we gonna march outta Vietnam, thru Laos an then
 up across China an Russia, up to the North Pole an across the ice to Alaska
 where our mamas can come pick us up. Bubba says don't pay no attention to
 him cause he's a idiot.
 Things is very primative in the jungle—no place to shit, sleep on the
 groun like a animal, eat outta cans, no place to take a bath or nothin, clothes
 is all rottin off too. I get a letter once a week from my mama. She say
 everthing fine at home, but that the highschool ain't won no more
 championships since I done lef. I write her back too, when I can, but what I'm
 gonna tell her that won't start her to bawlin again? So I jus say we is havin a
 nice time an everbody treatin us fine. One thing I done tho, was I wrote a
 letter to Jenny Curran in care of my mama an axe if she can get Jenny's folks
 to send it to her—wherever she is. But I ain't heard nothin back.
 Meantime, Bubba an me, we has got us a plan for when we get outta the
 Army. We gonna go back home an get us a srimp boat an get in the srimpin
 bidness. Bubba come from Bayou La Batre, an work on srimp boats all his
 life. He say maybe we can get us a loan an we can take turns bein captain an
 all, an we can live on the boat an will have somethin to do. Bubba's got it all
 figgered out. So many pounds of srimp to pay off the loan on the boat, so
 much to pay for gas, so much for what we eat an such, an all the rest is left
 for us to ass aroun with. I be picherin it in my head, standin at the wheel of
 the srimp boat—or even better, settin there on the back of the boat eatin
srimp! But when I tell Bubba bout that, he say, 
ll eat us outta house an home. We don
 Okay, that make sense—it all right with me.
 It commenced rainin one day an did not stop for two months. We went
 thru ever different kind of rain they is, cep'n maybe sleet or hail. It was little
 tiny stingin rain sometimes, an big ole fat rain at others. It came sidewise an
 straight down an sometimes even seem to come up from the groun.
 Nevertheless, we was expected to do our shit, which was mainly walkin up an
 down the hills an stuff lookin for gooks.
 One day we foun them. They must of been holdin a gook convention or
 somethin, cause it seem like the same sort of deal as when you step on a
 anthill and they all come swarmin aroun. We cannot fly our planes in this
 kind of stuff either, so in about two minutes or so, we is back in trouble
 again.
 This time they has caught us with our pants down. We is crossin this rice
 paddy an all of a sudden from everwhere they start thowin shit at us. People
 is shoutin and screamin an gettin shot an somebody says, 
 Well, I
 pick up my machine gun an start running alongside everbody else for some
 palm trees which at least look like they might keep the rain offen us. We has
 formed a perimeter of sorts an is gettin ready to start preparin for another
 long night when I lookaroun for Bubba an he ain't there.
 Somebody say Bubba was out in the rice paddy an he is hurt, an I say,
 
 an Sergeant Kranz, he hear me, an say, 
t go out
 there." But shit on that—I leave the machine gun behind cause it jus be extra
 weight, an start pumpin hard for where I last seen Bubba. But halfway out I
 nearly step on a feller from 2nd platoon who is mighty hurt, an he look up at
 me with his han out, an so I think, shit, what can I do? so I grap him up an
 run back with him fast as I can. Bullets an stuff be flyin all over. It is
 somethin I simply cannot understand—why in hell is we doin all this,
 anyway? Playin football is one thing. But this, I do not know why. Goddamn.
 I brung that boy back an run out again an damn if I don
Bubba, it gonna be okay, you hear,
 cause we gotta get that srimp boat an all,
Fuck it, Forrest, why this
 happen?
Forrest, you play me a song on the harmonica?
t even know what, an then Bubba
 say, "Forrest, would you please play 
?"
 an I say, "Sure, Bubba." I have to wipe off the mouthpiece, an then I start to
 play an there is still a terrible lot of shootin goin on, an I know I ought to be
 with my machine gun, but what the hell, I played that song.
 I hadn
s face look like death itsef, an for some
 reason, the gooks done quit shootin for a wile, an so had we. I played "Way
 Down Upon the Swanee River" over an over again, kneelin nex to Bubba
 wile the medic give him a shot an tend to him best he could. Bubba done
 grapped a holt to my leg an his eyes got all cloudy an that terrible pink sky
 seem to drain all the color in his face.
 He was tryin to say somethin, an so I bent over real close to hear what it
 was. But I never coud make it out. So I axed the medic, "You hear what he
 say?" An the medic say, "Home. He said, home." Bubba, he died, an that
t even remember it. We was all in awful shape. I don
t give a shit no more. I went to a place back of a tree an jus curl up an
 start cryin. Bubba gone, srimp boat gone; an he the only friend I ever had—
 cept maybe Jenny Curran, an I done mess that up too. Wadn
t matter.
 After a wile, they start landin some relief in heliocopters, and I guess the
 napalm bomb have frightened away the gooks. They must of figgered that if
 we was willing to do that to ourselfs, then what the hell would we of done to
 them?
 They takin the wounded outta there, when along come Sergeant Kranz,
 hair all singed off, clothes burnt up, looking like he jus got shot out of a
 cannon. He say, "Gump, you done real good yesterday, boy," an then he axe
 me if I want a cigarette.
 I say I don
Gump,
you are not the
 smartest feller I have ever had, but you is one hell of a soldier. I wish I had a
 hundrit like you.
t the truth. "Gump," he say,
 "you is goin home, I guess you know that."
 I axe him where is Bubba, an Sergeant Kranz look at me kind of funny.
 "He be along directly," he says. I axed if I can ride on the same heliocopter
 with Bubba, an Sergeant Kranz say, no, Bubba got to go out last, cause he got
 kilt.
 They had stuck me with a big needle full of some kind of shit that made
 me feel better, but I remember, I reached up an grapped Sergeant Kranz by
 the arm, an I say, "I ain

 
 he say. 

7
 I WAS AT THE HOSPITAL AT DANANG FOR MOST OF TWO months.
 So far as a hospital went, it were not much, but we slep on cots with
 mosquito nets, an they was wooden plank floors that was swep clean twice a
 day, which was more than you can say for the kind of livin I'd got used to.
 They was some people hurt far worst than I was in that hospital, let me
 tell you. Po ole boys with arms an legs an feet an hans an who knows what
 else missin. Boys what had been shot in they stomachs an chests an faces. At
 night the place sound like a torture chamber—them fellers be howlin and
 cryin an callin for they mamas.
 They was a guy nex to my cot name of Dan, who had been blowed up
 inside a tank. He was all burnt an had tubes goin in an out of him everplace,
 but I never heard him holler. He talk real low an quiet, an after a day or so,
 him an me got to be friends. Dan come from the state of Connecticut, an he
 were a teacher of history when they grapped him up an thowed him into the
 Army. But cause he was smart, they sent him to officer school an made him a
 lieutenant. Most of the lieutenants I knowed was bout as simple-minded as
 me, but Dan were different. He have his own philosophy bout why we was
 there, which was that we was doin maybe the wrong thing for the right
 reasons, or visa-versa, but whatever it is, we ain't doin it right. Him bein a
 tank officer an all, he say it rediculous for us to be wagin a war in a place
 where we can't hardly use our tanks on account of the land is mostly swamp
 or mountains. I tole him bout Bubba an all, an he nod his head very sadly an
 say they will be a lot more Bubbas to die afore this thing is over.
 After bout a week or so, they move me to another part of the hospital
 where everbody be put so's they can get well, but ever day I gone back to the
 tensive care ward an set for a wile with Dan. Sometimes I played him a tune
 on my harmonica, which he like very much. My mama had sent me a
 package of Hershey bars which finally catch up to me at the hospital an I
 wanted to share them with Dan, cept he can't eat nothin but what goin into
 him thru the tubes.
 I think that settin there talkin to Dan was a thing that had a great
impression on my life. I know that bein a idiot an all, I ain't sposed to have no
 philosophy of my own, but maybe it's just because nobody never took the
 time to talk to me bout it. It were Dan's philosophy that everythin that happen
 to us, or for that matter, to anythin anywhere, is controlled by natural laws
 that govern the universe. His views on the subject was extremely
 complicated, but the gist of what he say begun to change my whole outlook
 on things.
 All my own life, I ain't understood shit about what was goin on. A thing
 jus happen, then somethin else happen, then somethin else, an so on, an haf
 the time nothin makin any sense. But Dan say it is all part of a scheme of
 some sort, an the best way we can get along is figger out how we fits into the
 scheme, an then try to stick to our place. Somehow knowin this, things get a
 good bit clearer for me.
 Anyhow, I's gettin much better in the next weeks, an my ass heal up real
 nice. Doctor say I got a hide like a 
 or somethin. They got a rec
 room at the hospital an since they wadn't much else to do, I wandered over
 there one day an they was a couple of guys playin ping-pong. After a wile, I
 axed if I could play, an they let me. I lost the first couple of points, but after a
 wile, I beat both them fellers. 
 one of
 them say. I jus nod. I tried to play some ever day an got quite good, believe it
 or not.
 In the afternoons I'd go see Dan, but in the mornins I was on my own.
 They let me leave the hospital if I wanted, an they was a bus what took fellers
 like me into the town so's we could walk aroun an buy some of the shit they
 sold in the gook shops in Danang. But I don't need any of that, so I jus walk
 aroun, taking in the sights.
 They is a little market down by the waterfront where folks sells fish an
 srimp an stuff, an one day I went down there an bought me some srimp an
 one of the cooks at the hospital boil em for me an they sure was good. I
 wished ole Dan could of ate some. He say maybe if I squash em up they
 could put em down his tube. He say he gonna axe the nurse about it, but I
 know he jus kiddin.
 That night I be lyin on my cot thinkin of Bubba an how much he might of
 liked them srimp too, an about our srimp boat an all. Po ole Bubba. So the
next day I axed Dan how is it that Bubba can get kilt, an what kind of haf
assed nature law would allow that. He think bout it for a wile, an say, 
ll tell you, Forrest, all of these laws are not specially pleasing to us. But they
 is laws nonetheless. Like when a tiger pounce on a monkey in the jungle—
 bad for the monkey, but good for the tiger. That is jus the way it is."
 Couple of days later I gone on back to the fish market an they is a little
 gook sellin a big bag of srimp there. I axed him where he got them srimp, an
 he start jabberin away at me, count of he don
s I do.
 We must of walked a mile or so, past all the boats on the beach an
 everthin, but he don
n some fellers in the front row start a great big fight
 over somethin an somebody get hissef heaved through the screen an that be
 the end of the movie. So afterwards, I be layin on my cot, thinkin, an
 suddenly it come to me. I know what I gotta do when they let me out of the
 Army! I goin home an find me a little pond near the Gulf an raise me some
 srimp! So maybe I can
s
 what I
d
 catched some baby srimps aroun the marshes in a little han net, an dump
 them in his pond. Then when the tide come in he thowed all sorts of shit in
 there—scraps and stuff, which cause little teensey slimy things to grow an the
 srimps eat them an get big an fat. It was so simple even a imbecile could do
it.
 A few days later some muckity-mucks from Field Force Headquarters
 come over to the hospital all excited an say, "Private Gump, you is been
 awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor for extreme heroism, an is bein
 flown back to the U.S.A. day after tomorrow to be decorated by the President
 of the United States." Now that was early in the mornin an I had jus been lyin
 there, thinkin about going to the bathroom, but here they are, expectin me to
 say somethin, I guess, an I
Thanks,
t there either. I seen a nurse down the hall an I axed her,
 "What happen to Dan," an she say he "gone." An I say, "Gone where?" an she
 say, "I don
t happen on my shif." I foun the head nurse an axe
 her, an she say Dan been flown back to America on account of they can take
 better care of him there. I axed her if he is okay, an she say, "Yeah, if you can
 call two punctured lungs, a severed intestin, spinal separation, a missing foot,
 a truncated leg, an third degree burns over haf the body okay, then he is jus
 fine." I thanked her, an went on my way.
 I didn
Little Sisters of the Po.
Dear Mister Gump:
 You has been chosen to win a bran new Pontiac GTO, if only you will send
 back the enclosed card promising to buy a set of these wonderful
 encyclopedias an a updated yearbook every year for the rest of your life at a
 $75 per year.
t drive.
 But the third letter is personally writ to me an on the back of the envelope
 it say, "J. Curran, General Delivery, Cambridge, Mass." My hans is shakin so
 bad, I can hardly open it.
 "Dear Forrest," it say, "My mama has forwarded your letter to me that
 your mama gave to her, and I am so sorry to hear that you have to fight in
 that terrible immoral war." She say she know how horrible it must be, with all
 the killin an maimin goin on an all. "It must tax your conscience to be
 involved, although I know you are being made to do it against your will." She
 write that it must of been awful not to have no clean clothes an no fresh food,
 an all, but that she do not understand what I mean when I wrote about "havin
 to lie face-down in officer shit for two days."
 "It is hard to believe," she say, "that even they would make you do such a
 vulgar thing as that." I think I could of explained that part a little better.
 Anyhow, Jenny say that "We are organizing large demonstrations against
 the fascist pigs in order to stop the terrible immoral war and let the people be
 heard." She go on bout that for a page or so, an it all soundin sort of the same.
 But I read it very carefully anyway, for jus to see her hanwritin is enough to
 make my stomach turn flip-flops.
 "At least," she say at the end, "you have met up with Bubba, and I know
 you are glad to have a friend in your misery." She say to give Bubba her best,
 an add in a p.s. that she is earnin a little money by playin in a little musical
 band a couple of nights a week at a coffeehouse near the Harvard University,
 an if ever I get up that way to look her up. The group, she say, is called The
 Cracked Eggs. From then on, I be lookin for some excuse to get to Harvard
 University.
 That night I am packin up my shit to go back home to get my Medal of
Honor an meet the President of the United States. However, I do not have
 nothin to pack cept my pajaymas an the toothbrush an razor they have gave
 me at the hospital, cause everthin else I own is back at the firebase at Pleiku.
 But there is this nice lieutenant colonel that has been sent over from Field
 Force, an he say, "Forgit all that shit, Gump—we is gonna have a bran new
 tailor-made uniform sewn up for you this very night by two dozen gooks in
 Saigon, on account of you cannot meet the President wearin your pajaymas."
 The colonel say he is gonna accompany me all the way to Washington, an see
 to it that I have got a place to stay an food to eat an a ride to wherever we is
 going an also will tell me how to behave an all.
 Colonel Gooch is his name.
 That night I get into one last ping-pong match with a feller from the
 headquarters company of Field Force, who is sposed to be the best ping-pong
 player in the Army or somesuch as that. He is a little wiry feller who refuse to
 look me in the eye, an also, he bring his own paddle in a leather case. When I
 be whippin his ass he stop an say the ping-pong balls ain
m sure you will be in time. The crucial question is, what
 will you do? I don
re an idiot at all. Perhaps by the
 measure of tests or the judgment of fools, you might fall into
 some category or other, but deep down, Forrest, I have seen that
 glowing sparkle of curiosity burning deep in your mind. Take the
 tide, my friend, and as you are carried along, make it work for
 you, fight the shallows and the snags and never give in, never
 give up. You are a good fellow, Forrest, and you have a big heart.
 Your Pal,
 DAN
 I read over Dan
s letter an axed him to tell me what exactly it
 means, an Colonel Gooch look it over an han it back an say, "Well, Gump, it
 is pretty plain to me he means that you had better the hell not fuck up when
 the President pins the medal on you."
8
 WE BE FLYIN HIGH OVER THE PACIFIC OCEAN, AN COLONEL
 Gooch is tellin me what a great hero I am going to be when we get back to
 the United States. He say people will turn out for parades an shit an I will not
 be able to buy mysef a drink or a meal on account of everbody else will be
 wantin to do it for me. He also say that the Army is gonna want me to go on a
 tour to drum up new enlistments an sell bonds an crap like that, an that I will
 be given the "royal treatment." In this, he is correct.
 When we land at the airport at San Francisco, a big crowd is waiting for
 us to get off the plane. They is carryin signs an banners and all. Colonel
 Gooch look out the winder of the plane an say he is suprised not to see a
 brass band there to greet us. As it turn out, the people in the crowd is quite
 enough.
 First thing that happen when we come off the plane is the people in the
 crowd commence to chantin at us, an then somebody thowed a big tomato
 that hit Colonel Gooch in the face. After that, all hell break loose. They is
 some cops there, but the crowd busted thru an come runnin towards us
 shoutin an hollerin all kinds of nasty things, an they is about two thousan of
 them, wearing beards an shit, an it was the mos frightenin thing I have seen
 since we was back at the rice paddy where Bubba was kilt.
 Colonel Gooch is tryin to clean the tomato off his face an act dignified,
 but I figger, the hell with that, cause we is outnumbered a thousan to one, an
 ain
s an cops, an he is lookin very distressed till
 he seen me. "C
 he say. 

 When we get on the plane to Washington they is a bunch of civilians on it
 too, an Colonel Gooch an me set in a seat up front. We has not even took off
 yet, before all the people aroun us get up an go set somewhere else in the
 back of the plane. I axed Colonel Gooch why that was, an he say it probly
 cause we smell funny or somethin. He say not to worry about it. He say
 things be better in Washington. I hope so, cause even a moron like me can
 figger out that so far, it is not like the colonel say it would be.
 When the plane get to Washington I am so excited I can bust! We can see
 the Washington Monument an the Capitol an all from out the winder an I
 have only saw picures of them things, but there they are, real as rain. The
 Army have sent a car to pick us up an we is taken to a real nice hotel, with
 elevators an stuff an people to lug your shit aroun for you. I have never been
 in a elevator before.
 After we get squared away in our rooms, Colonel Gooch come over an
 say we is goin out for a drink to this little bar he remembers where they is a
 lot of pretty girls, an he say it is a lot different here than in California on
 account of people in the East are civilized an shit. He is wrong again.
 We set down at a table an Colonel Gooch order me a beer an somethin
 for hissef an he begin tellin me how I got to act at the ceremony tomorrow
 when the President pin the medal on me.
 Bout halfway through his talk, a pretty girl come up to the table an
 Colonel Gooch look up an axe her to git us two more drinks cause I guess he
 think she is the waitress. But she look down an say, 
 Then she turn to me an say, 

 Well, we gone on back to the hotel after that, an ordered some beer from
 room service, an Colonel Gooch get to finish tellin me how to act tomorrow.
 Nex morning we up bright an early an walk on over to the White House
where the President live. It is a real pretty house with a big lawn an all that
 look almost as big as city hall back in Mobile. A lot of Army people be there
 pumpin my han an tellin me what a fine feller I am, an then it is time to get
 the medal.
 The President is a great big ole guy who talk like he is from Texas or
 somethin an they has assembled a whole bunch of people some of which look
 like maids an cleanin men an such, but they is all out in this nice rose garden
 in the bright sunshine.
 An Army guy commence to readin some kind of bullshit an everbody be
 listenin up keen, cept for me, on account of I is starvin since we has not had
 our breakfast yet. Finally the Army guy is thru an then the President come up
 to me an take the medal out of a box an pin it on my chest. Then he shake my
 han an all these people start takin pichers an clappin an such as that.
 I figger it is over then, an we can get the hell out of there, but the
 President, he still standin there, lookin at me kind of funny. Finally he say,
 

 I glance over at Colonel Gooch but he jus roll his eyes up, an so I nod, an
 say, 
 an the President say, 
mon boy, lets go an git us
 somethin to eat!"
 I foller him inside an we go into a little roun room an the President tell a
 guy who is dressed up like a waiter to bring me some breakfast. It jus the two
 of us in there, an wile we is waitin for the breakfast he start axin me
 questions, such as do I know why we is fightin the gooks an all, an is they
 treatin us right in the Army. I jus nod my head an after a wile he stop axin me
 questions an they is this kind of silence an then he say, "Do you want to
 watch some television wile we is waitin for your food?"
 I nod my head again, an the President turn on a tv set behin his desk an
 we watch "The Beverly Hillbillies." The President is most amused an say he
 watches it ever day an that I sort of remin him of Jethro. After breakfast, the
 President axe me if I want him to show me aroun the house, an I say, "Yeah,"
 an off we go. When we get outside, all them photographer fellers are followin
 us aroun an then the President decide to set down on a little bench an he say
 to me, "Boy, you was wounded, wasn
 an I nod, an then he say, 
 an he pull up his shirt an show me a big ole scar on his stomach
 where he has had an operation of some kind, an he axe, 
 an so I pull down my pants an show him. Well, all them
 photographer fellers rush up an start to take pichers, an several folks come
 runnin over an I am hustled away to where Colonel Gooch is waitin.
 That afternoon back at our hotel, Colonel Gooch suddenly come bustin
 into my room with a hanful of newspapers an boy is he mad. He begun
 hollerin an cussin at me an flung the papers down on my bed an there I am,
 on the front page, showin my big ass an the President is showin his scar. One
 of the papers has drawn a little black mask over my eyes so they can't
 recognize me, like they do with dirty pitchers.
 The caption say, 

 
 Colonel Gooch say. 

 
 I says, 

 Anyhow, after that I be in the doghouse again, but they has not give up
 on me yet. The Army have decided that I will go on the recruitment tour to
 try to get fellers to sign up for the war, an Colonel Gooch has gotten
 somebody to write up a speech that they expect me to make. It is a long
 speech, an filled with such things as 
 an a
 whole bunch of shit like that. Trouble was, I could not never get the speech
 learnt. Oh, I could see all the words in my head okay, but when it come time
 to say it, everthin get all muddled up.
 Colonel Gooch is beside hissef. He make me stay up till almost midnight
 ever day, tryin to get the speech right, but finally he thowed up his hans an
 say, 

 Then he come up with a idea. 
 he say, 
s what we is gonna
 do. I am gonna cut this speech shorter, an so all you will have to do is say a
 few things. Let us try that." Well, he cut it shorter an shorter an shorter, till he
is finally satisfied that I can remember the speech an not look like a idiot. In
 the end, all I have got to say is "Join the Army an fight for your freedom."
 Our first stop on the tour is a little college an they have got some
 reporters an photographers there, an we is in a big auditorium up on the stage.
 Colonel Gooch get up an he begin givin the speech I done sposed to have
 made. When he is thru, he say, "An now, we will have a few remarks from
 the latest Congressional Medal of Honor winner, P.F.C. Forrest Gump," an he
 motion for me to come forward. Some people are clappin, an when they stop,
 I lean forward an say, "Join the Army an fight for your freedom."
 I reckon they be expectin somethin more, but that
What do you think of the war?
It is a bunch of
 shit.
t sayin nothin to
 me, but he is talkin to hissef an laughin this weird, nutty little laugh.
 Next mornin we is in a hotel ready to give our second speech on the tour
 when the phone ring. It is for Colonel Gooch. Whoever on the other end of
 the line seem to be doin all the talkin, an the colonel is doin the listenin an
 sayin "Yessir" a whole lot, an ever so often he is glarin over at me. When he
 finally put the phone down, he be starin at his shoes an he say, "Well, Gump,
 now you has done it. The tour is canceled, I have been reassigned to a
 weather station in Iceland, an I do not know or care what is to become of
 your sorry ass." I axed Colonel Gooch if we could get ourselfs a Co
t seem to give much of a damn bout nothin, an he say when I get there I
 has just got two more years left in the Army before I am discharged, an to
 keep my nose clean an everthin will be okay. An that is what I am tryin to do.
 I be thinkin a lot about my mama an bout Bubba an the little srimp bidness an
 Jenny Curran up at Harvard, an I am playin a little ping-pong on the side.
 One day next spring there is a notice that they is gonna have a post ping
pong tournament an the winner will get to go to Washington to play for the
 All Army championship. I signed mysef up an it was pretty easy to win on
 account of the only other guy that was any good had got his fingers blowed
 off in the war an kep droppin his paddle.
 Next week I am sent to Washington an the tournament is bein helt at
 Walter Reed Hospital, where all the wounded fellers can set an watch us play.
 I won pretty easy the first roun, an the secont too, but in the third, I have
 drawn a little bitty feller who puts all sorts of spin on the ball an I am havin a
 terrible time with him, an gettin my ass whipped. He is leadin me four games
 to two an it look like I am gonna lose, when all of a sudden I look over in the
 crowd an who should be settin there in a wheelchair but Lieutenant Dan from
 the hospital back at Danang!
 We have a little break between games an I go over to Dan an look down
 at him an he ain
They had to take them off, Forrest,
but other than that, I am jus
 fine.
They say they gonna leave that like it is,
They think it looks
 good on me.
Forrest, I
 believe that you can do any damn thing you want to. I have been watchin you
 play, an you can beat this little guy because you play a hell of a game of
 ping-pong an it is your destiny to be the best.
s theory of relativity, an what it mean in terms of the universe. Well,
 I got me a piece of paper an I drawed it out for him, the whole formula, cause
 it was somethin we had to do in the Intermediate Light class back at the
 University. He look at what I have done, an he say, "Forrest, you never cease
 to amaze me."
 One day when I was back at Fort Dix shovelin coal in the Steam Heat
 Company, a feller from the Pentagon showed up with a chest full of medals
 an a big smile on his face, an he say, "P.F.C. Gump, it is my pleasure to
 inform you that you is been chosen as a member of the United States Ping
Pong Team to go to Red China an play the Chinese in ping-pong. This is a
 special honor, because for the first time in nearly twenty-five years our
 country is having anything to do with the Chinamen, an it is an event far
 more important than any damn ping-pong game. It is diplomacy, and the
 future of the human race might be at stake. Do you understand what I am
 saying?"
 I shrug my shoulders an nod my head, but somethin down in me sinkin
 fast. I am jus a po ole idiot, an now I have got the whole human race to look
 after.
9
 HERE I AM, HALFWAY ROUN THE WORLD AGAIN, THIS TIME in
 Peking, China.
 The other people that play on the ping-pong team are real nice fellers
 what come from ever walk of life, an they is specially nice to me. The
 Chinamen is nice, too, an they is very different sorts of gooks from what I
 seen in Vietnam. First off, they is neat an clean an very polite. Second, they is
 not tryin to murder me.
 The American State Department have sent a feller with us who is there to
 tell us how to behave aroun the Chinamen, an of all I have met, he is the only
 one not so nice. In fact, he is a turd. Mister Wilkins is his name, an he have a
 little thin moustache and always carry a briefcase an worry about whether or
 not his shoes is shined an his pants is pressed or his shirt is clean. I bet in the
 mornin he get up an spit-shines his asshole.
 Mister Wilkins is always on my case. "Gump," he say, "when a
 Chinaman bow to you, you gotta bow back. Gump, you gotta quit adjustin
 yoursef in public. Gump, what are them stains on your trousers? Gump, you
 have got the table manners of a hog."
 In that last, maybe he is right. Them Chinamen eat with two little sticks
 an it is almost impossible to shovel any food in your mouth with em, an so a
 lot of it wind up on my clothes. No wonder you do not see a lot of fat
 Chinamen aroun. You would think they would of learnt to use a fork by now.
 Anyway, we is playin a whole lot of matches against the Chinamen an
 they has got some very good players. But we is holdin our own. At night they
 has almost always got somethin for us to do, such as go out for supper
 someplace, or listen to a concert. One night, we is all sposed to go out to a
 restaurant called the Peking Duck, an when I get down to the lobby of the
 hotel, Mister Wilkins say, "Gump, you has got to go back to your room an
 change that shirt. It look like you has been in a food fight or somethin." He
 take me over to the hotel desk an get a Chinaman who speak English to write
 a little note for me, saying in Chinese that I am goin to the Peking Duck
 restaurant, an tell me to give it to the cab driver.
"We are going ahead," Mister Wilkins say. "You give the driver the note
 an he will take you there." So I gone on back to my room an put on a new
 shirt.
 Anyhow, I find a cab in front of the hotel an get in, an he drive away. I be
 searchin for the note to give him, but by the time I figger out I must of lef it
 in my dirty shirt, we is long gone in the middle of town. The driver keep
 jabberin back at me, I reckon he
Peking Duck, Peking Duck,
Peking
 Duck,
 wings. All of a sudden, the
 driver get a big ole smile, an he start noddin an drive off. Ever once in a wile
 he look back at me, an I start flappin my wings again. Bout a hour later, he
 stop an I look out the winder an damn if he ain
t had no dinner or nothin, an
 I
Do you realize, Gump, that they think
 you are a spy?
Do you know what this can do to this whole effort?
 Are you crazy?
No, I is jus a idiot,
at all times.
Chinese Fire
 Drill
t even bother to take
 me along, an so
You big dumb goof,
do you not
 realize that the best thing that could of happened for the United States was to
 let that sumbitch drown! You, Gump, is lost us the opportunity of a lifetime.
Gump,
your stupidity seems to have turned into an
 advantage. I have received a report that the Chinese envoy would like to start
 discussions bout the possibility of reopening foreign relations with us.
 Furthermore, the Chinese wish to thow you a big parade thru downtown
 Peking, an so I expect you to be on your good behavior.
I have heard you was in
 Vietnam. May I ask what you think of the war?
t want to know, he wouldn
I think it's a
 bunch of shit.
t never tole nobody
 till now what I said to make him smile that way.
 The day we lef, we is goin out of the hotel an they is a big crowd watchin
 us leave an cheerin an clappin. I look over an they is this Chinese mama with
 a little boy on her shoulders, an I can see he is a real Mongolian idiot—eyes
 all crossed, tongue hangin out, droolin an babbling like them kinds of idiots
 do. Well, I can
s eyes, an she start chatterin,
 an our interpreter say to me that is the first time the little feller have ever
 smiled. They is things I could tell her, I guess, but we ain
Young Chinese Displays His Hatred of American Capitalists,
Well, Gump, I spose you know about the Chinese custom
 that if you save a Chinaman's life, you is responsible for it forever.
 eyes bugged out an he say, "Argggg!" an start fannin the air
 an tryin to unloosen his seatbelt.
A pretty stewardess come runnin up to see what all the commotion is
 about an Mister Wilkins is coughin an choakin an all of a sudden I done
 started fannin the air mysef an holdin my nose an pointin at Mister Wilkins,
 an shoutin, "Somebody open a winder," an shit like that. Mister Wilkins, he
 get all red in the face an begin protestin an pointin back at me, but the
 stewardess, she jus smiled an gone on back to her seat. After he quit sputterin
 an all, Mister Wilkins start adjustin his collar an say to me under his breath,
 "Gump, that was a extremely crude thing to do." But I jus grinned an looked
 straight ahead.
 They sent me back to Fort Dix after that, but instead of puttin me in the
 Steam Heat Company, I am tole they is lettin me out of the Army early. It
 don
s in the po
 house an all. I think maybe I ought to get started with the little srimp bidness,
 too, an begin to make somethin of my life, but all this time, in the back of my
 mind, I have been thinkin of Jenny Curran up at Harvard University. I got a
 bus to the train station, an all the way there I am tryin to figger what is the
 right thing to do. But when the time come to buy my ticket, I tole them I
 wanted to go to Boston. There are jus times when you can
clock. I axed if I can wait, an the guy say, "Sure," so I set
 down for five or six hours an took a load off my feet. Directly, the place
 begun to fill up. They was mostly college-lookin kids but was dressed like
 geeks at a sideshow. Everbody wearin dirty blue jeans an tee shirts an all the
 guys had beards an wore glasses an all the girls have hair that look like a bird
 gonna fly out of it any secont. Presently the band come out on stage an start
 settin up. They is three or four fellers an they has got all this huge electric
 stuff, pluggin it in everwhere. It certainly is a far cry from what we done in
 the Student Union building back at the University. Also, I do not see Jenny
 Curran noplace.
 After they get the electric stuff set up, they start to play, an let me say
 this: them people was loud! All sorts of colored lights begin to flash an the
 music they is makin sound sort of like a jet airplane when it takin off. But the
 crowd lovin it an when they is done, everbody begin to cheer an yell. Then a
 light fall on a side of the stage an there she is—Jenny hersef!
 She is changed from the way I known her. First, she is got hair down to
 her ass, an is wearin sunglasses inside, at night! She is dressed in blue jeans
 an a shirt with so many spangles on it she look like a telephone switchboard.
 The band start up again an Jenny begun to sing. She has grapped hole of the
 microphone an is dancin all aroun the stage, jumpin up an down an wavin her
 arms an tossin her hair aroun. I am tryin to understan the words to the song,
 but the band is playin too loud for that, beatin on the drums, bangin on the
 piano, swattin them electric guitars till it seem like the roof gonna cave in. I
 am thinkin, what the hell is this?
After a wile they take a break an so I got up an tried to get through a door
 that go backstage. But they is a feller standing there who say I cannot come
 in. When I go walkin back to my seat, I notice everbody is starin at my Army
 uniform. "That is some costume you has got on there," somebody says, an
 somebody else say, "Far out!" an another one say, "Is he for real?"
 I am beginnin to feel like a idiot again, an so I gone on outside, thinkin
 maybe I can walk aroun an figger things out. I guess I must of walked for haf
 an hour or so, an when I get back to the place they is a long line of people
 waitin to get in. I go up to the front an try to splain to the guy that all my stuff
 is in there, but he say to go wait at the end of the line. I guess I stood there a
 hour or so, an listened to the music comin from inside, an I have to tell you, it
 sounded a little better when you got away from it like that.
 Anyway, after a wile, I got bored an went down a alley an roun to the
 back of the club. They was some little steps an I sat down there an watched
 the rats chasin each other in the garbage. I had my harmonica in my pocket,
 so
s band, an after a wile I foun mysef bein able to play along
 with them, sort of usin the chromatic stop to get half out of key so it would fit
 in with what they was playin. I don
t take
 much afore I was able to make runs of my own, way up in C major, an to my
 suprise, it didn
t
 have to listen to it too.
 All of a sudden the door behin me bust open an there is Jenny standin
 there. I guess they had taken their break again, but I wadn
Who is that out there?
It's me,
Who is playin that harmonica?
It's me. Forrest.
It is who?
Forrest.
Forrest? Forrest Gump!
s room one night. That was a thowin-out
 offense in them days. The banjo player had run off to Canada rather than go
 in the Army, an the little band had broke up. Jenny had gone out to California
 for a wile, an weared flowers in her hair, but she say them people is a bunch
 of freaks who is stoned all the time, an so she met this guy an come with him
 to Boston, an they had done some peace marches an all, but he turned out to
 be a fairy, so she split up with him, an took up with a real serious peace
 marcher who was in to makin bombs an stuff, an blowin up buildins. That
 didn
t have noplace else to go, so that
s name. He is a little guy bout a hundrit pounds
 or so, an has hair like a dustmop an wears a lot of beads aroun his neck an is
 settin on the floor when we get to their apartment, meditatin like a guru.
 "Rudolph," Jenny say, "this is Forrest. He is a friend of mine from home,
 an he is gonna be stayin with us a wile."
 Rudolph don
t got but one bed, but she made up a little pallet for me on the
 floor an that is where I slept. It wadn
degenerate turd.
Role of the
 Idiot in World Literature.
Well,
 Forrest, why don't you sit in on the class? You might enjoy it.
t say nothin. We
 gone on back to the apartment an Rudolph is still squattin on the floor by
 hissef. We was in the kitchen an I axed her real quiet if Rudolph could talk,
 an she say, yes, sooner or later.
 That afternoon Jenny took me to meet the other guys in the band an she
 tell them I play the harmonica like heaven itsef, an why don
Dixie,
t believe he has heard what I say, an
 Jenny jump in an say, "It don
s got a ear for
 our stuff."
 So that night I be playin with the band an everbody agree I am makin a
 good contribution an it is very enjoyable, gettin to set there an watch Jenny
 sing an thow hersef all over the stage.
 That nex Monday I have decided to go ahead an set in on Doctor
Quackenbush
Role of the Idiot in World Literature.
Today,
we has a visitor who is
 gonna be auditing this course from time to time. Please welcome Mister
 Forrest Gump.
The idiot,
has played an important role in
 history an literature for many years. I suppose you has all heard of the village
 idiot, who was usually some retarded individual livin in a village someplace.
 He was often the object of scorn an mockery. Later, it become the custom of
 nobility to have in their presence a court jester, a sort of person that would do
 things to amuse the royalty. In many instances, this individual was actually
 an idiot or a moron, in others, he was merely a clown or jokester....
The object of having a fool for most writers,
is to employ the device of double entendre, permittin them to let the fool
 make a fool of hissef, an at the same time allow the reader the revelation of
 the greater meaning of the foolishness. Occasionally, a great writer like
 Shakespeare would let the fool make an ass out of one of his principal
 characters, thereby providing a twist for the readers' enlightenment.
Bedlam, an for
 this girl called Lucille to play The Fool. Another guy called Horace
 somebody was to be crazy ole King Lear. An then he say, "Forrest, why
 doesn

 Mister Quackenbush say he will get a few stage props from the drama
 department, but he want us to get up our own costumes, just so the thing
would be more 
 How I got into this deal, I do not know, is what I
 am thinkin.
 Meantime, things is happenin with our band, The Cracked Eggs. A feller
 from New Yawk have flown up an listened to us an says he wants to get us in
 a recordin studio an make a tape of our music. All the fellers is excited,
 includin Jenny Curran, an me, of course. The feller from New Yawk, Mister
 Feeblestein is his name. He say if everthing go well, we could be the hottest
 thing since the invention of night baseball. Mister Feeblestein say all we got
 to do is sign a piece of paper an then start gettin rich.
 George, the guy who plays keyboard for us, has been teachin me a little
 bit of how to play it, an Mose, the drummer, is also lettin me beat on his
 drums some. It is kind of fun, learnin how to play all them things, an my
 harmonica too. Ever day I practice some, an ever night the band play at the
 Hodaddy Club.
 Then one afternoon I come home from class an there is Jenny settin by
 hersef on the couch. I axed her where is Rudolph, an she say he has 
 I
 axed what for, an she say, 
 an
 so I says, 
t we go out an get ourselfs some supper an talk bout it?"
 Naturally, she does most of the talkin, an it is really jus a string of gripes
 bout men. She say we are "lazy, unresponsible, selfish, low-down lyin shits."
 She is goin on that way for a wile an then she start to cry. I says, "Awe,
 Jenny, don
t nothin. That ole Rudolph didn
 An she say,
 
d like to go home now." An so we do.
 When we get home, Jenny begun takin off her clothes. She is down to her
 underpants, an I am jus settin on the couch tryin not to notice, but she come
 up an stand in front of me an she say, "Forrest, I want you to fuck me now."
 You coulda knocked me over with a feather! I jus set there an gawked up
 at her. Then she set down nex to me an started foolin with my britches, an
 nex thing I knowed, she
t matter what I
Whooo—lookit what
 you got there!
t.
 Well, we done all sorts of things that afternoon that I never even dreamt
 of in my wildest imagination. Jenny shown me shit I never could of figgered
 out on my own—sidewise, crosswise, upside down, bottom-wise, lengthwise,
 dogwise, standin up, settin down, bendin over, leanin back, inside-out an
 outside-in—only way we didn
t axe me how. When we is finally finished, Jenny
 jus lie there a wile, an then she look at me an say, "Goddamn, Forrest, where
 is you been all my life?"
 "I been aroun," I says.
 Naturally, things are a bit different between Jenny an me after that. We
 commenced to sleep in the same bed together, which was also kind of strange
 for me at first, but I sure got used to it. When we was doin our act at the
 Hodaddy Club, ever so often Jenny would pass by me an muss up my hair, or
 run her fingers down the back of my neck. All of a sudden things start to
 change for me—like my whole life jus begun, an I am the happiest feller in
 the world.
11
 THE DAY ARRIVED WHEN WE IS TO GIVE OUR LITTLE PLAY IN
 Professor Quackenbush
hovel.
Bedlam who is actually
 a character name of Edgar disguised up as a crazy person on account of being
 fucked over by his brother, who is a bastid. Also, the king is gone totally nuts
 by this time, an Edgar is playin a nut too, an the fool, of course, is actin like
 one. My part is to be the Earl of Gloucester, who is Edgar
s costume someplace, with a little cap that has bells tied to it,
 an them kinds of shoes that curl up in front like Arabs wear. The guy playin
 Tom o
Do poor Tom some charity, whom the foul fiend vexes,
What? Have his daughters brought him to this pass?
 Couldst thou save nothing? Didst thou give them all?
Nay, he reserved a blanket, else we had all been
shamed.
This cold night will turn us
 all to fools and madmen.
Look! Here come a walking fire!
This is the foul fiend Flibbertigibbet,
Bedlam say.
 "What
 the king axes.
 An I say, 

 Mad Tom say he is jus 
 an a bunch of other shit, an then I sposed to
 suddenly recognize the king, an say:
 

 An Mad Tom, he answer, 
s call

 The wind machine be blowin hard now, an I reckon Professor
 Quackenbush have not considered that I am six feet six inches tall when he
 built the hovel, cause the top of my torch is bumpin against the ceiling.
 Mad Tom, he is now sposed to say, 
s a-cold," but instead, he
 say, "Watch that torch!"
 I look down at my book to see where that line come from, an Elmer
 Harrington III say to me, "Look out for that torch, you idiot!" an I say back to
 him, "For once in my life I am not the idiot—you is!" An then all of a sudden
 the roof to the hovel catch on fire an fall on Mad Tom
Turn off the goddamn wind machine!
s head to put the fire out. People is jumpin aroun an choakin
 an coughin an cussin an the girl playin the fool gets hysterical an commence
 to shriek an cry, "We will all be kilt!" For a moment or two, it actually looks
 that way.
 I turn behin me, an damn if my cape ain
Gump, you fuckin idiot—you stupid asshole! You will pay for this!
t
 stop till I got home, an when I get into the apartment, Jenny say, "Oh, Forrest,
 how was it? I bet you was wonderful!" Then she get a peculiar look on her
 face. "Say, do you smell somethin burnin?" she axes.
 "It is a long story," I say.
 Anyhow, after that I did not attend the "Role of the Idiot in World
 Literature" no more, as I have seen quite enough. But ever night I an Jenny
 are playin with The Cracked Eggs an all day long we is makin love an takin
 walks an havin picnics on the banks of the Charles River an it is heaven.
 Jenny has written a nice tender song called "Do It to Me Hard an Fast," in
 which I get to take bout a five-minute ride on my harmonica. It were a
 splendid spring an summer, an we went down to New Yawk an made the
 tapes for Mister Feeblestein an a few weeks later he call up to say we is
 gonna have a record album. Not too long after that, everbody be callin us up
 to play in their towns an we took the money we got from Mister Feeblestein
 an bought us a big bus with beds an shit in it an go on the road.
Now there is somethin else durin that period that played a great role in
 my life. One night after we is finished the first set at the Hodaddy Club,
 Mose, the drummer for The Cracked Eggs, take me aside an say, "Forrest,
 you is a nice clean-cut feller an all, but they is somethin I want you to try that
 I think will make you play that harmonica better."
 I axe what it is, an Mose say, "Here," an he give me a little cigarette. I tell
 him I don
It is not a regular cigarette,
 Forrest. It have got somethin in it to expand your horizons.
t sure I need my horizons expanded, but he sort of
 insisted. "At least try it," he say, an I thought for a minute, an conclude that
 one cigarette ain
Forrest,
 you think that's good—use it when you're screwin.
t say nothin for a wile,
 cause she been known to take a puff or two hersef, but then one day she say
 to me, "Forrest, don

 
 I says, 

 An Jenny say, 

 But I didn't want to stop. Somehow, it got rid of everthing I might be
 worried bout, tho there wadn't too much of that at that time anyway. At night
 I'd go out between sets at the Hodaddy Club an set in the little alley an look
 up at the stars. If they weren't any stars, I'd look up anyway, an one night
 Jenny come out an find me lookin up at the rain.
 
 she say. 
t doin nothin cept playin an lyin aroun all day. It ain
t got no concerts booked after
 tomorrow down in Provincetown, so I think maybe we ought to go someplace
 an take a vacation. Go up to the mountains maybe."
 I jus nod my head. I ain
Hey, ain't you the
 harmonica player with The Cracked Eggs?
Forrest, it is time
 to...
Awe shit,
Keep away from me, you shithead!
 You men is all alike, jus like dogs or somethin—you got no respect for
 anybody!
t never felt so bad. I don
t
 speak to me none at all. That night she slep on the sofa an the nex mornin she
 say maybe it is time for me to find my own place. An so I packed up my shit
 an left. My head hangin very low. Couldn
t playin none for the moment, there
 ain
s time I go on back home an
 see my mama an maybe start up that little srimp bidness down where po ole
 Bubba used to live. Perhaps I is not cut out to be a rock an roll star. Perhaps, I
 think, I ain
Well, see if you can bring her
 back.
t nobody home. I waited on the steps for most of the day, then, bout nine
 o
t
 know what to do, or who I was, but then one of them say, "Look, I wouldn
 I axed why, an the feller take
 me aside an tell me this:
 Jenny has done jus got out of jail. She have been arrested the day before,
 an spent the night in the women's jail, an this mornin, fore anybody could get
 her out, the people at the jail done said she might have lice or somethin in her
 hair cause it so long an all, an they had all her hair shaved off. Jenny is bald.
 Well, I reckon she don't want me to see her this way, cause she has done
 got into the back seat of the car an is lyin down. So I crawled up on my hans
 an knees so I couldn't see in the winder, an I say, 
s me, Forrest."
 She don
s
happened. I tell her I ain
m sorry bout her
 hair. Then I crawled back to the steps where my shit is, an looked in my
 duffelbag an find a ole watch cap from the Army an crawled back to the car
 an stuck it on a stick an polked it thru the winder. She took it, an put it on, an
 come out of the car, an say, "Awe get up off the groun you big Bozo, an
 come into the house."
 We set an talked for a wile, an them other people been smokin dope an
 drinkin beer, but I ain
Do you know Forrest here done won the
 Congressional Medal of Honor?
Jesus Christ have
 just sent us a present!
Forrest, I want you to go with us today, an I want you to
 wear your Army uniform.
Because you is gonna
 do somethin to stop all the sufferin over in Vietnam.
Forrest, wrap these aroun you.
Just do it, you will find out later. You
 want to make me happy, doesn't you?
assault with a dangerous
 weapon—a medal—an resistin arrest,
Mister Gump,
do you realize that you have conked the
 Clerk of the U.S. Senate on the head with your medal?
t sayin nothin, but it look like I am in serious trouble this time.
 "Mister Gump," the judge say, "I do not know what a man of your
 stature, a man what has served his country so well, is doin mixed up with a
 bunch of tuity-fruities that is thowin away their medals, but I will tell you
 what, I is gonna order you committed for psychiatric observation for thirty
 days to see if they can figger out why you has done such a idiotic thing."
 They took me back to my cell after that, an a wile later load me on a bus
 an truck me off to St. Elizabeth
Put Away.
ink blot
Take off your clothes.
My, my—you is a fine specimen of a man!
t never said for me to "bend over," an for this I am grateful. Afterward,
 she say I can get dressed an go back to my room. On the way there, I past by
 a room with a glass door an inside it they is a bunch of little guys, settin an
 lyin aroun, droolin an spasmoin an beatin on the floor with they fists. I jus
 stood there for a wile, lookin in, an I
s office
 again. When I get there, she is with two other guys dressed up as doctors, an
 she say they is Doctor Duke and Doctor Earl—both with the National
 Institute of Mental Health. An they is very interested in my case, she say.
 Doctor Duke an Doctor Earl set me down an start axin me questions—all
 kinds of questions—an both of them took turns bongin me on the knees with
 the hammer. Then Doctor Duke say, "Look here, Forrest, we has got your test
 scores, an it is remarkable how well you is done on the math part. So we
 would like to give you some other tests." They produce the tests, an make me
 take them, an they is a lot more complicated than the first one, but I figger I
 done okay. Had I knowed what was gonna happen nex, I would of fucked
 them up.
 "Forrest," Doctor Earl say, "this is phenomenal. You is got a brain jus
 like a computer. I do not know how well you can reason with it—which is
 probly why you is in here in the first place—but I have never seen anything
 quite like this before."
 "You know, George," Doctor Duke say, "this man is truly remarkable. I
 have done some work for NASA a wile back, an I think we ought to send him
 down to Houston to the Aeronautics and Space Center an have them check
 him out. They has been lookin for just this sort of feller."
 All the doctors be starin at me, an noddin they heads, an then they bonged
 me on the knees with a hammer one more time an it look like here I go again.
 They flown me down to Houston, Texas, in a big ole plane with nobody
 on it but me an Doctor Duke, but it is a pleasant sort of trip cept they got me
 chained to my seat han an foot.
 "Look here, Forrest," Doctor Duke say, "the deal is this. Right now you is
 in a shitpot of trouble for thowin that medal at the Clerk of the U.S. Senate.
 You can go to jail for ten years for that. But if you cooperates with these
 people at NASA, I will personally see to it that you is released—okay?"
 I nod my head. I knowed I got to get outta jail an find Jenny again. I am
 missin her somethin terrible.
I am at the NASA place at Houston for about a month. They has
 examined me an tested me an questioned me so much I feel like I am goin on
 the Johnny Carson show.
 I ain
Gump,
we wants to use you on a flight to outer space. As
 Doctor Duke has pointed out, your mind is jus like a computer—only better.
 If we can program it with the right stuff, you will be extremely useful to
 America's space program. What do you say?
t find nothin there worth a shit, so what they is plannin
 nex is a visit to Mars. Fortunately for me, Mars is not what they got in mind
 at the moment—instead, this is to be a sort of trainin mission in which they
 gonna try to figger out what kind of folks would be suited best for the Mars
 trip.
 Besides me, they has picked a woman an a ape to go along.
 The woman is a crabby-lookin lady called Major Janet Fritch, who is
 sposed to be America
t seem to have
 much use for either me or the ape.
 The ape ain
t it?
 Anyhow, we got to go thru all kinds of trainin before the flight. They
 puttin us in cyclotrons an spinnin us aroun, an in little rooms with no gravity
 an such as that. An all day long they be crammin my mind with shit they
 want me to remember, such as equations to figger the distance between
 wherever we is, an wherever they want us to go, an how to get back again; all
 kinds of crap like coaxiel coordinates, co sine computations, spheriod
 trigonometry, Boolean algebra, antilogarithms, Fourier analysis, quadrats an
 matrix math. They say I is to be the "backup" for the backup computer.
 I have writ a bunch of letters to Jenny Curran but all of them done come
 back "Addressee not Known." Also I done wrote to my mama, an she send
 me back a long letter the gist of which is "How can you do this to your po ole
 mama when she is in the po house an you is all she got lef in the world?"
 I dared not tell her that I am facin a jail sentence if I don
Woman, Ape and Idiot in Next U.S. Space Effort.
America Launching Odd Messengers Toward Alien Planets.
Girl, Goon, and Gorilla to Lift Off Today.
Up They Go—But
 Who's in Charge?
New Space Probe Has Varied Crew.
They ain't sposed to eat no
 breakfast the day of the flight.
Yes we is,
No they ain't,
t
 nobody hungry anymore.
 They get us into our space suits an take us out there to the launchin pad in
 a little bus with ole Sue ridin in back in a cage. The spaceship is about a
 hundrit stories tall an is all foamin an hissin an steamin an look like it bout to
 eat us alive! A elevator take us to the capsule we is to be in, an they strap us
 in an load ole Sue in her place in back. Then we wait.
 An we wait some more.
 An we wait some more.
 An we wait some more.
 All along, the spaceship be boilin an hissin an growlin an steamin.
 Somebody say a hundrit million people out there watchin us on television. I
 reckon they be waitin too.
 Anyhow, bout noon, somebody come up an knock on the spaceship door
 an say, we is temporarily cancelin this mission till they get the spaceship
 fixed.
 So we all get to go back down in the elevator again, me, Sue, an Major
 Fritch. She be the only one moanin an bitchin, cause Sue an me is very
 relieved.
 Our relief was not to last long, however. Bout a hour later somebody run
 into the room where we is jus about to set down to lunch an say, "Get in your
 space suits again right now! They is fixin to shoot you up in space!"
 Everbody be hollerin an shoutin again an rushin aroun. I reckon maybe a
 bunch of the tv viewers have called in to complain or somethin, an so they
 decided to lite that fire under our asses no matter what. Whatever it is, it don
Jesus, we forgot the
 goddamn ape!
ten,
t Sue settin there at all, it is a big ole male ape, what got his
 teeth bared an is grappin holt of his seatbelt straps like he is about to bust
 loose any secont!
 I tell Major Fritch an she look aroun an say, "Oh my God!" an get on the
 radio to whoever it is in the groun control tower. "Listen," she say, "you has
 made a mistake an put one of them male apes in here with us, so we better
 call this thing off till it is straightened out." But all of a sudden the spaceship
 start to rumblin an quakin an the guy in the control tower says over the radio,
 "That

 An away we go.
13
 MY FIRST IMPRESSION IS OF BEIN SQUASHED UNDER somethin,
 such as my daddy was when them bananas fell on him. Can't move, can't yell,
 can't say nothin, can't do nothin—we is strictly here for the ride. Outside,
 lookin thru the winder, all I can see is blue sky. The spaceship is movin out.
 After a little wile, we seem to slow down some, an things ease up. Major
 Fritch say we can unbuckle our seatbelts now, an get on bout our bidness,
 whatever it is. She say we is now travelin at a speed of fifteen thousan miles a
 hour. I look back an sure enough, the earth is only a little ball behin us, just
 like it look in all them pichers from outer space. I look aroun, an there's the
 big ole ape, all sour-lookin, an glum, glarin at Major Fritch an me. She say
 maybe he want his lunch or somethin, an for me to go on back there an give
 him a banana afore he gets angry an does somethin bad.
 They has packed a little bag of food for the ape an it contain bananas an
 some cereals an dried berries an leaves an shit like that. I get it open an start
 rummagin thru it lookin for somethin that will make the ape happy, an
 meantime, Major Fritch is on the radio with Houston Groun Control.
 
 she say, 
t Sue—it is a male ape, an he don

 It took a wile for the message to get there an a reply to get back to us, but
 some feller down there say, 

 
 Major Fritch say. 

 An after a minute or two a voice come cracklin over the radio, say,
 
s got between its legs."
 Major Fritch look at me an shake her head. "Aye, aye, sir," she say, "but
 I
m in here with him—you
 understand that?"
An from the ground control there come back one word:
 "Roger."
 Actually, after you get used to it, bein in outer space is kind of fun. We is
 without gravity, an so can float all over the spaceship, an the scenery is
 remarkable—moon an sun, earth an stars. I wonder where Jenny Curran is
 down there, an what she is doin.
 Aroun an aroun the earth we go. Day an night go by ever hour or so an it
 sort of put a different perspective on things. I mean, here I am doin this, an
 when I get back—or should I say if I get back—what then? Go an start up my
 little srimp-growin bidness? Go find Jenny again? Play in The Cracked Eggs?
 Do somethin about my mama bein in the po house? It is all very strange.
 Major Fritch be catchin a wink or two of sleep whenever she can, but
 when she ain
t supper or
 lunchtime. Hell, all we got to eat is Granola bars anyway. I don
t bitch all the time.
 An furthermore, let me say this: that ape ain
Home on the Range,
The Yellow Rose of Texas
I
 Dream of Jeannie with the Light Brown Hair.
Idiot Plays Space Music to Soothe Ape.
Git away from me you awful thing.
 Keep your hans to yoursef!
t long before I find out what it is. I have gone behin this little
 partition to take a pee in a jar in private, when all of a sudden I hear this
 commotion. I stick my head aroun the partition an Sue has managed to grap a
 holt of Major Fritch an he has got his han down in her space suit. She is
 yellin an hollerin to beat the band an is crackin Sue over the head with the
 radio microphone.
 Then it dawns on me what the problem is. Wile we has been up in space
 for nearly two days, ole Sue been strapped into his seat an ain
s like. He must be bout
 to bust! Anyhow, I go over an got him away from Major Fritch an she still
 hollerin an yellin, callin him a "filthy animal," an shit like that. When she get
 loose, Major Fritch go up to the front of the cockpit an put her head down an
 start sobbin. I unstrap Sue an take him behin the partition with me.
 I find a empty bottle for him to pee in, but after he finished, he take the
 bottle an heave it into a panel of colored lights an it bust to pieces an all the
 pee start floatin aroun in the spaceship. I say, to hell with this, an start leadin
 Sue back to his seat when I seen a big glob of pee headin straight for Major
 Fritch. It look like it gonna hit her in the back of the head, so I turn Sue loose
 an try to head off the pee with a net they have give us for catchin stuff that
Stop him! Stop him!
What in hell is goin on up
 there?
t grap holt of nothin, can
t stan up or set down. The voice of groun control come over
 the radio again, say, "We is noticin some kine of minor stabilization trouble
 with your craft. Forrest, will you manually insert the D-six program into the
 starboard computer?"
 Shit—he got to be jokin! I
t look good. That earth comin up on us mighty fast.
 Somehow I managed to get to where the starboard computer is, an hold
 on to the panel with one han an I
What is you doin over there?
Forgit that, you
 stupid turd—we is already done passed over the Indian Ocean. Wait till we
 go roun again an see if you can set us down in the South Pacific.
t take much time to go roun the world when you
 is in a spaceship, an Major Fritch has grapped holt to the radio microphone an
 is hollerin at them people at groun control that we is headed for either a
 splash-down or crash-down in the South Pacific Ocean an to come get us as
 soon as they can. I
Pull the parachute lever!
s curtains for us, since we is goin bout ten thousan miles a hour, an
 headed straight for a big ole green blob of land in the ocean. We hit that goin
 this fast, ain
pop
t pulled the parachute lever hissef an saved
 our asses. I remind mysef then an there to feed him a banana when all this
 shit is over.
 Anyhow, the spaceship be swingin back an forth under the parachute, an
 it look like we is gonna hit the big ole green blob of land—which apparently
 ain
t nothin gone right from the time we set foot in this
 contraption, so why should anybody expect it to now?
 Major Fritch is on the radio an sayin to groun control, "We is bout to land
 on someplace north of Australia out in the ocean, but I ain

 Couple of seconts later a voice come back say, 
t sure where
 you is, why don

 So Major Fritch put the radio down an go look out the winder an she say,
 
 but when she try to tell that to
 groun control, the radio done gone dead.
 We be gettin real close to the earth now, an the spaceship still swinging
 under the parachute. There is nothin but jungle an mountains beneath us cept
 for a little bitty lake that is kind of brown. We can barely make out somethin
 going on nex to the lake down there. The three of us—me, Sue an Major
 Fritch—all got our noses pressed to the winder lookin down, an all of a
 sudden Major Fritch cry out, 
t Borneo—this is fuckin
 New Guinea, an all that shit on the groun must be one of them Cargo Cults or
 somethin!"
 Sue an me lookin down hard, an there on the groun nex to the lake,
 lookin back at us, is about a thousan natives, all with they arms raised up
 towards us. They is wearin little grass skirts an has their hair all flayed out, an
some is carryin shields an spears.
 "Damn," I say, "what you say they is?"
 "Cargo Cult," Major Fritch say. "In World War II we used to drop
 packages of candy an stuff like that on these jungle bunnies to keep em on
 our side, an they ain

 
 I says.
 
 Major Fritch say curiously.
 
t this where cannibals come from?" I axed.
 "I reckon we will soon find out," she say.
 Spaceship is gently swingin towards the lake, an jus afore we hit, they
 start beatin they drums an movin they mouths up and down. We can
s to see what we is. Major Fritch say maybe they is upset
 cause we didn
t want to make no false moves with
 these spooks. Seven or eight of they biggest fellas jumps into the water and
 begin pushin us over to land.
 Major Fritch still be settin there figgerin when there is a big knock at the
 door of the spaceship. We all look at each other an Major Fritch say, "Don

 An I say, 
t let em in."
 "Just be quiet," she say, "an maybe they think nobody

 So we waited, but sure enough, after a wile they is another knock on the
 spaceship.
 I say, 
t polite not to answer the door," an Major Fritch hiss back at
 me, "Shut up your dumbfool ass—can

 Then all of a sudden ole Sue go over an open the door hissef. Standin
 there outside is the biggest coon I has seen since we played them Nebraska
 corn shucker jackoffs in the Orange Bowl.
 He got a bone thru his nose an is wearin a grass skirt an carryin a spear an
 has a lot of beads strung aroun his neck, an his hair look somethin like that
 Beatle wig Mad Tom o'Bedlam wore in the Shakespeare play.
 This feller seem extremely startled to find Sue starin back at him from
 inside the spaceship door. As a matter of fact, he is so suprised that he keel
over in a dead faint. Major Fritch an me is peepin out the winder again, an
 when all them other natives seen this feller keel over, they run off in the
 shrubs an hide—I guess to wait an see what's gonna happen nex.
 Major Fritch say, 
t make a move," but ole Sue, he
 grapped holt of a bottle that was settin there an he jump out on the groun an
 pour it in the feller
They look friendly enough now,
I spose we better go
 on out an identify ourselfs. The people from NASA will be here in a few
 minutes to pick us up.
ooooh
ahhhh.
Hello—me good boy. Who
 you?
Participants in the NASA multi-orbital pre-planetary sub
gravitational inter-spheroid space-flight trainin mission.
We is Americans,
Do tell!
 Americans! What a jolly fine show—I say!
You speak English?
Why hell yes,
I've been to America before. During the war. I
was recruited by the Office of Strategic Services to learn English, and then
 sent back here to organize our people in guerrilla warfare against the
 Japanese.
s eyes get big an bright.
 It seem kinda funny to me, though—a big ole boon like this speaking
 such good American out in the middle of noplace, so I says, "Where
school?"
 "Why, I went to Yale, old sport," he says. "Boola-Boola, an all that."
 When he say "boola-boola," all them other Sambo
My name is Sam,
At least that's what they called me at Yale.
 My real name's quite a mouthful. What a delight you dropped in. Would you
 like some tea?
Yeah, that'd be good,
You ain't got a phone we can use, do you?
boola-boola.
s hut is the grandest of all. Out in
 front he got a chair look like a throne, an four or five women wearin nothin
 on top are doin whatever he say. One of the things he say is for them to get us
 some tea, an then he point to a couple of big stones for Major Fritch an me to
 set down on. Sue has been followin along behin us all the way, holdin on to
 my han, an Big Sam motion for him to set on the groun.
 "That
 Sam says. 
d you get him?"
 "He works for NASA," Major Fritch says. She ain
You don't say?
Is he paid?
I think he'd like a banana,
I'm awfully sorry,
I think I haven't asked your names.
Major Janet Fritch, United States Air Force. Serial number 04534573.
 That's all I'm going to tell you.
Oh, my dear woman,
You are not a prisoner here. We
 are just poor backward tribesmen. Some say we've not progressed much since
 the Stone Age. We mean you no harm.
I ain't got nothin else to say till I can use the phone,
Very well then,
And what of you, young man?
My name is Forrest,
Really,
Is that taken from your famous Civil War General
 Nathan Bedford Forrest?
Yep,
How very interesting. I say, Forrest, where did you go to school?
Ah, Harvard—the old Crimson,
Yes—I knew it well.
 Lovely bunch of fellows—even if they couldn't get into Yale,
Actually, you do look sort of like a Harvard man at
 that,
boola
boola,
t know what to make
of all this, but I reckon ole Sue does, cause he settin over in the corner by
 hissef, lookin glum.
 Bout nine or ten o
t fed us no food, an Major Fritch say
 maybe I ought to go axe Big Sam for our supper. I start to go out the door of
 the hovel but them two natives cross they spears in front of me, an I get the
 message an go back inside. Suddenly it dawn on me how come we ain
boola-boola.
t shout any louder, we hear this big "conk,"
 which sound like somebody get hit over the head with a board or somethin.
 Everthing get quiet for a moment, then the drums start up again an everbody
 chantin "boola-boola" once more.
 Next mornin, we settin there an Big Sam come thru the door an he say,
 "Hello—did you have a nice sleep?"
 "Hell no," Major Fritch say. "How in God

 Big Sam get a pained look on his face, an say, 
m sorry about that.
 But you see, my people were, ah, sort of expectin a gift of some sort when
 they saw your vehicle drop from the sky. We have been waiting since 1945
 for the return of your people an their presents to us. When they saw that you
 had no presents, naturally they assumed that you were the present, and they
 were prepared to cook you and eat you until I persuaded them otherwise."
 "You
 Major Fritch say.
 
 says Big Sam. 

 
 Major Fritch say.
 Big Sam shrug his shoulders. 
s bout the size of it."
 "That
 says Major Fritch. 

 
 Big Sam say, 

 
 says Major Fritch. 

 
 Big Sam say, 

 
 say Major Fritch.
 

 
 says Major Fritch, 
d rather us take our chances with pygmies
 than with a bunch of fucking cannibals—the pygmies ain

 
 Big Sam say, 

 
 Major Fritch say sourly.
 
 Big Sam says, 

 
 Major Fritch says. 

 

 
 says
 Major Fritch.
 
 Big Sam says, 

 Ole Sue be frownin an noddin his head slowly an lookin sorrowfully out
the door.
 
 Big Sam continue, 

 
 Major Fritch say suspiciously.
 
 say Big Sam, 

 
 Major Fritch axed.
 

 
 Major Fritch squawked.
 
 Big Sam say.
15
 WELL, HERE WE IS, PLANTIN COTTON. ACRES AN ACRES AN acres
 of it. All up an down the whole creation. If they is anythin sure in my life, it
 is that if we ever get our asses outta here, I don't never want to be no cotton
 farmer.
 Several things done happened after that first day in the jungle with Big
 Sam an the cannibals. First, Major Fritch an me has convinced Big Sam not
 to make us give po ole Sue to his tribe to eat. We has persuaded him that Sue
 would be of a lot more use heppin us plant the cotton than he would be as a
 meal. An so ever day there is ole Sue out there with us, wear-in a big straw
 hat an carryin a gunnysack, plantin cotton.
 Also, bout the third or forth week we was there, Big Sam come into our
 hovel an say, 

 An I says, 

 An he say, 
re a Harvard man, you might like to learn."
 An I nod my head, an that
d get out
 his chess set an we
d sit an study
 them chessmen an then he
d get real angry with hissef, an pound on
 his foot with a stick or butt his head against a rock or somethin.
 "For a Harvard man, you is a pretty good chess player," he
d
 say, "See here, Forrest—why did you make that last move?" I wouldn
You know, Forrest, I am surely glad you have come
 here, so I can have somebody to play chess with, an I am glad I have saved
you from that cooking pot. Only thing is, I really would like to win jus one
 chess game from you.
t take no idiot to figger
 out that if I let him win jus one game, he was gonna be satisfied, an have me
 for his supper, then an there. Kinda kep me on my toes, if you know what I
 mean.
 Meantime, a very strange thing has happened with Major Fritch.
 One day she is walkin back from the cotton fields with Sue an me, when
 a big ole black arm poke out from a clump of bushes an beckon her over. Me
 an Sue stopped, an Major Fritch walk over to the clump of bushes an say,
 "Who
 All of a sudden, the big ole arm reached out an
 grapped a holt of Major Fritch an snatched her into the bush. Sue an me
 looked at each other an then run over to where she was. Sue got there first an
 I was about to leap into the bushes mysef, when Sue stop me. He start shakin
 his head an wavin me away, an we walked off a little bit an waited. They was
 all sorts of souns comin from in there, an the bushes is shakin like crazy. I
 finally figgered out what was goin on, but from the soun of Major Fritch's
 voice, it didn't appear she was in no danger or nothin, so Sue an me went on
 back to the village.
 Bout a hour later, here come Major Fritch an this great big ole feller who
 is grinnin ear-to-ear. She has got him by the han, leadin him along. She bring
 him into the hovel an say to me, 
 an she
 lead him forward.
 
 I say. I had seen this feller aroun the village before. Grurck be
 grinnin an noddin an I nodded back. Sue, he be scratchin his balls.
 
 she say, 
t you say?"
 I nod my head.
 "Forrest. You wouldn
 Major Fritch
 axed.
 Now who in hell was she thinkin I would tell, is what I want to know?
 But I just shook my head, an Major Fritch got her shit an went off with
Grurck to his place. An that's the way it was.
 The days an months an finally the years come an go, an ever day me an
 Sue an Major Fritch be workin in the cotton fields, an I am beginnin to feel
 like Uncle Remus or somebody. At night, after I finish wuppin Big Sam at
 chess, I go into the hovel with ole Sue an we set aroun for a wile. It has got to
 where Sue an me can sort of talk to each other, gruntin an makin faces an
 wavin our hans. After a long time I am able to piece together his life story, an
 it turn out to be bout as sorry as mine.
 When he was jus a little bitty ape, Sue's mama an poppa was walkin in
 the jungle one day when these guys come along an thowed a net over them,
 an drug them off. He managed to get on with an aunt an uncle till they kicked
 him out for eatin too much, an then he was on his own.
 He was okay, jus swingin in the trees an eatin bananas till one day he got
 curious bout what is goin on in the rest of the world, an he swang hissef thru
 tree after tree till he come on a village near the edge of the jungle. He is
 thirsty an come down an set by a stream to drink some water when this feller
 come by paddlin a canoe. Sue ain't never seen a canoe, so he set there
 watchin it an the feller paddle over to him. He think the feller want to give
 him a ride, but instead, the feller conked Sue over the head with his oar an
 hog-tied him an nex thing he knew, he was sold to some guy that put him in a
 exhibit in Paris.
 There was this other orangutang in the exhibit, name of Doris, what was
 one of the finest-looking apes he had ever seed, an after a wile, they fell in
 love. The guy that had the exhibit took them aroun the world, an everplace
 he'd go, the main attraction was to put Doris an Sue together in a cage so's
 everbody could watch them screw—that was the kind of exhibit it was.
 Anyway, it was kinda embarrassin for ole Sue, but it were the only chance
 they had.
 Then one time they was on exhibit in Japan, an some guy come up to the
 feller running the show an offer to buy Doris. So off she went, Sue knowed
 not where, an he was by hissef.
 That caused a definate change in Sue's attitude. He got grouchy, an when
they put him on display, he took to growlin an snarlin an finally he begun
 takin a shit an then flingin the shit thru the cage bars all over them people
 what had paid their good money to see what an orangutang acts like.
 After a wile of this, the exhibit feller got fed up an sold Sue to the NASA
 people an that's how come he wind up here. I know how he feels a little,
 cause he's still lonesome for Doris, an I'm still lonesome for Jenny Curran, an
 ain't a day go by I ain't wonderin what's become of her. But here we both is,
 stuck out in the middle of nowhere.
 The cotton farmin adventure of Big Sam's is beyon anyone's wildest
 dreams. We has sowed an harvested bale after bale, an they is storin it in big
 grass shacks built up off the groun. Finally one day, Big Sam say they is fixin
 to construct a big boat—a barge—to load up the cotton an fight our way thru
 pygmy country down to where we can sell the cotton an make a fortune.
 
 Big Sam says. 

 I axed him what was that, an he say, 

 So this is the kind of deal we is in.
 Anyhow, the months go by, an we is harvesting the last cotton crop of the
 season. Big Sam has done just bout finished the river barge that is to take us
 thru pygmy country to the town, an the night before we is to leave, they hold
 a big hoedown to celebrate everthin an also ward off evil spirits.
 All the tribe be settin aroun the fire chantin 
 and beatin on
 they drums. They has also drug out that big cauldron an got it on the fire
 steamin an boilin, but Big Sam say it is only a 

 We is settin there playin chess, an let me tell you this—I am so excited I
 am bout to bust! Just let us get near a town or city, an we is long gone. Ole
 Sue knows the deal too, cause he's settin over there with a big grin on his
 face, ticklin hissef under the arms.
We has played one or two games of chess an is bout to finish another,
 when I suddenly look down, an damned if Big Sam ain't got me in check. He
 is smilin so big, all I can see in the dark is his teeth, an I figger I had better
 get outta this situation quick.
 Only problem is, I can't. Wile I've been assin aroun countin my chickens
 afore they're hatched, I have put mysef in a impossible position on the
 chessboard. They ain't no way out.
 I studied that thing for a wile, my frown lit up plain as day from the fire's
 reflection off Big Sam's smilin teeth, an then I says, 
 Big Sam nod, still grinnin, an I'll tell you this, it was the first time I
 can remember when sayin somethin like that got me out of trouble instead of
 in it.
 I went on back behin the hovel an took a pee, but then instead of goin
 back to the chess game, I went in an got ole Sue an splained to him what the
 deal was. Then I snuck up on Grurck's hut an whispered for Major Fritch. She
 come out, an I tole her too, an say we'd better get our butts outta here afore
 we is all parboiled or somethin.
 Well, we all decided to make a break for it. Grurck, he say he's comin
 with us on account of he's in love with Major Fritch—or however he
 expressed it. Anyway, the four of us started creepin out of the village an we
 got down to the edge of the river an was just bout to get in one of the native
 canoes, when all of a sudden I look up an standin there over me is Big Sam
 with about a thousan of his natives, lookin mean an disappointed.
 
 he say, 
 An I tell him, 

 
 he say, he knowed what I meant, an then his men grapped us up
 an haul us back to the village under armed guard. The cookin cauldron is
 bubblin an steamin to beat the band an they has got us tied to stakes in the
 groun an the outlook is somethin less than rosy.
 
 Big Sam say, 
As for you, madam,
I am sorry to have
 to bring your little affaire d'amour with old Grurck here to an end, but you
 know how it is.
No I don't know how it is, you despicable savage,
Where do you get off, anyway? You oughta be ashamed of yoursef!
Perhaps we can serve you an Grurck on the same platter,
a little light an dark meat—myself, I'll take a thigh, or possibly a
 breast—now that would be a nice touch.
You vile, unspeakable ass!
Whatever,
And now, let the feast begin!
stock,
It is the pygmies!
Get to your arms!
t got no spears or knives, Major Fritch, me an Sue an Grurck
 start runnin down towards the river again, but we ain
Well, old sport,
seems like you were saved in the nick of
 time, doesn't it?
t sure if we isn
Tell you what,
looks like it's all over for me an my
 fellers, but maybe you have a chance. If you can get to that harmonica of
 yours an play a little tune or two, it might save your life. The king of the
 pygmies is crazy for American music.
Thanks,
Don't mention it, old sport,
Knight to bishop three—then rook ten to king seven—that's how I beat
 you!
s trussed-up natives begun
 chantin "boola-boola" again. Things are lookin down for us all.
16
 AFTER THEY DONE FINISHED COOKIN BIG SAM
What do you spose they intend to do with us?
I don't know, an I don't give a shit,
m tired of all this crappola. A man can take jus so much.
 Anyhow, after about a day or so we come to the village of the pygmies,
 an as you might expec, they has got a bunch of little tiny huts in a clearin in
 the jungle. They truck us up to a hut in the center of the clearin where there is
 a bunch of pygmies standin aroun—an one little ole feller with a long white
 beard an no teeth settin up in a high chair like a baby. I figger him to be the
 king of the pygmies.
 They tumped us out onto the groun an untied us, an we stood up an
 dusted ourselfs off an the king of the pygmies commence jabberin some
 gibberish an then he get down from his chair an go straight up to Sue an kick
 him in the balls.
 "How come he done that?" I axed Grurck, who had learnt to speak some
 English wile he was livin with Major Fritch.
 "Him want to know if ape is boy or girl," Grurck say.
 I figger there must be a nicer way to find that out, but I ain
m preparing to get kicked in the balls too,
 but Grurck say, "Him want to know why you livin with them awful
 cannibals."
 "Tell him it weren
 Major Fritch pipe up an say.
 
 I says. 

 Grurck say this to the king an he be peerin at us real hard, an then he axe
Grurck somethin.
 
s he say?" Major Fritch want to know.
 "Him axe what the ape plays," say Grurck.
 "Tell him the ape plays the spears," I say, an Grurck do that, an then the
 king of the pygmies announce he want to hear us perform.
 I get out my harmonica an start playin a little tune—"De Camptown
 Races." King of the pygmies listen for a minute, then he start clappin his hans
 an doin what look to be a clog dance.
 After I
t play nothin—he is the manager.
 King of the pygmies look sort of puzzled an say he ain
s see what sort of music we come
 up with.
 Soon as we get the spears an knives, I say, "Okay—now!" an ole Sue
 conk the king of the pygmies over the head with his spear an Major Fritch
 threatened a couple of pygmies with her knives an we run off into the jungle
 with the pygmies in hot pursuit.
 The pygmies be thowin all sorts of rocks an shit at us from behin, an
 shootin they bows an arrows an darts from blowguns an such. Suddenly we
 come out on the bank of a river an ain
Mister Gump, I presume?
Where the fuck has you assholes been?
We
 been stranded in the jungle nearly four goddamn years!
Sorry bout that, ma'am,
but we has got our priorities,
 too, you know.
Well folks, civilization is just aroun the corner. I reckon you'll all be able to
 sell your stories to a magazine an make a fortune.
Stop the canoe!
I have made a decision,
For the first time in my life,
 I have found a man that truly understands me, an I am not going to let him
 go. For nearly four years, Grurck an I have lived happily in this land, an I
 have decided to stay here with him. We will go off in the jungle an make a
 new life for ourselfs, an raise a family an live happily ever after.
But this man is a cannibal,
Eat your heart out, buster,
Wait a minute,
What you thinkin bout?
t sayin nothin, but they is a little bitty tear in his eye, an I knowed
 then what was bout to happen. He grapped me aroun the shoulders in a big
 hug, an then leaped out of the boat an ran up a tree on the shore. Last we seen
of him, he is swingin away thru the jungle on a vine.
 The feller from NASA be shakin his head. "Well, what about you,
 numbnuts? You gonna follow your friends there into Bonzoland?"
 I looked after them for a minute, then I said, "Uh, uh," an set back down
 in the canoe. Wile they was paddlin us away, don
t think
 bout it for a moment. But I jus couldn
m expectin to see the same ole
 President what fed me breakfast an let me watch "The Beverly Hillbillies,"
 but they is got a new President now—feller with his hair all slicked back,
 puffy little cheeks an a nose look like Pinocchio
Tell me now,
did you have an exciting trip?
Oh, ah, accually what I
 meant was, how great it is that you have escaped from your ordeal in the
 jungle.
Er, now what about your companion?
Sue?
Was that her name?
Says
 here it was a Major Janet Fritch, and that even as you were being rescued she
 was dragged off into the jungle by a cannibal.
Where it say that?
Right here,
That's not so,
Are you suggesting I am a liar?
I'm jus sayin it ain't so,
Now look here,
I am your commander in chief. I am
 not a crook. I do not lie!
I am very sorry,
but it ain't the truth bout Major Fritch. You jus
 take that off a card, but—
Tape!
Huh?
No, no,
He said 'take'—not 'tape'—Mister
 President.
TAPE!
I told you never to mention that word in
 my presence again! You are all a bunch of disloyal Communist swines.
None of you understand. I don't know anything bout anything! I never
 heard of anything! And if I did, I either forgot it, or it is top secret!
But Mister President,
he didn't say it. He only
 said—
Now you are calling me a liar!
You're fired!
But you can't fire me,
I am the Vice President.
Well, pardon me for saying so,
but you are never
 going to make President if you go aroun calling your commander in chief a
 liar.
No, I guess you're right,
I beg your pardon.
No, I beg yours,
Whatever,
If you will
all excuse me now, I have to go pee.
That's the first sensible idea I have heard all day,
Say, aren't you the same fellow that played ping
pong and saved the life of old Chairman Mao?
Yup,
Well what did you want to do a thing
 like that for?
Cause he was drownin,
You should
 have held him under, instead of saving him. Anyway, it's history now,
 because the son of a bitch died while you were away in the jungle.
You got a tv set?
Yeah, I have one, but I don't
 watch it much these days. Too much bad news.
You ever watch 'The Beverly Hillbillies'?
It's not on yet,
What is?
 'To Tell the Truth'—but you don't want to look at that—it's a bunch of
 shit.
Look here, I have a meeting to go to, why don't I walk
 you to the door?
Listen, you want to buy a watch?
Huh?
I ain't got no money,
Well, you
 come back when you do and we'll work something out, okay?
m gone. But I
m wonderin what they gonna do with me now, but I don
Listen
 here, Gump, the free ride's over. The government ain't payin for none of this
 anymore—you're on your own now.
Well, okay,
but how bout givin me a little travelin money to get
 home on. I'm kinda light right now.
Forget it, Gump,
You is lucky not to be in jail for conkin the
 Clerk of the Senate on the head with that medal. We done you a favor to get
 you off that rap—but we is washin our hans of your ass as of right now.
t got no things to pack, it wadn
s face an they is carryin
 some kind of signs. I figger he must be pleased to be so popular with
 everbody.
17
 EVEN THO THEY SAID THEY WOULDN
m okay. But one of them nuns says, "We ain

 When I axed where she was, the nun say, 
 I thanked her an hanged up the phone. In a way, I'm sort of
 relieved. At least mama done run off with somebody, an ain't in the po house
 no more. I figger I got to find her, but to tell the truth, I ain't in no big hurry,
 cause sure as it's gonna rain, she'll be bawlin an hollerin an fussin at me on
 account of I lef home.
 It did rain. Rained cats an dogs an I foun me a awnin to stand under till
 some guy come out an run me off. I was soakin wet an cold an walkin past
 some government buildin in Washington when I seen a big ole plastic
 garbage bag settin in the middle of the sidewalk. Just as I get close to it, the
 bag commenced to move a little bit, like there is somethin in there!
 I stopped an went up to the bag an nudged it a little with my toe.
 Suddenly the bag jump bout four feet back an a voice come out from under it,
 say, 

 
 I axed, an the voice say back, 

 
 I say.
 
 the voice say. 

 
 I axed.
 All of a sudden the bag lift up a little an a feller's head peek out, squintin
 up at me like I'm some kinda idiot.
 
 the feller says.
 
 I answered. 
m jus tryin to get outta the rain."
The feller under the bag is pretty sorry-lookin, half bald-headed, ain
Well,
in that case I reckon it okay for a little wile—here.
What I'm sposed to do with this?
Open it up an git under it, you damn fool—you said you wanted to git
 outta the rain.
t so bad, really.
 They was some hot air comin up outta the grate an it make the bag all warm
 an cozy inside an kep off the rain. We be squattin side-by-side on the grate
 with the bags over us an after a wile the feller says over to me, "What

 
 I says.
 

 
s your name?" I axed.
 "Dan," he say.
 "Dan? Dan?—hey, wait a minute," I says. I thowed off my garbage bag
 an went an lifted up the bag off the feller an it was him! Ain
t no history job
 available, so they made him teach math. He hated math, an besides, the math
 class was on the secont floor of the school an he had a hell of a time makin it
 up the stairs with no legs an all. Also, his wife done run off with a tv
 producer that lived in New Yawk an she sued him for divorce on grounds of
 "incompatibility."
 He took to drinkin an lost his job an jus didn
give up,
s a little money ever
 month from his disability pension, but most of the time he jus give it away to
 the other bums.
 "I dunno, Forrest," he say, "I guess I

 Dan han me a few bucks an say to go aroun the corner an git us a couple
 of bottles of Red Dagger wine. I jus got one bottle tho, an used the money for
 mine to git one of them ready-made sambwiches, cause I ain't had nothin to
 eat all day.
 
 Dan say after he has polished off half his wine, 

 So I did. I tole him about goin to China an playin ping-pong, an findin
 Jenny Curran again, an playin in The Cracked Eggs band an the peace
 demonstration where I thowed my medal away an got put in jail.
 
t have
 thowed my medals away. Look here," he say. He unbutton his jacket an
 inside, on his shirt, is all his medals—Purple Heart, Silver Star—must of
 been ten or twelve of them.
 "They remind me of somethin," he said. "I
s jus a part of it. I have suffered a loss, Forrest, far
 greater than my legs. It

 
natural laws
s in charge of everthin?" I axe him.
 "What about the 
 that we has all got to fit ourself into?"
 "Fuck all that," he say. "It was just a bunch of philosophic bullshit."
 "But ever since you tole it to me, that
tide

 
 he say. 
m a
 goddamn legless freak. A bum. A drunkard. A thirty-five-year-old vagrant."
"It could be worse," I says.
 "Oh yeah? How?" he say, an I reckon he got me there, so I finished tellin
 him bout mysef—gettin thowed in the loony bin an then bein shot up in the
 rocket an landin down with the cannibals an bout ole Sue an Major Fritch an
 the pygmies.
 "Well my God, Forrest my boy, you sure as hell have had some
 adventures," Dan say. "So how come you are sittin here with me on the grates
 under a garbage bag?"
 "I dunno," I says, "but I ain

 

 
 I say, 
m gonna get off my big fat butt an go
 lookin for Jenny Curran."
 "Where is she?"
 "Dunno that either," I says, "but I

 
 he say.
 I look over at Dan an his eyes is gleamin from behin his beard. Somethin
 is tellin me he is the one needs some hep, but that's okay with me.
 Ole Dan an me, we went to a mission flophouse that night on account of
 it didn't stop rainin, an Dan, he paid them fifty cents apiece for our suppers an
 a quarter for our beds. You could of got supper free for settin an listenin to a
 sermon or somesuch, but Dan say he'd sleep out in the rain afore wastin our
 precious time hearin a Bible-thumper give us his view of the world.
 Next mornin Dan loaned me a dollar an I foun a pay phone an called up
 to Boston to ole Mose, that used to be the drummer for The Cracked Eggs.
 Sure enough, he still there in his place, an is damn suprised to hear from me.
 
t believe it!" Mose say. "We had given your ass up for
 lost!"
 The Cracked Eggs, he says, have broken up. All the money that Mister
 Feeblestein have promised them is eaten up by expenses or somethin, an after
the secont record they didn
s or the Iggles or
 somethin—an most of the fellers in The Cracked Eggs is gone someplace an
 foun real jobs.
 Jenny, Mose say, is not been heard of in a long wile. After she had gone
 down to Washington for the peace demonstration where I was arrested, she
 went back with The Cracked Eggs for a few months, but Mose say somethin
 in her jus wadn
I ain't
 got a clue.
You still playin your harmonica?
Yeah, sometimes,
Jenny Curran—Jenny?
s voice say. "Oh, yeah—I remember her.
 Nice little piece of ass. Been a long time."
 "You know where she

 

 



 I thank the guy an went back an tole Dan.
 
 he say, 
s nice there in the
 fall."
 We started tryin to thumb a ride out of Washington, but didn
t want to pick us up. I guess we was too
 funny-lookin or somethin—Dan settin on his little roller dolly an my big ole
 ass standin nex to him. Anyhow, Dan say why don
s
 got enough money for that. To tell you the truth, I felt bad about takin his
 money, but somehow I figgered that he wanted to go, and it would be good to
 get him outta Washington too.
 An so we caught a bus to Indianapolis an I put Dan in the seat nex to me
 an stowed his little cart in the shelf up above. All the way there he be sluggin
 down Red Dagger wine an sayin what a shitty place the world is to live in.
 Maybe he
t know. I
Ain't no loiterin on the street,
t no sidewalks an Dan
 can
Temperer Tires,
re-treads,
t nobody allowed to go there cept
m just standin there, tryin to decide what to do, an
 the woman say, "Look, honey, they is bout to get a lunch break in a minute or
 so, why don
ll come out,"
 so that
s settin on the
 groun, an I says, "That shore look like a tasty sambwich." She didn
Forrest, it has to be you.
m doin the same an everbody else
 in re-treads is standin there wonderin what is goin on. Jenny say she is off
 work in bout three hours, an for me an Dan to go over to this little tavern
 across the street an have a beer or somethin an wait for her. Then she will
 take us to her place.
 We go to the tavern an Dan is drinkin some Ripple wine on account of
 they got no Red Dagger, but he say Ripple is better anyhow cause it got a
 nicer "bouquet."
 Bunch of other fellers is in there too, playin darts an drinkin an arm
 rasslin each other at a table. One big ole guy seem to be the bes arm rassler of
 the tavern, an ever once in a wile some feller would come up an try to beat
 him but couldn
Forrest, you think you could
 beat that big bozo over there at arm rasslin?
Well, here's five bucks, cause I'm bettin you can.
Would you mine if I set down an arm
 rassle with you?
Long as you got money, you is
 welcome to try.
s hans an somebody say, "Go!"
 an the rassle is on. Other feller be gruntin an strainin like a dog tryin to shit a
 peach seed, but in about ten secons I had smushed his arm down on the table
 an whipped him at arm rasslin. All the other fellers had come gatherin aroun
 the table an were goin "oooh" an "ahh" an I could hear ole Dan shoutin an
 cheerin.
 Well, the other feller ain
My elbow slipped,
but nex time you come back here I want to
have a go at you again, hear?
Forrest,
we may have foun a easy way to make ourselfs some
 bread.
You git anything you want,
 Forrest. We is now got a way to earn a livelyhood.
t wear no underwear or nothin,
 an nobody flushed the toilets. She an this guy decided to take an apartment
 together, cause he didn
t
 work out.
 "You know, Forrest," she say, "I even tried to fall in love with him, but I
 jus couldn

 She had wrote to her mama an axed her to get in touch with my mama to
 try an find out where I was bein kept, but her mama write her back sayin our
 house done burnt up an my mama is now livin in the po house, but by the
 time the letter get to Jenny, Mama done already run off with the protestant.
Anyhow, Jenny said she didn't have no money an so she heard they is
 hirin people at the tire company an she come down to Indianapolis to get a
 job. Bout that time she seen on the television that I am bout to be launched
 into space, but they is no time for her to get down to Houston. She say she
 watched, 
 as my spaceship crashed, an she give me up for dead.
 Ever since, she jus been puttin in her time makin re-treads.
 I took her an hole her in my arms an we stayed like that for a wile. Dan
 rolled hissef into the bathroom, say he's got to take a pee. When he's in there,
 Jenny axe how he gonna do that, an don't he need hep? an I say, 

 She shake her head an say, 

 There ain't much disputin that either. It is a sad an sorry spectacle when a
 no-legged man have got to pee in his hat an then dump it over into the toilet.
 The three of us settle into Jenny's little apartment after that. Jenny fixed
 up Dan a place in a corner of the livin room with a little mattress an she kep a
 jar on the bathroom floor so he wouldn't have to use his hat. Ever mornin
 she'd go off to the tire company an Dan an me would set aroun the house an
 talk an then go down to the little tavern near where Jenny worked to wait till
 she got off.
 First week we started doin that, the guy I beat arm rasslin wanted a
 chance to git back his five bucks an I gave it to him. He tried two or three
 times more an in the end lost bout twenty-five dollars an after that he didn't
 come back no more. But they was always some other feller wanted to try his
 luck an after a month or two they was guys comin from all over town an from
 other little towns too. Dan an me, we is pullin in bout a hundrit fifty or two
 hundrit dollars a week, which weren't bad, let me tell you. An the owner of
 the tavern, he is sayin he gonna hole a national contest, an git the tv there an
 everthing. But before that happen, another thing come along that changed my
 life for sure.
 One day a feller come into the tavern that was wearin a white suit an a
 Hiwaian shirt an a lot of gold jewelry aroun his neck. He set up at the bar
 wile I was finishin off some guy at arm rasslin an then he come an set down
at our table.
 
s Mike," he say, "an I have heard bout you."
 Dan axed what has he heard, an Mike say, "That this feller here is the
 strongest man in the world."
 "What of it?" Dan says, an the feller say, "I think I got a idea how you
 can make a hell of a lot more money than this nickel an dime shit you

 
s that?" Dan say.
 "Rasslin," says Mike, "but not this piss-ant stuff—I mean the real thing.
 In a ring with hundrits of thousands of payin customers."
 "Rasslin who?" Dan axed.
 "Whoever," says Mike. "They is a circuit of professional rasslers—The
 Masked Marvel, The Incredible Hulk, Georgeous George, Filthy McSwine—
 you name em. The top guys make a hundrit, two hundrit thousand dollars a
 year. We
d be a big star—make everybody a
 pile of money."
 Dan look at me, say, "What you think, Forrest?"
 "I dunno," I says. "I was kinda thinkin bout goin back home an startin a
 little srimp bidness."
 "Shrimp!" says Mike. "Why boy, you can make fifty times more money
 doing this than shrimpin! Don
ll have something to fall back on, money in the bank, a nest egg."
 "Maybe I ought to axe Jenny," I say.
 "Look," Mike say, "I come here to offer you a chance of a lifetime. You
 don
ll be on my way."
 "No, no," Dan say. Then he turn to me. "Listen, Forrest, some of what
 this feller say make sense. I mean, how else you gonna earn enough money to
 start a srimp bidness?"
 "Tell you what," Mike say, "you can even take your buddy here with you.
He can be your manager. Anytime you want to quit, you

 I thought bout it for a minute or so. Sounded pretty good, but usually they
 is some catch. Nevertheless, I open my big mouth an say the fatal word:
 

 Well, that's how I become a professional rassler. Mike had his office in a
 gymnasium in downtown Indianapolis an ever day me an Dan would catch
 the bus down there so's I could get taught the proper way to rassle.
 In a nutshell, it was this: nobody is sposed to get hurt, but it sposed to
 look like they do.
 They be teachin me all sorts of things—half-nelsons, the airplane spin,
 the Boston crab, the pile driver, hammerlocks an all such as that. Also, they
 taught Dan how to yell an scream at the referee, so as to cause the greatest
 commotion.
 Jenny is not too keen on the rasslin bidness on account of she say I might
 git hurt, an when I say nobody gits hurt cause it's all put-on, she say, 
s the point of it?" It is a good question that I cannot rightly answer, but I
 am lookin foward to makin us some money anyhow.
 One day they is tryin to show me somethin called "the belly flop," where
 I is sposed to go flyin thru the air to lan on top of somebody but at the last
 minute he rolls away. But somehow, I keep screwin it up, an two or three
 times I lan right on the feller afore he gits a chance to move out the way.
 Finally Mike come up into the ring an say, "Jesus, Forrest—you some kind of
 idiot or somethin! You could hurt somebody that way, a big ole moose like
 you!"
 An I says, "Yep—I am a idiot," an Mike say, "What you mean?" an then
 Dan, he say for Mike to come over to him for a secont an he splain somethin
 to him, an Mike say, "Good God! Is you kiddin?" an Dan shake his head.
 Mike look at me an shrug his shoulders an say, "Well, I guess it takes all
 kinds."
 Anyway, bout a hour later Mike come runnin out of his office up to the
ring where Dan an me is.
 "I
 he shoutin.
 
 Dan axed.
 

 
 Dan say.
 
 says Mike. 

 Dan think for a minute. 
 he says, 
t much like it. Sounds
 like you are tryin to make a fool out of him."
 "It
 Mike say. 

 
 say Dan. 

 
 Mike says.
 
t like it," Dan say. He looks at me, an axed, "What you think,
 Forrest?"
 "I don
 I says.
 Well, that was the way it was. After all them months of trainin I am
 finally bout to make my debut as a rassler. Mike come in to the gym the day
 before the big match an he has a box with my diaper an a big ole black dunce
 cap. He say to be back at the gym at noon tomorrow so he can drive us to my
 first rasslin match which is in Muncie.
 That night when Jenny get home I gone into the bathroom an put on the
 diaper an the dunce cap an come out into the livin room. Dan is settin on his
 little platform cart watchin tv an Jenny is readin a book. Both of them look up
 when I walk thru the door.
 
 Jenny says.

s his costume," say Dan.
 "It makes you look like a fool," she say.
 "Look at it this way," Dan says. "It

 
 says Jenny. 
t believe it! You

 
s only to make money," Dan say. "They got one guy called 
 that wears turnip greens for a jockstrap an puts a hollowed-out
 watermelon over his head with little eyes cut out for him to see thru. Another
 guy calls himself 
 an has wings on his back an carries a wand.
 Sumbitch probly weighs three hundred pounds—you oughta see him."
 "I don
 Jenny says, 
t like this one
 bit. Forrest, you go an get out of that outfit."
 I gone on back to the bathroom an took off the costume. Maybe Jenny is
 right, I
s got to make a livin. Anyhow, it ain
The
 Turd,
seniority
s my first
 appearance, it is necessary for me to be on the losin end. Mike say he jus
 want to tell me how it is from the beginnin so there won
That is rediculous,
somebody callin theyself 'The Turd.' 
He probly is one,
Just remember, Forrest,
it's all for show. You can't lose
 your temper. Nobody is to be hurt. The Turd must win.
The Animal.
s eyes.
 The Animal be bellowin an staggerin all over the ring rubbin his eyes to
 git the stuff out, an The Vegetable come up behin him an kick him in the ass.
 Then he thowed The Animal into the ropes an wind them up aroun him so
t move an start to beatin the hell outta The Animal. The crowd be
 booin The Vegetable an thowin paper cups an stuff at him an The Vegetable
 be givin them back the finger. I was gettin kinda curious how it was gonna
 wind up, but then Mike come up to me an Dan an say for us to go on back
 into the dressin room an get into my costume cause I
Is The Dunce in there?
Yes,
You is on now, c'mon out,
t actually look somethin like a turd in that
 body stockin. Anyhow, I climbed up in the ring an the referee get us together
 an say, "Okay, boys, I want a good clean match here—no gougin eyes or
 hittin below the belt or bitin or scratchin or any kind of shit like that. I nod an
 say, "Uh-huh," an The Turd be glarin at me fiercely.
 When the bell rung, me an The Turd be circlin each other an he reached
 out with his foot to trip me but missed an I grapped him by the shoulders an
 slung him into the ropes. It was then I foun out he have greased hissef up
 with some kinda slippery shit that make him hard to hold on to. I tried to grap
 him aroun his waist but he shot out from my hans like a eel. I took a holt of
 his arm, but he squished away from that too, an be grinnin an laughin at me.
 Then he come runnin at me head on to butt me in the stomach but I
 stepped aside an The Turd go flyin thru the ropes an land in the front row.
 Everbody be booin an catcallin him, but he climbed on back up in the ring an
 brung with him a foldup chair. He start chasin me aroun with the chair an
 since I got nothin to defend mysef with, I start to run away. But The Turd, he
 hit me in the back with the chair, an let me tell you, that hurt. I tried to get the
 chair away from him, but he conked me on the head with it, an I was in a
 corner an there wadn
t doin no good. The Turd hit me four or five times
 with the chair an knock me down an get on top of me an grap my hair an start
 bangin my head on the floor. Then he grap holt to my arm an begun twistin
 my fingers. I look over at Dan an say, "What the hell is this?" an Dan be tryin
 to get thru the ring ropes but Mike, he stand up an pull Dan back by his shirt
 collar. Then all of a sudden the bell rung, an I get to go to my corner.
"Listen," I says, "this bastid is tryin to kill me, beatin me on the head with
 a chair an all. I is gonna have to do somethin bout it."
 "What you is gonna do is lose," Mike say. "He ain

 
t feel good," I say.
 "Jus stay in there for a few more minutes an then let him pin you down,"
 Mike says. "Remember, you is makin five hundrit dollars for comin here an
 losin—not winnin."
 "He hits me with that chair again, I don
m gonna do," I
 says. I am lookin out in the audience an there is Jenny lookin upset an
 embarrassed. I am beginnin to think this is not the right thing to do.
 Anyhow, the bell rung again an out I go. The Turd try to grap me by the
 hair but I flung him off an he go spinnin into the ropes like a top. Then I
 picked him up aroun the waist an lif him up but he slid out of my grip an land
 on his ass an be moanin an complainin an rubbin his ass, an the nex thing I
 knew, his manager done handed him one of them "plumber
 with
 the rubber thing on the end an he commence to beat me on the head with that.
 Well, I grapped it away from him an busted it in two over my knee an start
 goin after him, but I see Mike there, shakin his head, an so I let The Turd
 come an take holt of my arm an twist it in a hammerlock.
 The sumbitch damn near broke my arm. Then he shoved me down on the
 canvas an begun to hit me in the back of the head with his elbow. I coud see
 Mike over there, noddin an smilin his approval. The Turd get off me an
 commenced to kickin me in the ribs an stomach, then he got his chair again
 an wacked me over the head with it eight or nine times an finally he kneed
 me in the back an there wadn't a thing I coud do bout it.
 I jus lay there, an he set on my head an the referee counted to three an it
 was sposed to be over. The Turd get up an look down at me an he spit in my
 face. It was awful an I didn't know what else to do, an I jus couldn't hep it, an
 I started to cry.
 The Turd was prancin aroun the ring an then Dan come up an rolled
 himsef over to me an started wipin my face with a towel, an nex thing I
knew, Jenny had come up in the ring too an was huggin me an cryin hersef an
 the crowd was hollerin an yellin an throwin stuff into the ring.
 
mon, let
 Dan say, an I got to my feet an The Turd be
 stickin out his tongue at me an makin faces.
 
 Jenny says to The Turd as we was
 leavin the ring. 

 She could of said it bout both of us. I ain't never felt so humiliated in my
 life.
 The ride back to Indianapolis was pretty awkward. Dan an Jenny ain't
 sayin nothin much an I am in the back seat all sore an skint up.
 
 Mike says, 

 
t no performance," Dan says.
 "Oh, shucks," Mike say. "Look—somebody
ll tell
 you what—nex time, I will make sure Forrest wins. How

 
nex time,
 Jenny says.
 
t he?" Mike say.
 "Five hundrit dollars for gettin the shit beat out of him ain

 Jenny says.
 
ll make it six
 hundrit."
 "How about twelve hundrit?" Dan axed.
 "Nine hundrit," Mike says.
 "How bout lettin him wear a bathin suit instead of that dunce cap an
 diapers?" says Jenny.
 "They loved it," Mike says. "It

 
 Dan
says.
 
t a idiot," says Mike.
 "You shut the fuck up bout that," Dan say.
 Well, Mike was good for his word. Nex time I rassled, it was against a
 feller called "The Human Fly." He was dressed up in somethin with a big
 pointed snout like a fly have, an a mask with big ole bugged-out eyes. I got to
 thow him bout the ring an finally set on his head an I collected my nine
 hundrit dollars. Furthermore, everbody in the crowd cheered wildly an kep
 hollerin, "We want The Dunce! We want The Dunce!" It wadn
d go into the ring an they would be fifty or a hundrit
 people settin there in the audience wearin dunce caps, all clappin an cheerin
 an callin out my name. Kinda made me feel good, you know?
 Meantime, me an Jenny is gettin along fairly good cept for my rasslin
 career. Ever night when she get back to the apartment we cook ourselfs some
 supper an her an me an Dan set aroun in the livin room an plan bout how we
 gonna start the srimp bidness. The way we figger it, we is gonna go down to
 Bayou La Batre, where po ole Bubba come from, an get us some marsh land
 off the Gulf of Mexico someplace. We has got to buy us some mesh wire an
 nets an a little rowboat an somethin to feed the srimp wile they growin, an
 they will be other things too. Dan say we has also got to be able to have us a
 place to live an buy groceries an stuff wile we wait for our first profits an also
 have some way to git them to the market. All tole, he figgers it is gonna take
 bout five thousan dollars to set everthing up for the first year—after that, we
 will be on our own.
 The problem I got now is with Jenny. She say we already got the five
 thousan an so why don
t quite ready to
 leave.
 You see, it ain
Awesome Al from Amarillo,
Forrest, you an
 me has got to have a talk.
Forrest, I think this rasslin business is gone far
 enough.
What you mean?
I mean we have got nearly ten thousan dollars now, which is more than
 twice what Dan says we need to start the srimp business. And I am beginnin
 to wonder jus why you are continuin to go up there ever Saturday night an
 make a fool of yoursef.
I ain't makin no fool of mysef,
I has got my fans to think of. I
 am a very popular person. Cain't jus up an leave like that.
Bullshit,
What you callin a 'fan,' an what you mean by
 'popular'? Them people is a bunch of screwballs to be payin money to watch
 all that shit. Bunch of grown men gettin up there in they jockstraps an
 pretendin to hurt each other. An whoever heard of people callin theyselfs 'The
 Vegetable,' or 'The Turd,' an such as that—an you, callin yoursef 'The
 Dunce'!
What's wrong with that?
Well how do you think it makes me feel, the feller I'm in love with bein
 known far an wide as 'The Dunce,' an makin a spectacle of hissef ever week
 —an on television, too!
We get extra money for the television,
Screw the extra money,
We don't need no extra money!
Whoever heard of nobody didn't need any extra money?
We don't need it that bad,
I mean, what I want is to find a
 little quiet place for us to be in an for you to get a respectable job, like the
 srimp business—for us to get us a little house maybe an have a garden an
 maybe a dog or somethin—maybe even kids. I done had my share of fame
 with The Cracked Eggs, an it didn't get me nowhere. I wadn't happy. I'm
 damned near thirty-five years old. I want to settle down....
Look,
it seem to me that I oughta be the one what say if I quit
 or not. I ain't gonna do this forever—jus till it is the right time.
Well I ain't gonna wait aroun forever, neither,
t
 believe she meant it.
20
 I HAD A COUPLE OF MATCHES AFTER THAT AN WON BOTH OF
 them, naturally, an then Mike call Dan an me in his office one day an says,
 "Look here, this week you are gonna rassle The Professor."
 "Who is that?" Dan axed.
 "He comes from California," says Mike, "an is pretty hot stuff out there.
 He is runner up to the Western Division champion."
 "Okay by me," I say.
 "But there is just one other thing," say Mike. "This time, Forrest, you got
 to lose."
 "Lose?" I says.
 "Lose," say Mike. "Look, you been winnin ever week for months an
 months. Don

 

 

 
t like it," I say.
 "How much you payin?" Dan axed.
 "Two thousan."
 "I don
 I says again.
 
s a lot of money," Dan say.
 "I still don
 I says.
 But I took the deal.
 Jenny is been actin sort of peculiar lately, but I put it down to nerves or
 somethin. Then one day she come home an say, 
m at the end of my
 rope. Please don


 I says. 

 
 she say. I splain it to her jus like Mike splain it to me, an she say,
 

 
s my life," I says—whatever that meant.
 Anyway, a day or so later, Dan come back from someplace an says him
 an me got to have a talk.
 "Forrest, I think I got the solution to our problems."
 I axed what it was.
 "I think," says Dan, "we better be bailin out of this business pretty soon. I
 know Jenny don
 he say, 

 
s that?" I axed.
 "I been talkin to a feller downtown. He runs a bookie operation an the
 word is out you gonna lose to The Professor this Saturday."
 "So?" I says.
 "So what if you win?"
 "Win?"
 "Kick his ass."
 "I get in trouble with Mike," I says.
 "Screw Mike," Dan say. "Look, here

 
ll be in all sorts of trouble," I says.
 "We take the twenty grand an blow this town," Dan say. "You know what
 we can do with twenty grand? We can start one hell of a srimp business an
 have a pile left over for ourselves. I
s time to get out of
 this rasslin stuff anyway."
 Well, I
t a bad deal.
 "What you think?" Dan says.
 "Okay," I say. "Okay."
 The day come for me to rassle The Professor. The bout is to be helt up at
 Fort Wayne, an Mike come by to pick us up an is blowin the horn outside, an
 I axed Jenny if she is ready.
 "I ain
 she say. 
ll watch it on television."
 "But you got to go," I says, an then I axed Dan to splain why.
 Dan tole Jenny what the plan was, an that she had to go, on account of we
 needed somebody to drive us back to Indianapolis after I done whupped The
 Professor.
 "Neither of us can drive," he say, "an we gonna have to have a fast car
 right outside the arena when it

 
t havin nothin to do with a deal like that," Jenny say.
 "But it
 I says.
 
s dishonest too," she says.
 "Well, it
s been doin all the time," Dan says, "winnin
 an losin all planned out beforehand."
 "I ain
 Jenny said, an Mike was blowin his horn again, an
 Dan say, 
ll see you back here sometime after it

 
 Jenny say.
 
t be so high-falutin when we come back with twenty thousan
 smackeroos in our pocket," Dan says.
 Anyhow, off we go.
On the ride to Fort Wayne, I ain
m kinda
 embarrassed bout what I
t treated me so
 badly, but on the other han, as Dan have splained, I has made a lot of money
 for him too, so it gonna come out aroun even.
 We get to the arena an the first bout is already on—Juno the Giant is
 gettin the hell kicked out of him by The Fairy. An nex up is a tag team match
 between lady midgets. We gone on into the dressin room an I put on my
 diapers an dunce cap. Dan, he get somebody to dial the number of the taxicab
 company an arrange for a cab to be there outside with its motor runnin after
 my match.
 They beat on my door an it
t look like a professor at that. I decided
 right then to make him eat that hat.
 Well, I climb on up in the ring an the announcer say, "Ladies an
 Gentlemen." At this there be a lot of boos, an then he say, "We is proud
 tonight to have as our main attraction for the North American Professional
 Rasslin Association title bout two of the top contenders in the country—The
 Professor versus The Dunce!"
 At this, they is so much booin an cheerin that it is impossible to say if the
 crowd is happy or angry. It don
m bein scolded. I be tryin to grap a
 holt of him, but ever time, he jump out of the way an keep shakin his finger.
 This go on for a minute or two an then he make a mistake. He run aroun
 behin me an try to kick me in the ass, but I done snatched a holt of him by the
 arm an slung him into the ropes. He come boundin off the ropes like a
 slingshot ball an as he go past me I trip him up an was bout to pounce on him
 with the Bellybuster maneuver, but he done scrambled out of the way to his
 corner an when I look up, he is got a big ole ruler in his han.
He be whoppin the ruler in his palm like he gonna spank me with it, but
 instead, when I grapped for him this time, he done jam the ruler in my eye,
 like to gouge it out. I
t take long to find out what it was—it was ants! Where he got
 them, lord knows, but the ants commence to bitin me an I was in a awful fix.
 Dan is there, hollerin for me to finish him off, but it ain
That was a dirty trick,
Just finish him,
we can't afford no screwups.
t matter cause it
t climbed
 back in the ring an brought with him the ball of yarn the ole lady was knittin
 with, an now he done rapped it aroun my feet.
 I started tryin to wriggle out, but The Professor be runnin circles aroun
 me with the yarn, rappin me up like a mummy. Pretty soon, I am tied up han
 an foot an cain
t nothin I can do. He must of cracked me ten or
 twelve times before I gone down. I am helpless an I am hearin everbody
 cheer as The Professor set on my shoulders an pin me—an win the match.
 Mike an Dan, they come in the ring an unraveled the yarn off me an
 heped me up.
 "Terrific!" Mike say, "Just terrific! I couldn

 
 Dan say. An then he turn to me. 
 he say, 

 I ain't sayin nothin. I am miserable. Everthin is lost an the one thing I
 know for sure is that I ain't gonna rassle never again.
 We didn't need the getaway cab after that, so Dan an me rode back to
 Indianapolis with Mike. All the drive back, he be sayin how great it was that I
 lost to The Professor that way, an how nex time I gonna get to win an make
 everbody thousans of dollars.
 When he pull up in front of the apartment, Mike reach back an han Dan a
 envelope with the two thousan dollars he was gonna pay me for the match.
 
t take it," I says.
 "What?" says Mike.
 "Listen," I say. "I got to tell you somethin."
 Dan cut in. "What he wants to say is, he ain

 
 Mike say.
 
t kiddin," says Dan.
 "Well how come?" Mike axed. "What

 Before I could say anythin, Dan say, 
t want to talk about it now."
 "Well," says Mike, "I understan, I guess. You go get a good night
ll be back first thing in the mornin an we can talk bout it, okay?"
 "Okay," Dan says, an we get out of the car. When Mike is gone, I says,
 "You shouldn


s all the hell we got left now," he say. Everthin else is gone. I
 didn
t seem to care. There is
 something particularly bad about what you are gonna do tonight,
 because it isn
t think
 you can help it exactly, for you were always a "special" person,
 but we no longer seem to think the same way.
 I am in tears as I write this, but we must part now. Please don
t no reason to be in Indianapolis
 no longer. Dan, he come to me an say, "Here, Forrest, take this money," an
 helt out the two thousand dollars Mike had give us for rasslin The Professor.
 "I don
 I says.
 
 says Dan, 
s all we got."
 "You keep it," I says.
 "At least take haf of it," he say. "Look, you gotta have some travelin
 money. Get you to wherever your goin."
 "Ain
 I axed.
 
m afraid not, Forrest," he says. "I think I done enough damage already.
 I didn
m thinkin about how I got you to agree to bet
 all our money, an how I got you to keep on rasslin when it oughta have been
 apparent Jenny was about to freak out on us. An it wadn
t no good."
 "Awe, Dan, it wadn
 I says. 
t of got the big
 head bout bein The Dunce, an begun to believe all that shit they was sayin
 bout me, I wouldn

 
 Dan say, 
t feel right taggin along anymore.
 You got other fish to fry now. Go an fry em. Forget about me. I ain

 Well, me an Dan talked for a long time, but there wadn't no convincin
 him, an after a wile, he got his shit an I hepped him down the steps, an the
 last I seen of him, he was pushin hissef down the street on his little cart, with
 all his clothes an shit piled in his lap.
I went down to the bus station an bought a ticket to Mobile. It was sposed
 to be a two day an two nite trip, down thru Louisville, to Nashville, to
 Birmingham an then Mobile, an I was one miserable idiot, settin there wile
 the bus rolled along.
 We passed thru Louisville durin the nite, an the nex day we stopped in
 Nashville an had to change busses. It was about a three hour wait, so I
 decided to walk aroun town for a wile. I got me a sambwich at a lunch
 counter an a glass of iced tea an was walkin down the street when I seen a big
 sign in front of a hotel say, 
s Invitational Chess
 Tournament."
 It sort of got my curiosity up, on account of I had played all that chess
 back in the jungle with Big Sam, an so I went on into the hotel. They was
 playin the chess game in the ballroom an had a big mob of people watchin,
 but a sign say, "Five dollars admission," and I didn
t say nothin.
 A little bit later, the ole feller
 'scuse me.
d set on a tack, an be glarin across the table at
 me.
 "You make that move," I says, "an you be leavin yoursef wide open to
 lose your knight an then your queen an put your ass in a fix."
 He look down at his chessboard, never takin his han off the bishop, an
then he move it back an say to me, "Possibly you are right."
 Well, he go on back to studyin the chessboard an I figger it
Pardon
 me, but that was a very shrewd observation you made.
Look, you've obviously played the game,
 why don't you sit down an finish this one with me? Just take over the white in
 their positions now.
I cain't,
t no
 other bus till tomorrow. I jus cain
t got but one bishop an no rooks an
 my queen is about to be captured nex.
 It took me most of a hour to git mysef back in a even position, an the ole
 man be kinda gruntin an shakin his head evertime I improve my situation.
 Finally, I dangle a gambit in front of him. He took it, an three moves later I
 got him in check.
 "I will be damned," he say. "Just who are you, anyway?"
 I tole him my name, an he say, "No, I mean, where have you played? I
 don

 When I tole him I learnt to play in New Guinea, an he say, 
t even been in regional
 competition?"
 I shook my head an he says, "Well whether you know it or not, I am a
 former international grand master, and you have just stepped into a game you
 couldn

 I axed how come he wadn't playin in the room with the other people, an
 he says, 
m nearly eighty years old now, an there is a
 sort of senior tournament. The real glory is to the younger fellows now—their
minds are jus sharper."
 I nodded my head an thanked him for the game an got up to go, but he
 says, "Listen, have you had your supper yet?"
 I tole him I had a sambwich a few hours ago, an he say, "Well how about
 letting me buy you dinner? After all, you gave me a superb game."
 I said that woud be okay, an we went into the hotel dinin room. He was a
 nice man. Mister Tribble was his name.
 "Look," Mister Tribble say wile we is havin dinner, "I

 I tole him about headin home an wantin to get into the srimp bidness and
 all, but he say, 
 He said for
 me to think it over tonight, an let him know somethin in the mornin. So me
 an Mister Tribble shook hans, an I went on out in the street.
 I done wandered aroun for a wile, but they ain't a lot to see in Nashville,
 an finally I wound up settin on a bench in a park. I was tryin to think, which
 don't exactly come easy to me, an figger out what to do now. My mind was
 mostly on Jenny an where she is. She say not to try to find her or nothin, but
 they is a feelin down deep in me someplace that she ain't forgot me. I done
 made a fool of mysef in Indianapolis, an I know it. I think it was that I wadn't
 tryin to do the right thing. An now, I ain't sure what the right thing is. I mean,
 here I am, ain't got no money to speak of, an I got to have some to start up the
 srimp bidness, an Mister Tribble say I can win a good bit on the chess circuit.
 But it seem like ever time I do somethin besides tryin to get home an get the
 srimp bidness started, I get my big ass in hot water—so here I am again,
 wonderin what to do.
 I ain't been wonderin long when up come a policeman an axe me what
 I'm doin.
 I says I'm jus settin here thinkin, an he say ain't nobody allowed to set an
think in the park at night an for me to move along. I go on down the street, an
 the policeman be followin me. I didn't know where to go, so after a wile I
 saw an alley an walked on back in it an foun a place to set down an rest my
 feet. I ain't been settin there more'n a minute when the same ole policeman
 come by an see me there.
 
 he say, 
 When I get out to the street, he
 say, 

 I says, 
 an he say, 
s exactly what I thought—you is under
 arrest for loiterin."
 Well, he take me to the jail an lock me up an then in the mornin they say
 I can make one phone call if I want. Course I didn
s what I did. Bout haf a hour later, he shows up at
 the police station an springs me out of jail.
 Then he buys me a big ole breakfast at the hotel an says, "Listen, why
 don

 I still had some doubts, but I figgered it wouldn't hurt to try. So I said I
 woud do it for a wile. Till I got enough money to start the srimp thing. An me
 an Mister Tribble shook hans an become partners.
 Los Angeles was quite a sight. We got there a week early an Mister
 Tribble would spend most of the day coachin me an honin down my game,
 but after a wile of this, he jus shook his head an say there ain't no sense in
 tryin to coach me, cause I got 
 already. So what we
 did was, we went out on the town.
 Mister Tribble took me to Disneyland an let me go on some rides an then
 he arranged to get us a tour of a movie lot. They is got all sorts of movies
 goin on, an people is runnin aroun shoutin 
 an 
 an 

 an shit like that. One of the movies they was doin was a Western an we seen
a feller get hissef thowed thru a plate glass winder about ten times—till he
 got it right.
 Anyway, we was jus standin there watchin this, when some guy walk up
 an says, 

 I says, 
 An Mister Tribble, he says, 

 An the feller say, 
s kind of a shame, because the big guy here,
 he looks ideal for a role in a movie I
 And then he turn to me an feel
 of my arm an say, 
t act?"
 "I did once," I says.
 "Really!" the feller says. "What in?"
 "King Lear."
 "Marvelous, baby," he says, "that

 

 
 he say. 

 
 Mister Tribble say sourly, 

 
 the feller say, 

 
t as smart as I look," I says, tryin to be honest, but the feller say
 none of that matters anyhow, cause actors ain
My name's Felder,
an I make movies. I want you to take a
 screen test.
He has to play in a chess tournament tomorrow,
He has no time for acting or screen tests.
Well, you could squeeze it in, couldn't you? After all, it might be the
 break you've been looking for. Why don't you come along, too, Tribble, we'll
 give you a screen test as well.
We'll try,
Now come along, Forrest, we have a
 little more work to do.
See you later, baby,
don't forget now.
t no big deal. It took me about seven minutes to whup the
 first guy, who was a regional master an also a professor in some college,
 which made me secretly feel kind of good. I had beat a professor after all.
 Nex was a kid about seventeen, an I wiped him out in less than half a
 hour. He thowed a tantrum an then commenced to bawlin an cryin an his
 mama had to come drag him off.
 They was all sorts of people I played that day an the nex, but I beat em all
 pretty fast, which was a relief since when I played against Big Sam I had to
 keep settin there an not go to the bathroom or nothin, cause if I got up from
 the chessboard he would move the pieces aroun an try to cheat.
 Anyhow, by that time I had got my way into the finals an they was a
 day
Please call
 my office this afternoon an arrange for a screen test tomorrow morning,
Well, Forrest,
I don't know bout this. What do you
 think?
I dunno either,
Oh, I don't suppose it would hurt anything,
I guess
 I'll call an set up an appointment.
s office an be
 findin out when an where for us to go an all of a sudden he cup his hand over
 the phone an say to me, "Forrest, can you swim?" An I say, "Yup," an he say
 back into the phone, "Yes, he can."
 After he done hung up, I axed why they want to know if I can swim, an
 Mister Tribble say he don
Ah, Forrest,
terrific you came. Now what I want you to do is
 go thru that door to Makeup and Costuming, and then they will send you
 back out when they are finished.
Okay, take off your clothes.
Terrific, baby! You is perfect for the part!
What part is that?
Oh, didn't I tell you? I am doing a
 remake of The Creature from the Black Lagoon.
Forrest,
I want you to meet Raquel Welch.
Please to meet you,
What'd he say? Something about my tits, wasn't it!
No, baby, no,
He just said he was glad to meet you.
 You can't hear him too well because of that mask he's got on.
Uggh! Let's get this goddamn thing over with.
Put me down!
 Help! Rape!
Put me down! Help, police!
t good enough, an for us to do it again. An
 that wadn
Beautiful, baby,
 beautiful!
m startin to have a real problem tho. On account of I been in the
 creature suit nearly five hours now, an they ain
m bout to bust. But I don
t want to make nobody mad.
 But I gotta do somethin, so
Action!
Help! Murder! Put me
 down!
What is that
 smell?
Cut!
What was that you
 said, baby? That ain't in the script.
Shit on the script! Somethin stinks aroun here!
Hey, you—whoever you are—did you
 take a leak?
Uh uh.
Well somebody sure did,
cause I know pee when I smell it!
 An it wadn't me! So it has to be you! How dare you pee on me, you big oaf!
Put me down!
Get away from me!
Action!
That's it, baby—terrific! Keep it
 up!
s where Mister Felder is fixin to yell "Cut," like he had
 before, but he was jumpin aroun like a wild man, motionin to keep on goin,
 an shoutin, "Perfect, baby! That

 Raquel Welch is still scratchin an flailin at me an screamin, 
 an such as that, but I kep on goin like I'm tole.
 All of a sudden she screech, 

 I ain't noticed it till now, but when I look down, damn if her dress ain't
 caught on some bush back there an done totally unravel itself, Raquel Welch
 is butt neckid in my arms!
 I stopped an said, 
 an started to turn aroun to carry her back, but
 she begin shriekin, 
t go back there like this!"
 I axed what she wanted me to do, an she say we gotta find someplace to
hide till she gets things figgered out. So I keep on goin deeper into the jungle
 when all of a sudden out of noplace come a big object thru the trees, swingin
 towards us on a vine. The object swung past us once an I could tell it was a
 ape of some sort, an then it swung back again an dropped off the vine at our
 feet. I almost fainted dead away. It was ole Sue, hissef!
 Raquel Welch begun to bawlin an hollerin again an Sue has grapped me
 aroun the legs an is huggin me. I don
Do you know this fucking baboon?
He ain't no baboon,
he's a orangutang. Name's Sue.
Well if it's a he, then how come its
 name is Sue?
That is a long story,
t got time to jack aroun now, on account of Raquel
 Welch is screechin an bitchin again, say, "You gotta take me someplace
 where I can get me some clothes!" Well, I don
s we can get thru, but as soon as I step on
 the other side, ain
t landed right on the side of a big ole road.
 "Oh my God!" Raquel Welch yell. "We

 I look up, an here come ole Sue, lopin down the hillside. He finally get
 down to us, an the three of us be standin there. Raquel Welch is movin the
 banana leaves up an down, tryin to cover hersef up.
 
 I axed. Cars are wizzin by, an even tho we
 must of been a odd-lookin sight, ain't nobody even payin us the slightest
 attention.
 
 she hollers. 

 
 I says.
 
 she screams, an so we started off down the Santa Monica
 Freeway.
 After a wile, up in the distance, we seen a big white sign up in some hills
 say 
 an Raquel Welch say, 
 She is
 keepin pretty busy tryin to cover hersef up—ever time a car come towards us,
 she put the banana leaves in front, an when a car come up from behin, she
 move em back there to cover her ass. In mixed traffic, it is quite a spectacular
 sight—look like one of them fan dancers or somethin.
 So we got off the freeway an went across a big field. 
 Raquel Welch say. 
 I ain't sayin nothin, but I look back, an ole Sue, he got a
 pained look on his face. He ain't never met Raquel Welch before, neither, an I
 think his feelins is hurt.
 Anyhow, we kep goin along an they still ain't nobody payin us much
 mind. Finally we come to a big ole busy street an Raquel Welch say,
 
 In this, I tend to see
 her point, an I am sort of glad I got on the creature suit so's nobody will
 recognize me—even if I am with Raquel Welch.
We come to a traffic light an when it turn green, the three of us walked
 on across the street, Raquel Welch doin her fan dance to beat the band an
 smilin at people in cars an stuff like she was on stage. 
 she hisses at me under her breath. 

 Some of the people waitin in their cars at the traffic light commence to
 honkin they horns and wavin, on account of they must of recognized Raquel
 Welch, an when we get across the street, a few cars turn our way an start to
 followin after us. By the time we get to Wilshire Boulevard we have attracted
 quite a sizable crowd; people come out of they houses an stores an all to
 follow us—look like the Pied Piper or somethin—an Raquel Welch's face is
 red as a beet.
 
ll never work in this town again!" she say to me, flashin a smile to
 the crowd, but her teeth is clenched tight.
 We gone on a bit further, an then she say, "Ah—finally—here is Rodeo
 Drive." I look over at a corner an, sure enough, there is a woman
Uggh—
 that's Popagallo. Nobody would be caught dead these days wearing a
 Popagallo dress.
There—Giani's—they got
 some nice things in there,
May I help you, madam?
I want to buy a dress,
What did you have in mind?
Anything, you fool—can't you see what's going on!
An is there somethin I can do for you gentlemen?
We is just with her,
What do you think about this one?
Oh, I'm not so sure, dear,
somehow it—it just isn't
 you.
Oh,
 wonderful! You look absolutely precious.
I'll take it,
Fine—how would
 you like to pay for it?
What do you mean?
Well, cash, check, credit card?
Look you bozo—can't you see I don't have anything like that with me?
 Where the hell do you think I'd put it?
Please, madam—don't let's be vulgar,
I am Raquel Welch,
I will send somebody around
 here to pay you later.
I am terribly sorry, lady,
but we don't do business that way.
But I'm Raquel Welch!
Don't you recognize me?
Listen lady,
half the people that come in here say they are
 Raquel Welch or Farrah Fawcett or Sophia Loren or somebody. You got any
 ID?
ID!
Where do you think I would keep ID?
No ID, no credit card, no money—no dress,
I'll prove who the hell I am,
Who else is got tits like these in this one
horse town!
Okay, your asses
 is all under arrest. Come along quietly an there won't be no trouble.
s, two carloads of cops come
 screamin up an this one cop come up to the salesman an say, "Well, what we
 got here?"
 "This one says she
 the salesman say. 
t pay for the dress. I don

 
 she shout.
 
 the cop say. 
t you go
 along with these two nice fellers here." He point to a couple of other cops.
 "Now," says the head cop, an he be lookin at me an Sue, "what

 
 I says.
 
re wearin that creature suit?" he axe.
 "Yup," I says.
 "An what bout him?" he say, pointin to Sue. "That

 
t no costume," I says. "He

 
 the cop say. 
ll tell you what. We got a feller down to
 the station who makes pitchers, too, an he would love to get a couple of shots
 of you clowns. So you jus come along too—an don

 Anyhow, Mister Tribble has got to come down an bail me out again. An
 Mister Felder showed up with a whole platoon of lawyers to git out Raquel
 Welch, who by this time is hysterical.
 
 she shriek back at me as they turnin her loose. 
t be able to find a job as a spear carrier in a nightmare!"
In this, she is probly correct. It look like my movie career is over.
 "That
ll call you for lunch sometime," Mister Felder
 says to me as he is leavin. "We

 
mon, Forrest," say Mister Tribble. "You and I have got other fish to
 fry."
 Back at the hotel, Mister Tribble an me an Sue is settin in our room havin
 a conference.
 "It is going to pose a problem, with Sue here," Mister Tribble says. "I
 mean, look how we had to sneak him up the stairs and everthin. It is very
 difficult to travel with an orangutan, we have to face that."
 I tole him how I felt bout Sue, bout how he saved my ass more than once
 in the jungle an all.
 "Well, I think I understand your feelings," he says. "And I
s going to have to behave himself, or we

 
 I say, an ole Sue be noddin an grinnin like a ape.
 Anyhow, nex day is the big chess match between me an the International
 Grand Master Ivan Petrokivitch, also known as Honest Ivan. Mister Tribble
 have taken me to a clothes store an rented me a tuxedo on account of this is to
 be a big fashionable deal, an a lot of muckity-mucks will be on han.
 Furthermore, the winner will get ten thousan dollars, an my haf of that ought
 to be enough to get me started in the srimp bidness, so I cannot afford to
 make no mistakes.
 Well, we get to the hall where the chess game is to take place an there is
 bout a thousan people millin aroun an already settin at the table is Honest
 Ivan, glarin at me like he's Muhammad Ali or somebody.
 Honest Ivan is a big ole Russian feller with a high forehead, jus like the
 Frankenstein monster, an long black curly hair such as you might see on a
 violin player. When I go up an set down, he grunt somethin at me an then
another feller say, 
 an that was it.
 Honest Ivan is got the white team an he get to make the first move, startin
 with somethin call The Ponziani Opening.
 I move nex, using The Reti Opening, an everthin is goin pretty smooth.
 Each of us make a couple of more moves, then Honest Ivan try somethin
 known as The Falkbeer Gambit, movin his knight aroun to see if he can take
 my rook.
 But I seed that comin, an set up somethin called The Noah's Ark Trap, an
 got his knight instead. Honest Ivan ain't lookin none too happy but he seem to
 take it in stride an employed The Tarrasch Threat to menace my bishop.
 I ain't havin none of that, tho, an I thowed up The Queen's Indian Defense
 an that force him to use The Schevenigen Variation, which lead me to utilize
 The Benoni Counter.
 Honest Ivan appear to be somewhat frustrated, an was twistin his fingers
 an bitin on his lower lip, an then he done tried a desperation move—The
 Fried Liver Attack—to which I applied Alekhine's Defense an stopped his ass
 cold.
 It look for a wile like it gonna be a stalemate, but Honest Ivan, he went an
 applied The Hoffman Maneuver an broke out! I look over at Mister Tribble,
 an he sort of smile at me, an he move his lips an mouth the word 
 an I
 knowed what he mean.
 You see, they was a couple of tricks Big Sam taught me in the jungle that
 was not in the book an now was the time to use them—namely, The Cookin
 Pot Variation of The Coconut Gambit, in which I use my queen as bait an
 sucker that bastid into riskin his knight to take her.
 Unfortunately, it didn't work. Honest Ivan must of seen that comin an he
 snapped up my queen an now my ass is in trouble! Nex I pull somethin called
 The Grass Hut Ploy, in which I stick my last rook out on a limb to fool him,
 but he wadn't fooled. Took my rook an my other bishop too, an was ready to
 finish me off with The Petroff Check, when I pulled out all the stops an set up
 The Pygmie Threat.
 Now the Pygmie Threat was one of Big Sam's specialties, an he had
taught it to me real good. It depends a lot on suprise an usin several other
 pieces as bait, but if a feller falls victim to The Pygmie Threat, he might as
 well hang up his jockstrap an go on home. I was hopin an prayin it woud
 work, cause if it didn't, I ain't got no more bright ideas an I'm just about done
 for already.
 Well, Honest Ivan, he grunt a couple of times an pick up his knight to
 move it to square eight, which meant that he would be suckered in by The
 Pygmie Threat an in two more moves I would have him in check an he would
 be powerless to do anythin about it!
 But Honest Ivan must of smelt somethin fishy, cause he moved that piece
 from square five to square eight an back again nine or ten times, never takin
 his han off it, which would have meant the move was final.
 The crowd was so quiet you coulda heard a pin drop, an I am so nervous
 an excited I am bout to bust. I look over an Mister Tribble is rollin his eyes
 up in the air like he's prayin an a feller what come with Honest Ivan is
 scowlin an lookin sour. Honest Ivan move the piece back to square eight two
 or three more times, but always he put it back on square five. Finally, it look
 like he gonna do somethin else, but then he lif up the piece one more time an
 have it hoverin above square eight an I be holdin my breath an the room is
 quiet as a tomb. Honest Ivan still be hoverin with the piece an my heart is
 beatin like a drum, an all of a sudden he look straight at me—an I don't know
 what happened, I guess I was so excited an all—but suddenly I cut a
 humongus baked-bean fart that sound like somebody is rippin a bedsheet in
 haf!
 Honest Ivan get a look of suprise on his face, an then he suddenly drop
 his chess piece an thowed up his hans an say, 
 an start fannin the air
 an coughin an holdin his nose. Folks standin aroun us begun to move back an
 was mumblin an takin out they handkerchiefs an all, an I am so red in the
 face I look like a tomato.
 But when it all settle down again, I look at the chessboard an damn if
 Honest Ivan ain't lef his piece right on square eight. So I reached out an snap
 it up with my knight, an then I grapped two of his pawns an his queen an
 finally his king—checkmate! I done won the match an the five thousan
 dollars! The Pygmie Threat done come thru again.
All the wile, Honest Ivan be makin loud gestures an protestin an all an
 him an the feller that come with him immediately file a formal complaint
 against me.
 The guy in charge of the tournament be thumbin thru his rule book till he
 come to where it say, 

 Mister Tribble step up an say, 
t think you can prove that my
 man did what he did knowingly. It was a sort of involuntary thing."
 Then the tournament director thumb thru his book some more, an come to
 where it say, "No player shall behave in a manner that is rude or offensive to
 his opponent."
 "Listen," Mister Tribble say, "haven
t mean anything by it. He

 
t know," the tournament director say, "on the face of it, I think I

 
t you give him another chance at least?"
 Mister Tribble axed. The tournament director scratched his chin for a
 minute. "Well, perhaps," he say, "but he is gonna have to contain hissef
 because we cannot tolerate this sort of thing here, you know?"
 An so it was beginnin to look like I might be allowed to finish the game,
 but all of a sudden they is a big commotion at one end of the room, an ladies
 are screaming an shrieking an all an then I look up an here come ole Sue,
 swingin towards me on a chandelier.
 Jus as the chandelier got overhead Sue let go an dropped right on top of
 the chessboard, scatterin all the pieces in a dozen directions. Honest Ivan fell
 over backwards across a chair an on the way down ripped haf the dress off a
 fat lady that looked like a advertisement for a jewelry store. She commenced
 to flailin an hollerin an smacked the tournament director in the nose an Sue
 was jumpin up an down an chatterin an everbody is in a panic, stompin an
 stumblin an shoutin to call the police.
 Mister Tribble grapped me by the arm an say, "Let

This I coud not deny.
 Well, we get on back to the hotel, an Mister Tribble say we got to have
 another conference.
 
 he say, 

 I am noddin an ole Sue is lookin pretty sorrowful too.
 
ll tell you what I
re a good boy, Forrest, and I
 can

 Mister Tribble hand me a envelope an when I look inside it, there is a
 bunch of hundrit dollar bills. 
 he say.
 Mister Tribble phone for a taxicab an got us to the railroad station. He has
 also arranged for Sue to ride in the baggage car in a crate, and says I can go
 back there an visit with him an take him food an water when I want. They
 brung out the crate an Sue got on inside it an they took him off.
 
 Mister Tribble say, an he shake my han.
 
s my card—so stay in touch and let me know how it

 I took the card an shook his han again an was sorry to be leavin cause
 Mister Tribble was a very nice man, an I had let him down. I was settin in my
 seat on the train, lookin out the winder, an Mister Tribble was still standin on
 the platform. Jus as the train pulled out, he raised up his han at me an waved
 goodbye.
 So off I went again, an for a long time that night my head was full of
 dreams—of going back home again, of my mama, of po ole Bubba an of the
 srimp bidness an, of course, of Jenny Curran too. More than anythin in the
 world, I wished I were not such a loony tune.
 
24
 WELL, FINALLY, I DONE COME HOME AGAIN.
 The train got into the Mobile station bout three o'clock in the mornin an
 they took off ole Sue in his crate an lef us standin on the platform. Ain't
 nobody else aroun cept some feller sweepin the floor an a guy snoozin on a
 bench in the depot, so Sue an me walked on downtown an finally foun a
 place to sleep in a abandoned buildin.
 Nex mornin, I got Sue some bananas down by the wharf an found a little
 lunch counter where I bought a great big breakfast with grits an eggs an
 bacon an pancakes an all, an then I figgered I had to do somethin to get us
 squared away, so I begun to walk out to where the Little Sisters of the Poor
 home was located. On the way, we passed by where our ole house used to be,
 an it wadn't nothin lef but a field of weeds an some burnt up wood. It was a
 very strange feelin, seein that, an so we kep on goin.
 When I got to the po house, I tole Sue to wait in the yard so as not to
 startle them sisters none, an I went in an axed about my mama.
 The head sister, she was real nice, an she say she don't know where
 Mama is, cept she went off with the protestant, but that I might try axin aroun
 in the park cause mama use to go an set there in the afternoons with some
 other ladies. So I got Sue an we gone on over there.
 They was some ladies settin on the benches an I went up an tole one of
 them who I was, an she looked at ole Sue, an say, 

 But then she say she has heard that Mama was workin as a pants presser
 in a dry cleanin store on the other side of town, an so me an Sue went over
 there an sho enough, there is po ole Mama, sweatin over a pair of pants in the
 laundry.
 When she seen me, Mama drop everthin an thowed hersef into my arms.
 She is cryin an twistin her hans an snifflin just like I remembered. Good ole
 Mama.

 she say. 
t a day
 gone by I didn
 That didn't suprise me none tho, an I axed her bout the
 protestant.
 
 Mama say. 
t a month went by before he chucked me for a
 sixteen-year-ole girl—an him bein nearly sixty. Let me tell you, Forrest,
 protestants ain

 Just then a loud voice come from inside the dry cleanin stow, say,
 
s pants?"
 "Oh my God!" Mama shout, an run back inside. All of a sudden a big
 column of black smoke blowed out thru the winder an people inside is bawlin
 an hollerin an cussin an nex thing I knowed, Mama is bein hauled out of the
 stow by a big old ugly bald-headed guy that is shoutin an manhandlin her.
 "Git out! Git out!" he holler. "This is the last straw! You done burnt up
 your last pair of pants!"
 Mama be cryin an weepin an I stepped up to the feller an say, "I think
 you better be takin your hans off my mama."
 "Who the hell is you?" he axed.
 "Forrest Gump," I says back, an he say, "Well you git your ass outta here
 too, an take your mama with you, cause she don

 
 I says, an he say back,
 

 So I showed him.
 First, I grapped him an picked him up in the air. Then I carried him into
 where they was washin all these clothes in a big ole oversize laundry machine
 they use for quilts and rugs, an I open the top an stuff him in an close the lid
 shut an turned the dial to 
 Last I seen of him, his ass were headed for
 the 
 cycle.
 Mama is bawlin an dawbin at her eyes with a handkerchief an say, 


t worry none, Mama," I tole her, "everthin gonna be okay, cause I
 have got a plan."
 "How you gonna have a plan, Forrest?" she say. "You is a idiot. How is a
 po idiot gonna have a plan?"
 "Jus wait an see," I says. Anyhow, I am glad to have got off on the right
 foot my first day home.
 We got outta there, an started walkin towards the roomin house where
 Mama stayin. I had done introduced her to Sue an she say she was pleased
 that at least I have got some kinda friend—even if he is a ape.
 Anyhow, Mama an me ate supper at the roomin house an she got Sue a
 orange from the kitchen, an afterwards, me an Sue went down to the bus
 station an got the bus to Bayou La Batre, where Bubba
t feel so bad.
 Anyhow, when the bus get to Bayou La Batre we didn
s place. It
clock at night an I knocked on the door
 an after a wile an ole feller appears an axed what I want. I tole him who I was
 an that I knowed Bubba from playin football an from the Army, an he got
 kinda nervous but he invited me inside. I had tole ole Sue to stay out in the
 yard an kinda keep outta sight since they probly hasn
s daddy, an he got me a glass of iced tea an started
 axin me a lot of questions. Wanted to know bout Bubba, bout how he got kilt
 an all, an I tole him the best I could.
 Finally, he say, "There

 
 I says, but he say, 
t what I mean. What
 I mean is, why? Why was we over there?"
 I thought for a minute, an say, "Well, we was tryin to do the right thing, I
guess. We was jus doin what we was tole."
 An he say, "Well, do you think it was worth it? What we did? All them
 boys gettin kilt that way?"
 An I says, "Look, I am jus a idiot, see. But if you want my real opinion, I
 think it was a bunch of shit."
 Bubba
That's what I figgered,
s
 plan to open up a little srimp bidness, an how I had met the ole gook when I
 was in the hospital an he showed me how to grow srimp, an he was gettin real
 interested an axin a lot of questions, when all of a sudden they is a
 tremendous squawkin set up out in the yard.
 "Somethin
 Bubba's daddy shout, an he went an got
 a gun from behin the door an go out on the porch.
 
 I says, an I tole him bout Sue bein
 there, cept we don't see hide nor hair of him.
 Bubba's daddy go back in the house an get a flashlight an shine it aroun
 in the yard. He shine it under a big tree an down at the bottom is a goat—big
 ole billy goat, standin there pawin the groun. He shine it up in the tree an
 there is po Sue, settin on a limb, scared haf to death.
 
ll do it ever time," say Bubba
Git on away from
 there!
What is that thing?
s daddy axed.
 "He is a orangutang," I says.
 "Looks kinda like a gorilla, don

 
 I says, 
t."
 Anyway, Bubba
s daddy done fixed a big
 breakfast with homemade sausage an fresh yard eggs an biscuits an molasses,
 an then he take me an Sue in a little boat an pole us down the Bayou. It is
 calm an they is a bit of mist on the water. Ever once in a wile a big ole bird
 would take off outta the marsh.
 "Now," say Bubba
here is where the salt tide comes in,
There's some pretty big ponds up
 in there, an if I was gonna do what you plannin to do, that's where I'd do it.
Now you see there,
that is a little
 piece of high groun an you can jus see the roof of a little shack in there.
 
t nobody own it. You wanted, you could fix it up a little an
 stay there. Last time I looked, he had a couple of ole rowboats pulled up on
 the bank. Probly ain
d probly
 float."
 He pole us in further, an say, "Ole Tom used to have some duckboards
 runnin thru the marsh down to the ponds. Used to fish an shoot ducks in
 there. You could probly fix em up. It

 Well, let me tell you, it looked ideal. Bubba's daddy say they get seed
 srimp up in them slews an bayous all the time, an it wouldn't be no trouble to
 net a bunch of em to start off the bidness with. Another thing he say is that in
 his experience, a srimp will eat cottonseed meal, which is good on account of
 it is cheap.
 The main thing we got to do is block off them ponds with mesh nets an
 get the little cabin fixed up to live in an get some supplies like peanut butter
 an jelly an bread an all that kind of shit. Then we be ready to start growin our
 srimp.
 So we got started that very day. Bubba's daddy took me back to the house
 an we gone into town an begun buyin supplies. He say we can use his boat till
we get ours fixed up, an that night me an Sue stayed in the little fishin shack
 for the first time. It rained some an the roof leaked like crazy, but I didn't
 mind. Nex mornin I jus went out an fixed it up.
 It took almost a month to get things goin—makin the shack nice an fixin
 up the rowboats an the duckboards in the marsh an layin the mesh nets aroun
 one of them ponds. Finally the day come when we is ready to put in some
 srimp. I have bought a srimp net an me an Sue went on out in the rowboat an
 dragged it aroun for most of the day. By that night, we had probly fifty
 pounds of srimp in the bait well an we rowed up an dumped em into the
 pond. They be crackin an swimmin aroun an dancin on top of the water. My,
 my, it was a lovely site.
 Nex mornin we got us five hundrit pounds of cottonseed meal an thowed
 a hundrit pounds of it in the pond for the srimp to eat an the nex afternoon we
 set about nettin-in another pond. We done that all summer an all fall an all
 winter an all spring an by that time we has got four ponds operatin an
 everthin is lookin rosy. At night I would set out on the porch of the shack an
 play my harmonica an on Saturday night I would go into town an buy a six
pack of beer an me an Sue would get drunk. I finally feel like I belong
 someplace, an am doin a honest day's work, an I figger that when we get the
 first srimp harvested an sold, maybe then it will be all right to try to find
 Jenny again, an see if she is still mad at me.
25
 IT WAS A VERY NICE DAY IN JUNE WHEN WE FIGGERED IT WAS
 time to start our first srimp harvest. Me an Sue got up with the sun an went
 down to the pond an dragged a net acrost it till it got stuck on somethin. Sue
 tried to pull it loose first, then I tried, then we tried together till we finally
 figgered out the net wadn't stuck—it was jus so full of srimp we couldn't
 move it!
 By that evenin we had pulled in about three hundrit pouns of srimp, an
 we spent the night sortin em out in various sizes. Nex mornin we put the
 srimp in baskets an took em down to our little rowboat. They weighed so
 much we damn near tumped over on the way up to Bayou La Batre.
 They was a seafood packin house there an Sue an me hauled the srimp
 from the dock to the weighin room. After everthin is toted up, we got ourselfs
 a check for eight hundrit, sixty-five dollars! It is about the first honest money
 I ever made since I played harmonica for The Cracked Eggs.
 Ever day for nearly two weeks Sue an me harvested srimp an brought em
 in to the packin house. When it was finally over, we had made a total of nine
 thousand, seven hundrit dollars an twenty-six cents. The srimp bidness was a
 success!
 Well, let me tell you—it were a happy occasion. We took up a bushel
 basket of srimp to Bubba's daddy an he was real happy an say he is proud of
 us an that he wished Bubba were there too. Then me an Sue caught the bus up
 to Mobile to celebrate. First thing I done was gone to see my mama at the
 roomin house, an when I tole her about the money an all, sure enough, she be
 cloudin up again. 
 she say, 

 Anyhow, I tole Mama about my plan, which was that nex year we was
 gonna have three times as many srimp ponds, an that we needed somebody to
 watch over the money an look after our expenses an all, an I axed if she
 would do that.
 
 Mama
say. 
t nothin goin on down there. What am I gonna do with mysef?"
 "Count money," I says.
 After that, me an Sue went downtown an got ourselfs a big meal. I gone
 down to the docks an bought Sue a big bunch of bananas, an then went an got
 mysef the biggest steak dinner I could find, with mashed potatoes an green
 peas an everthin. Then I decided to go drink me a beer someplace an jus as I
 am walkin by this dark ole saloon near the waterfront, I hear all this loud
 cussin an shoutin an even after all these years, I knowed that voice. I stuck
 my head in the door, an sure enough, it were ole Curtis from the University!
 Curtis were very happy to see me, callin me a asshole an a cocksucker an
 a motherfucker an everthin else nice he could think of. As it turns out, Curtis
 had gone on to play pro football with the Washington Redskins after he lef
 the University, an then he done got put on waivers after bitin the team
 owner
 coach say ain
t got no bidness callin
 one now. But actually, Curtis say, it wadn
How'd you like to come work for me?
yes.
s daddy. That year
 we made nearly thirty thousan dollars an are gettin bigger all the time. Things
 couldn
t bawlin hardly at all, an one day we
 even seen Curtis smile once—altho he stopped an started cussin again soon
 as he saw us watchin. For me, tho, it ain
s mama
Forrest Gump! I jus can't believe it.
 C'mon in!
d been doin
 an everthin, an finally I axed about Jenny.
 "Oh, I really don
 Mrs. Curran say. 

 
 I axed.
 
t you know, Forrest?" she say. "Jenny got married."
 "Married?" I say.
 "It was a couple of years ago. She

 
m," I says, "not really. Maybe jus tell her I wish her good luck an
 all."
 "I sure will," Mrs. Curran say, "an I

I dunno, I reckon I ought to of been ready for that news, but I wadn't.
 I could feel my heart poundin, an my hans got cold an damp an all I coud
 think of was goin someplace an curlin up into a ball the way I had that time
 after Bubba got kilt, an so that's what I did. I foun some shrubs in back of
 somebody's yard an I crawled under there an jus got mysef into a ball. I think
 I even commenced to suck my thumb, which I ain't done in a long wile since
 my mama always said it was a sure sign that somebody's a idiot, unless they
 are a baby. Anyhow, I don't know how long I stayed there. It was most of a
 day an a haf I guess.
 I didn't feel no blame for Jenny, she done what she had to. After all, I am
 a idiot, an wile a lot of people say they is married to idiots, they couldn't
 never imagine what would be in store if they ever married a real one. Mostly,
 I guess, I am jus feelin sorry for mysef, because somehow I had actually got
 to where I believed that Jenny an me would be together someday. An so when
 I learnt from her mama that she is married, it was like a part of me has died
 an will never be again, for gettin married is not like runnin away. Gettin
 married is a very serious deal. Sometime durin the night I cried, but it did not
 hep much.
 It was later that afternoon when I crawled out of the shrubs an gone on
 back to Bayou La Batre. I didn't tell nobody what had happened, cause I
 figgered it wouldn't of done no good. They was some work I needed to do
 aroun the ponds, mendin nets an such, an I went on out by mysef an done it.
 By the time I get finished it is dark, an I done made a decision—I am gonna
 thow mysef into the srimp bidness an work my ass off. It is all I can do.
 An so I did.
 That year we made seventy-five thousan dollars before expenses an the
 bidness is gettin so big I got to hire more people to hep me run it. One person
 I get is ole Snake, the quarterback from the University. He is not too happy
 with his present job with the tinymight football team an so I put him to work
 with Curtis in charge of dredgin an spillway duties. Then I find out that
 Coach Fellers from the highschool is done retired an so I give him a job,
along with his two goons who has also retired, workin on boats an docks.
 Pretty soon the newspapers get wind of what is goin on an send a reporter
 down to interview me for a sort of 
 story. It appears
 the nex Sunday, with a photo of me an Mama an Sue, an the headline say,
 

 Anyhow, not too long after that, Mama say to me that we need to get
 somebody to hep her with the bookkeepin part of the bidness an give some
 kind of advice on financial things on account of we is makin so much money.
 I done thought bout it a wile, an then I decided to get in touch with Mister
 Tribble, cause he had made a bunch of money in bidness before he retired.
 He was delighted I had called, he say, an will be on the nex plane down.
 A week after he gets here, Mister Tribble say we got to set down an talk.
 
 he say, 

 I axed him what bout, an he say this: 

 An so that's what we did.
 Mister Tribble took charge of all that, an we formed a couple of
 corporations. One was 
s Shellfish Company." Another was called
 "Sue
 an another was 
s Crawfish Étouffée, Ltd."
 Well, the quarter of a million become haf a million an the year followin
 that, a million, an so on, till after four more years we done become a five
 million dollar a year bidness. We got nearly three hundred employees now,
 includin The Turd an The Vegetable, whose rasslin days were over, an we got
 them loadin crates at the warehouse. We tried like hell to find po Dan, but he
 done vanished without a trace. We did find ole Mike, the rasslin promoter, an
 put him in charge of public relations an advertisin. At Mister Tribble
You ain't never had crabs till you try Sue's!
s étouffée operation. We also hired Colonel Gooch, who got
 drummed out of the Army after my Medal of Honor tour. Mister Tribble put
 him in charge of "covert activities."
 Mama has gone an had us a big ole house built cause she say it ain
Mister Gump,
You're an absolute natural,
A former star football player for Bear
 Bryant, a war hero, a famous astronaut and the confidant of Presidents—what
 more can you ask?!
Look,
I am just a idiot. I don't know nothin bout politics.
Then you will fit in perfectly!
Listen, we need
 good men like you. Salt of the earth, I tell you! Salt of the earth!
s ideas are usually what get me into
 trouble. But sure enough, when I tole my mama, she get all teary-eyed an
 proud an say it would be the answer to all her dreams to see her boy be a
 United States Senator.
Well, the day come when we is to announce my candidacy. Mister
 Claxton an them others hired the auditorium up in Mobile an hauled me out
 on the stage in front of a crowd that paid fifty cents apiece to come listen to
 my shit. They begin with a lot of long-winded speeches an then it come my
 turn.
 "My feller Americans," I begin. Mister Claxton an the others have writ
 me a speech to give an later they will be questions from the audience. TV
 cameras are rollin an flashbulbs are poppin an reporters are scribblin in their
 notebooks. I read the whole speech, which ain
t make
 much sense—but what do I know? I am jus a idiot.
 When I am finished talkin, a lady from the newspaper stand up an look at
 her notepad.
 "We are currently on the brink of nuclear disaster," she say, "the
 economy is in ruins, our nation is reviled throughout the world, lawlessness
 prevails in our cities, people starve of hunger every day, religion is gone from
 our homes, greed and avarice is rampant everywhere, our farmers are going
 broke, foreigners are invading our country and taking our jobs, our unions are
 corrupt, babies are dying in the ghettos, taxes are unfair, our schools are in
 chaos and famine, pestilence and war hang over us like a cloud—in view of
 all this, Mister Gump," she axe, "what, in your mind, is the most pressing
 issue of the moment?" The place was so quiet you coulda heard a pin drop.
 "I got to pee," I says.
 At this, the crowd went wile! People begun hollerin an cheerin an shoutin
 an wavin they hands in the air. From the back of the room somebody started
 chantin an pretty soon the whole auditorium was doin it.
 "WE GOT TO PEE! WE GOT TO PEE! WE GOT TO PEE!" they was
 yellin.
 My mama had been settin there behind me on the stage an she got up an
 come drug me away from the speaker
You ought to be ashamed of yoursef,
talkin like that in
 public.
No, no!
It's perfect! They love it. This will be our
campaign slogan!
What will?
We Got to Pee!
Just listen to them! No one has
 ever had such a rapport with the common people!
t buyin none of it. "Whoever heard of anybody usin a
 campaign slogan like that!" she says. "It

 
s a symbol," Mister Claxton says. "Just think, we
s a stroke of genius, that

 
 Mama axed suspiciously. 

 
 Mister Claxton says, 

 An so it seemed. The campaign was goin along pretty good an 
 had become the byword of the day. People shouted it on the street an
 from cars an busses. Television commentators an newspaper columnists spent
 a lot of time trying to tell folks what it meant. Preachers yelled it from their
 pulpits an children chanted it in school. It was beginnin to look like I was a
 shoo-in for the election, an, in fact, the candidate runnin against me, he got so
 desperate he made up his own slogan, 
 an plastered it all
 over the state.
 Then it all fell apart, jus like I was afraid it would.
 The 
 deal done come to the attention of the national media
 an pretty soon the Washington Post an the New Yawk Times sent down their
 investigating reporters to look into the matter. They axed me a lot of
 questions an was real nice an friendly-sounding, but then they went back an
 begun to dig up my past. One day the stories broke on the front page of ever
 newspaper in the country. 
 say
 the headlines.
First, they write that I done flunked out of the University my first year.
 Then they dug up that shit about me an Jenny when the cops hauled me in
 from the movie theater. Next they drag out the photograph of me showin my
 ass to President Johnson in the Rose Garden. They axed aroun about my days
 in Boston with The Cracked Eggs an quote people sayin that I done smoked
 marijuana an also mention 
 at Harvard University.
 Worst—they done find out about the criminal charges I got for thowin
 my medal at the U.S. Capitol an that I been sentenced by a judge to a loony
 asylum. Also, they knew all about my rasslin career, too, an that I was called
 The Dunce. They even ran a photo of me being tied up by The Professor.
 Finally, they mention several 
 sayin I was involved in a
 

 That did it. Mister Claxton come rushin into campaign headquarters
 screamin, 
 an shit like that.
 But it was over. I had no choice cept to withdraw from the race, an the next
 day Mama an me an Mister Tribble set down for a talk.
 
 Mister Tribble say, 

 I knowed he was right. An besides, there is other things that been naggin
 at my mind for a long time now, though I ain't said nothin about them before.
 When the srimp bidness first started up, I kind of enjoyed the work, gettin
 up at dawn an goin down to the ponds an puttin up the nets an then harvestin
 the srimp an all, an me an Sue settin at night on the porch of the fishin shack
 playin the harmonica, an gettin a six-pack of beer on Saturday an gettin
 drunk.
 Now it ain't nothing like that. I got to go to all sorts of dinner parties
 where people servin a lot of mysterious-lookin food an the ladies wearin big
 ole earrings an shit. All day long the phone don't never stop ringin an people
 be wantin to axe me bout everthin under the sun. In the Senate, it would have
 jus been worse. Now I ain't got no time to mysef as it is, an somehow, things
 are slippin past me.
 Furthermore, I look in the mirror now an I got wrinkles on my face, an
 my hair is turnin gray at the edges an I ain't got as much energy as I used to. I
know things are movin along with the bidness, but mysef, I feel like I'm jus
 spinnin in place. I'm wonderin jus why am I doin all this for? A long time
 ago, me an Bubba had a plan, which has now gone beyon our wildest dreams,
 but so what? It ain't haf as much fun as the time I played against them
 Nebraska corn shucker jackoffs in the Orange Bowl, or took a ride on my
 harmonica up at Boston with The Cracked Eggs, or, for that matter, watched
 
 with ole President Johnson.
 An I spose Jenny Curran has somethin to do with it, too, but since ain't
 nobody can do nothin bout that, I might as well forget it.
 Anyhow, I realize I got to get away. Mama be weepin an bawlin an
 daubbin at her eyes with the handkerchief like I figgered she woud, but
 Mister Tribble understan completely.
 
t we jus tell everbody you are taking a long vacation, Forrest,"
 he say. "An of course your share of the bidness will be here whenever you
 want it."
 So that
s daddy an all
 the rest.
 Then I gone to the shack an foun ole Sue.
 "What you gonna do?" I axed.
 Sue grapped holt of my han an then he picked up my bag an carried it out
 the door. We got in the little rowboat an paddled up to Bayou La Batre an
 caught the bus to Mobile. A lady in the ticket office there say, "Where you
 want to go?" an I shrugged my shoulders, so she say, "Why don

 So that's what we did.
26
 WE GOT OFF THE BUS AT SAVANNAH, WHERE IT WAS RAININ to
 beat the band. Sue an me went in the depot an I got a cup of coffee an took it
 out under the eaves an tried to figger out what we gonna do nex.
 I ain't got no plan, really, so after I finish my coffee I took out my
 harmonica an begun to play. I played a couple of songs, an lo an behole, a
 feller that was walkin by, he thowed a quarter in my coffee cup. I played a
 couple of more songs, an after a wile the coffee cup is bout haf full of
 change.
 It done quit rainin so Sue an me walked on off an in a little bit come to a
 park in the middle of town. I set down on a bench an played some more an
 sure enough, people begun to drop quarters an dimes an nickels in the coffee
 cup. Then ole Sue, he caught on, an when folks would pass by, he'd take the
 coffee cup an go up to them with it. At the end of the day, I'd got nearly five
 dollars.
 We slep in the park that night on a bench an it was a fine, clear night an
 the stars an moon was out. In the mornin we got some breakfast an I begun to
 play the harmonica again as folks started showin up for work. We made eight
 bucks that day an nine the nex, an by the end of the week we had done pretty
 good, considerin. After the weekend, I foun a little music shop an went in
 there to see if I could find another harmonica in the key of G on account of
 playing in C all the time was gettin monotonous. Over in a corner I seen that
 the feller had a used keyboard for sale. It look pretty much like the one ole
 George used to play with The Cracked Eggs an that he had taught me a few
 chords on.
 I axed how much he wanted for it, an the feller say two hundrit dollars,
 but he will make me a deal. So I bought the keyboard an the feller even
 rigged up a stand on it so's I could play my harmonica too. It definately
 improved our popularity with the people. By the end of the nex week we was
 makin almost ten bucks a day, so I gone on back to the music shop an bought
 a set of used drums. After a few days practice, I got to where I could play
 them drums pretty good too. I chucked out the ole Styrofoam coffee cup an
got a nice tin cup for Sue to pass aroun an we was doin pretty good for
 ourselfs. I was playin everthing from 
 to 
 and I had also foun a roomin house
 that let ole Sue stay there, an served breakfast an supper too.
 One morning Sue an me is going to the park when it started to rain again.
 One thing about Savannah—it rains buckets ever other day there, or so it
 seems. We was walking down the street in front of a office building when
 suddenly I seen something that looked vaguely familiar.
 There is a man in a business suit standing on the sidewalk with a unbrella
 an he is standin right in front of a big plastic garbage bag. Somebody is under
 the garbage bag, keepin out of the rain, an all you can see is a pair of hands
 reachin out from under the bag, shinin the shoes of the man in the suit. I gone
 acrost the street and looked closer, an lo and behol, I can just make out the
 little wheels of one of them dolly-wagons stickin out from under the bag too.
 I was so happy I could of just about bust, an I went up an thowed the garbage
 bag off an sure enough, it was ole Dan hissef, shinin shoes for a livin!
 
 Dan say, 
m gettin soakin wet out
 here." Then he saw Sue. "So you finally got married, huh?" Dan say.
 "It
 I tole him. 

 
 say the feller in the suit.
 
 Dan says, 
 The feller, he
 walked away.
 
 I axed.
 
m doing?" he say. "I

 
 I axed.
 
 says he, 
m a real Communist—
 Marx, Lennin, Trotsky—all that bullshit."
 "Then what you shinin shoes for?" I say.
 "To shame the imperialist lackeys," he answers. "The way I got it figured,
 nobody with shined shoes is worth a shit, so the more shoes I shine, the more
 I


 I says, an then Dan thowed down his rag an wheel
 himself back under the awnin to git outta the rain.
 
t no damned Communist," he say. "They
 wouldn

 
 I says. 

 
 he axed.
 
 I says.
 
 Dan say, 

 Well, after that, Dan an Sue an me kinda teamed up. Dan didn't want to
 stay in the boardin house, so he slep outside at night under his garbage bag.
 
 was how he put it. He tole bout what he'd been doin since
 he left Indianapolis. First, he'd lost all the money from the rasslin business at
 the dog track an what was lef he drank up. Then he got a job at a auto shop
 working under cars cause it was easy for him with the little dolly-wagon an
 all, but he said he got tired of oil an grease bein dripped on him all the time.
 
 he say, 
t never
 been no greaseball."
 Nex, he gone back to Washington where they
undignified.
You think them tits of hers are real?
s shoes in the crowd. One day a guy come from the newspaper an took
 our pitchers an ran them on the front page.
 "Derelicts Loitering in Public Park," says the caption.
 One afternoon I
Ridin on the City of New Orleans,
Oh, Forrest, I knew it was you when I
 heard the harmonica. Nobody plays the harmonica like you do.
What you doin here?
We live here now,
Donald is assistant sales manager with
 some people make roofin tiles. We been here bout three years now.
s the boy would laugh.
 "How come you playin in a one-man band?" Jenny axed. "Mama wrote
 me you had started a great big ole srimp bidness down at Bayou La Batre an
 was a millionaire."
 "It
 I says.

t get in trouble again, did you, Forrest?" she say.
 "Nope, not this time," I says. "How bout you? You doin okay?"
 "Oh, I reckon I am," she say. "I spose I got what I wanted."
 "That your little boy?" I axed.
 "Yep," she say, "ain

 

 

 
 I say. 

 
 she say sort of quietly. 
s haf yours."
 "Hafwhat!"
 "He

 

 
 I looked over an there he was, gigglin an
 clappin cause Sue was now doin han-stands.
 
 Jenny say, 
t want to say anything, I don
The Dunce
d turn out."
 "You mean, was he gonna be a idiot?"
 "Yeah, sort of," she say. "But look, Forrest, can
t no
 idiot at all! He
A
 last year. Can you believe it!"
 "You sure he
 I axed.
 
t no question of it," she say. "He wants to be a football player when
 he grows up—or a astronaut."
 I look over at the little feller again an he is a strong, fine-lookin boy. His
 eyes is clear an he don
Well,
now what about, ah, your...
Donald?
Well, he don't know bout you. You see, I met
 him just after I left Indianapolis. An I was bout to start showin an all, an I
 didn't know what to do. He's a nice, kind man. He takes good care of me an
 little Forrest. We got us a house an two cars an ever Saturday he takes us
 someplace like the beach or out in the country. We go to church on Sunday,
 an Donald is savin up to send little Forrest to college an all.
Coud I see him—I mean, jus for a minute or two?
Sure,
Forrest,
I want you to meet another Forrest. He's a ole friend
 of mine—an he is who you are named after.
What a funny monkey
 you got.
That is a orangutang,
His name is Sue.
How come you call him Sue, if it's a he?
t have no idiot for a son. "Your mama say
 you want to grow up to be a football player, or a astronaut," I says.
 "I sure would," he say. "You know anything about football or
 astronauts?"
 "Yep," I say, "a little bit, but maybe you ought to axe your daddy bout
 that. I

 Then he give me a hug. It weren't a big hug, but it was enough. 
 he say, an jump down from the bench, an ole Sue,
 he done organized a game where little Forrest could thow a coin into the tin
 cup an Sue would catch it in the air.
 Jenny come over an set nex to me an sighed, an she pat me on the leg.
 
t believe it sometimes," she say. "We

 The sun is shinin thru the trees, right on Jenny's face, an they might of
 been a tear in her eyes, but it never come, an yet they is somethin there, a
heartbeat maybe, but I really couldn't say what it was, even tho I knowed it
 was there.
 
t believe it, that
 she say, an then she lean over an kiss me
 on the forehead.
 
s that?" I axed.
 "Idiots," Jenny says, an her lips is tremblin. "Who ain
 An then
 she is gone. She got up an fetched little Forrest an took him by the han an
 they walked on off.
 Sue come over an set down in front of me an drawed a tic-tac-toe thing in
 the dirt at my feet. I put a X to the upper right corner, an Sue put a O in the
 middle, an I knowed right then an there ain't nobody gonna win.
 Well, after that, I done a couple of things. First, I called Mister Tribble an
 tole him that anything I got comin in the srimp bidness, to give ten percent of
 my share to my mama an ten percent to Bubba's daddy, an the rest, send it all
 to Jenny for little Forrest.
 After supper, I set up all night thinkin, altho that is not somethin I am
 sposed to be particularly good at. But what I was thinkin was this: here I have
 done foun Jenny again after all this time. An she have got our son, an maybe,
 somehow, we can fix things up.
 But the more I think about this, the more I finally understan it cannot
 work. And also, I cannot rightly blame it on my bein a idiot—tho that would
 be nice. Nope, it is jus one of them things. Jus the way it is sometimes, an
 besides, when all is said an done, I figger the little boy be better off with
 Jenny an her husband to give him a good home an raise him right so's he
 won't have no peabrain for a daddy.
 Well, a few days later, I gone on off with ole Sue an Dan. We went to
 Charleston an then Richmond an then Atlanta an then Chattanooga an then
 Memphis an then Nashville an finally down to New Orleans.
 Now they don't give a shit what you do in New Orleans, an the three of us
 is havin the time of our lifes, playin ever day in Jackson Square an watchin
 the other fruitcakes do they thing.
I done bought a bicycle with two little sidecars for Sue an Dan to ride in,
 an ever Sunday we peddle down to the river an set on the bank an go
 catfishin. Jenny writes me once ever month or so, an sends me pictures of
 Little Forrest. Last one I got showed him dressed up in a tinymight football
 suit. They is a girl here that works as a waitress in one of the strip joints an
 ever once in a wile we get together an ass aroun. Wanda is her name. A lot of
 times, me an ole Sue an Dan jus cruise aroun the French Quarter an see the
 sights, an believe me, they is some odd-lookin people there besides us—look
 like they might be lef over from the Russian Revolution or somethin.
 A guy from the local newspaper come by one day an say he want to do a
 story on me, cause I am the 
t
 print nothin like that cause nobody would
t you think I ain
m forty, fifty, sixty
 years ole, you know?
 Well, so what? I may be a idiot, but most of the time, anyway, I tried to
 do the right thing—an dreams is jus dreams, ain
