s Stone


CHAPTER ONE

THE BOY WHO LIVED

Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to say
that they were perfectly normal, thank you very much. They were the last
people you
t hold with such nonsense.

Mr. Dursley was the director of a firm called Grunnings, which made
drills. He was a big, beefy man with hardly any neck, although he did
have a very large mustache. Mrs. Dursley was thin and blonde and had
nearly twice the usual amount of neck, which came in very useful as she
spent so much of her time craning over garden fences, spying on the
neighbors. The Dursleys had a small son called Dudley and in their
opinion there was no finer boy anywhere.

The Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also had a secret, and
their greatest fear was that somebody would discover it. They didn
s sister, but they hadn
t have a sister, because her
sister and her good-for-nothing husband were as unDursleyish as it was
possible to be. The Dursleys shuddered to think what the neighbors would
say if the Potters arrived in the street. The Dursleys knew that the
Potters had a small son, too, but they had never even seen him. This boy
was another good reason for keeping the Potters away; they didn
Little tyke,
s drive.

It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the first sign of
something peculiar -- a cat reading a map. For a second, Mr. Dursley
didn
t a map in sight. What could he have been thinking
of? It must have been a trick of the light. Mr. Dursley blinked and
stared at the cat. It stared back. As Mr. Dursley drove around the
corner and up the road, he watched the cat in his mirror. It was now
reading the sign that said Privet Drive -- no, looking at the sign; cats
couldn
t help
noticing that there seemed to be a lot of strangely dressed people
about. People in cloaks. Mr. Dursley couldn
t young at all; why, that man
had to be older than he was, and wearing an emerald-green cloak! The
nerve of him! But then it struck Mr. Dursley that this was probably some
silly stunt -- these people were obviously collecting for something...
yes, that would be it. The traffic moved on and a few minutes later, Mr.
Dursley arrived in the Grunnings parking lot, his mind back on drills.

Mr. Dursley always sat with his back to the window in his office on the
ninth floor. If he hadn
t see the owls swoop ing past in broad
daylight, though people down in the street did; they pointed and gazed
open- mouthed as owl after owl sped overhead. Most of them had never
seen an owl even at nighttime. Mr. Dursley, however, had a perfectly
normal, owl-free morning. He yelled at five different people. He made
several important telephone calls and shouted a bit more. He was in a
very good mood until lunchtime, when he thought he
d forgotten all about the people in cloaks until he passed a group of
them next to the baker
t
know why, but they made him uneasy. This bunch were whispering
excitedly, too, and he couldn
The Potters, that's right, that's what I heard yes, their son, Harry
t such an unusual name. He was sure there were
lots of people called Potter who had a son called Harry. Come to think
of it, he wasn
d never even
seen the boy. It might have been Harvey. Or Harold. There was no point
in worrying Mrs. Dursley; she always got so upset at any mention of her
sister. He didn
d had a sister like that... but all
the same, those people in cloaks...

He found it a lot harder to concentrate on drills that afternoon and
when he left the building at five o
Sorry,
t seem at all upset at being almost knocked to the
ground. On the contrary, his face split into a wide smile and he said in
a squeaky voice that made passersby stare, "Don


And the old man hugged Mr. Dursley around the middle and walked off.

Mr. Dursley stood rooted to the spot. He had been hugged by a complete
stranger. He also thought he had been called a Muggle, whatever that
was. He was rattled. He hurried to his car and set off for home, hoping
he was imagining things, which he had never hoped before, because he
didn't approve of imagination.

As he pulled into the driveway of number four, the first thing he saw --
and it didn't improve his mood -- was the tabby cat he'd spotted that
morning. It was now sitting on his garden wall. He was sure it was the
same one; it had the same markings around its eyes.


 said Mr. Dursley loudly. The cat didn't move. It just gave him a
stern look. Was this normal cat behavior? Mr. Dursley wondered. Trying
to pull himself together, he let himself into the house. He was still
determined not to mention anything to his wife.

Mrs. Dursley had had a nice, normal day. She told him over dinner all
about Mrs. Next Door's problems with her daughter and how Dudley had
learned a new word (
t!"). Mr. Dursley tried to act normally. When
Dudley had been put to bed, he went into the living room in time to
catch the last report on the evening news:

"And finally, bird-watchers everywhere have reported that the nation
 The newscaster allowed himself a grin.




 said the weatherman, 
t know about that, but it
ve had a downpour of shooting
stars! Perhaps people have been celebrating Bonfire Night early -- it


Mr. Dursley sat frozen in his armchair. Shooting stars all over Britain?
Owls flying by daylight? Mysterious people in cloaks all over the place?
And a whisper, a whisper about the Potters...

Mrs. Dursley came into the living room carrying two cups of tea. It was
no good. He'd have to say something to her. He cleared his throat
nervously. 
t heard from your sister
lately, have you?"

As he had expected, Mrs. Dursley looked shocked and angry. After all,
they normally pretended she didn
No,
Why?
Funny stuff on the news,
Owls... shooting
stars... and there were a lot of funny-looking people in town today...
So?
Well, I just thought... maybe... it was something to do with... you
know... her crowd.
d heard the name "Potter." He decided he
didn
Their son --
he'd be about Dudley's age now, wouldn't he?
I suppose so,
What's his name again? Howard, isn't it?
Harry. Nasty, common name, if you ask me.
Oh, yes,
Yes, I quite
agree.
t say another word on the subject as they went upstairs to bed.
While Mrs. Dursley was in the bathroom, Mr. Dursley crept to the bedroom
window and peered down into the front garden. The cat was still there.
It was staring down Privet Drive as though it were waiting for
something.

Was he imagining things? Could all this have anything to do with the
Potters? If it did... if it got out that they were related to a pair of
-- well, he didn
t see how he and Petunia could get
mixed up in anything that might be going on -- he yawned and turned over
-- it couldn
t so much as quiver when a car door slammed on the
next street, nor when two owls swooped overhead. In fact, it was nearly
midnight before the cat moved at all.

A man appeared on the corner the cat had been watching, appeared so
suddenly and silently you
d just popped out of the
ground. The cat
s name was Albus Dumbledore.

Albus Dumbledore didn
I should have known.
t be able to see anything that was happening
down on the pavement. Dumbledore slipped the Put-Outer back inside his
cloak and set off down the street toward number four, where he sat down
on the wall next to the cat. He didn
Fancy seeing you here, Professor McGonagall.
How did you know it was me?
My dear Professor, I 've never seen a cat sit so stiffly.
You'd be stiff if you'd been sitting on a brick wall all day,
All day? When you could have been celebrating? I must have passed a
dozen feasts and parties on my way here.
Oh yes, everyone's celebrating, all right,
You'd think they'd be a bit more careful, but no -- even the Muggles
have noticed something's going on. It was on their news.
 dark living-room window. "I heard it. Flocks
of owls... shooting stars.... Well, they
ll bet
that was Dedalus Diggle. He never had much sense."

"You can
 said Dumbledore gently. 
ve had precious
little to celebrate for eleven years."

"I know that," said Professor McGonagall irritably. "But that


She threw a sharp, sideways glance at Dumbledore here, as though hoping
he was going to tell her something, but he didn't, so she went on. 



 said Dumbledore. 






re a kind of Muggle sweet I



 said Professor McGonagall coldly, as though she didn't
think this was the moment for lemon drops. 



You- Know-Who
 Professor McGonagall flinched, but Dumbledore, who was
unsticking two lemon drops, seemed not to notice. 
You-Know-Who.
s name.

"I know you haven 
But you're different. Everyone knows you're
the only one You-Know- oh, all right, Voldemort, was frightened of.
You flatter me,
Voldemort had powers I will
never have.
Only because you're too -- well -- noble to use them.
It's lucky it's dark. I haven't blushed so much since Madam Pomfrey
told me she liked my new earmuffs.
The owls
are nothing next to the rumors that are flying around. You know what
everyone's saying? About why he's disappeared? About what finally
stopped him?
everyone
What they're saying,
is that last night Voldemort
turned up in Godric's Hollow. He went to find the Potters. The rumor is
that Lily and James Potter are -- are -- that they're -- dead. 
Lily and James... I can't believe it... I didn't want to believe it...
Oh, Albus...
I know... I
know...
s voice trembled as she went on. "That
re saying he tried to kill the Potter
t. He couldn
re saying that when he couldn
s
power somehow broke -- and that
s gone.

Dumbledore nodded glumly.

"It
s true?" faltered Professor McGonagall. "After all he
s killed... he couldn
s just astounding... of all the things to stop him... but how in the
name of heaven did Harry survive?"

"We can only guess," said Dumbledore. "We may never know."

Professor McGonagall pulled out a lace handkerchief and dabbed at her
eyes beneath her spectacles. Dumbledore gave a great sniff as he took a
golden watch from his pocket and examined it. It was a very odd watch.
It had twelve hands but no numbers; instead, little planets were moving
around the edge. It must have made sense to Dumbledore, though, because
he put it back in his pocket and said, "Hagrid
d be here, by the way?"

"Yes," said Professor McGonagall. "And I don
re going to
tell me why you



ve come to bring Harry to his aunt and uncle. They



t mean -- you can
 cried
Professor McGonagall, jumping to her feet and pointing at number four.

t. I
t
find two people who are less like us. And they



s the best place for him," said Dumbledore firmly. "His aunt and
uncle will be able to explain everything to him when he
ve
written them a letter."

"A letter?" repeated Professor McGonagall faintly, sitting back down on
the wall. "Really, Dumbledore, you think you can explain all this in a
letter? These people will never understand him! He
t be surprised if today was known as Harry Potter day
in the future -- there will be books written about Harry -- every child
in our world will know his name!"

"Exactly," said Dumbledore, looking very seriously over the top of his
half-moon glasses. "It would be enough to turn any boy
t even
remember! CarA you see how much better off he
s ready to take it?"

Professor McGonagall opened her mouth, changed her mind, swallowed, and
then said, "Yes -- yes, you
 She eyed his cloak suddenly as though she
thought he might be hiding Harry underneath it.


s bringing him."

"You think it -- wise -- to trust Hagrid with something as important as
this?"

I would trust Hagrid with my life," said Dumbledore.

"I
t in the right place," said Professor
McGonagall grudgingly, "but you can
s not careless. He does
tend to -- what was that?"

A low rumbling sound had broken the silence around them. It grew
steadily louder as they looked up and down the street for some sign of a
headlight; it swelled to a roar as they both looked up at the sky -- and
a huge motorcycle fell out of the air and landed on the road in front of
them.

If the motorcycle was huge, it was nothing to the man sitting astride
it. He was almost twice as tall as a normal man and at least five times
as wide. He looked simply too big to be allowed, and so wild - long
tangles of bushy black hair and beard hid most of his face, he had hands
the size of trash can lids, and his feet in their leather boots were
like baby dolphins. In his vast, muscular arms he was holding a bundle
of blankets.

"Hagrid," said Dumbledore, sounding relieved. "At last. And where did
you get that motorcycle?"

"Borrowed it, Professor Dumbledore, sit," said the giant, climbing
carefully off the motorcycle as he spoke. "Young Sirius Black lent it to
me. I






 around. He fell asleep as we was
flyin


Dumbledore and Professor McGonagall bent forward over the bundle of
blankets. Inside, just visible, was a baby boy, fast asleep. Under a
tuft of jet-black hair over his forehead they could see a curiously
shaped cut, like a bolt of lightning.


 whispered Professor McGonagall.


 said Dumbledore. 
ll have that scar forever."

"Couldn



t. Scars can come in handy. I have one myself
above my left knee that is a perfect map of the London Underground. Well
-- give him here, Hagrid -- we


Dumbledore took Harry in his arms and turned toward the Dursleys' house.


 asked Hagrid. He bent his
great, shaggy head over Harry and gave him what must have been a very
scratchy, whiskery kiss. Then, suddenly, Hagrid let out a howl like a
wounded dog.


 hissed Professor McGonagall, 
ll wake the Muggles!"

"S-s-sorry," sobbed Hagrid, taking out a large, spotted handkerchief and
burying his face in it. "But I c-c-can
 James dead
-- an



s all very sad, but get a grip on yourself, Hagrid, or
we
 Professor McGonagall whispered, patting Hagrid gingerly
on the arm as Dumbledore stepped over the low garden wall and walked to
the front door. He laid Harry gently on the doorstep, took a letter out
of his cloak, tucked it inside Harry's blankets, and then came back to
the other two. For a full minute the three of them stood and looked at
the little bundle; Hagrid's shoulders shook, Professor McGonagall
blinked furiously, and the twinkling light that usually shone from
Dumbledore's eyes seemed to have gone out.


 said Dumbledore finally, 
s that. We



 said Hagrid in a very muffled voice, 
ll be takin
night, Professor McGonagall -- Professor Dumbledore, sir."

Wiping his streaming eyes on his jacket sleeve, Hagrid swung himself
onto the motorcycle and kicked the engine into life; with a roar it rose
into the air and off into the night.

"I shall see you soon, I expect, Professor McGonagall," said Dumbledore,
nodding to her. Professor McGonagall blew her nose in reply.

Dumbledore turned and walked back down the street. On the corner he
stopped and took out the silver Put-Outer. He clicked it once, and
twelve balls of light sped back to their street lamps so that Privet
Drive glowed suddenly orange and he could make out a tabby cat slinking
around the corner at the other end of the street. He could just see the
bundle of blankets on the step of number four.

"Good luck, Harry," he murmured. He turned on his heel and with a swish
of his cloak, he was gone.

A breeze ruffled the neat hedges of Privet Drive, which lay silent and
tidy under the inky sky, the very last place you would expect
astonishing things to happen. Harry Potter rolled over inside his
blankets without waking up. One small hand closed on the letter beside
him and he slept on, not knowing he was special, not knowing he was
famous, not knowing he would be woken in a few hours
s scream as she opened the front door to put out the milk
bottles, nor that he would spend the next few weeks being prodded and
pinched by his cousin Dudley... He couldn
To Harry Potter -- the boy
who lived!
 front door; it crept into their living
room, which was almost exactly the same as it had been on the night when
Mr. Dursley had seen that fateful news report about the owls. Only the
photographs on the mantelpiece really showed how much time had passed.
Ten years ago, there had been lots of pictures of what looked like a
large pink beach ball wearing different-colored bonnets -- but Dudley
Dursley was no longer a baby, and now the photographs showed a large
blond boy riding his first bicycle, on a carousel at the fair, playing a
computer game with his father, being hugged and kissed by his mother.
The room held no sign at all that another boy lived in the house, too.

Yet Harry Potter was still there, asleep at the moment, but not for
long. His Aunt Petunia was awake and it was her shrill voice that made
the first noise of the day.

"Up! Get up! Now!"

Harry woke with a start. His aunt rapped on the door again.

"Up!" she screeched. Harry heard her walking toward the kitchen and then
the sound of the frying pan being put on the stove. He rolled onto his
back and tried to remember the dream he had been having. It had been a
good one. There had been a flying motorcycle in it. He had a funny
feeling he
Are you up yet?
Nearly,
Well, get a move on, I want you to look after the bacon. And don't you
dare let it burn, I want everything perfect on Duddy's birthday.
What did you say?
Nothing, nothing...
s birthday -- how could he have forgotten? Harry got slowly out
of bed and started looking for socks. He found a pair under his bed and,
after pulling a spider off one of them, put them on. Harry was used to
spiders, because the cupboard under the stairs was full of them, and
that was where he slept.

When he was dressed he went down the hall into the kitchen. The table
was almost hidden beneath all Dudley
s
favorite punching bag was Harry, but he couldn
t look it, but he was very fast.

Perhaps it had something to do with living in a dark cupboard, but Harry
had always been small and skinny for his age. He looked even smaller and
skinnier than he really was because all he had to wear were old clothes
of Dudley
In the car crash when your parents died,
And don't ask
questions.
t ask questions -- that was the first rule for a quiet life with the
Dursleys.

Uncle Vernon entered the kitchen as Harry was turning over the bacon.

"Comb your hair!" he barked, by way of a morning greeting.

About once a week, Uncle Vernon looked over the top of his newspaper and
shouted that Harry needed a haircut. Harry must have had more haircuts
than the rest of the boys in his class put

together, but it made no difference, his hair simply grew that way --
all over the place.

Harry was frying eggs by the time Dudley arrived in the kitchen with his
mother. Dudley looked a lot like Uncle Vernon. He had a large pink face,
not much neck, small, watery blue eyes, and thick blond hair that lay
smoothly on his thick, fat head. Aunt Petunia often said that Dudley
looked like a baby angel -- Harry often said that Dudley looked like a
pig in a wig.

Harry put the plates of egg and bacon on the table, which was difficult
as there wasn
Thirty-six,
That's two
less than last year.
Darling, you haven't counted Auntie Marge's present, see, it's here
under this big one from Mommy and Daddy.
All right, thirty-seven then,
And we'll buy you another two presents while we're out today. How's
that, popkin? Two more presents. Is that all right''

Dudley thought for a moment. It looked like hard work. Finally he said
slowly, 
ll have thirty ... thirty..."

"Thirty-nine, sweetums," said Aunt Petunia.

"Oh." Dudley sat down heavily and grabbed the nearest parcel. "All right
then."

Uncle Vernon chuckled. "Little tyke wants his money
Atta boy, Dudley!" He ruffled Dudley
Bad news, Vernon,
Mrs. Figg's broken her leg. She can't
take him.
s direction.

Dudley
s heart gave a leap. Every
year on Dudley
d ever
owned.

"Now what?" said Aunt Petunia, looking furiously at Harry as though he
t easy when he reminded himself it would be
a whole year before he had to look at Tibbles, Snowy, Mr. Paws, and
Tufty again.

"We could phone Marge," Uncle Vernon suggested.

"Don


The Dursleys often spoke about Harry like this, as though he wasn't
there -- or rather, as though he was something very nasty that couldn't
understand them, like a slug.


s-her-name, your friend -- Yvonne?"

"On vacation in Majorca," snapped Aunt Petunia.

"You could just leave me here," Harry put in hopefully (he
s computer).

Aunt Petunia looked as though she
And come back and find the house in ruins?
I won't blow up the house,
t listening.

"I suppose we could take him to the zoo," said Aunt Petunia slowly, "...
and leave him in the car...."

"That car
s not sitting in it alone...."

Dudley began to cry loudly. In fact, he wasn
d really cried -- but he knew that if he screwed up
his face and wailed, his mother would give him anything he wanted.

"Dinky Duddydums, don
t let him spoil your special
day!" she cried, flinging her arms around him.

"I... don
 Dudley yelled between huge,
pretend sobs. 
 He shot Harry a nasty
grin through the gap in his mother's arms.

Just then, the doorbell rang -- 
re here!" said Aunt
Petunia frantically -- and a moment later, Dudley
s arms behind their
backs while Dudley hit them. Dudley stopped pretending to cry at once.

Half an hour later, Harry, who couldn
 car with Piers and Dudley, on the way to the
zoo for the first time in his life. His aunt and uncle hadn
d left, Uncle
Vernon had taken Harry aside.

"I
 he had said, putting his large purple face right up
close to Harry's, 
m warning you now, boy -- any funny business,
anything at all -- and you



m not going to do anything," said Harry, "honestly..

But Uncle Vernon didn
t make them happen.

Once, Aunt Petunia, tired of Harry coming back from the barbers looking
as though he hadn
to hide that horrible scar.
t explain how it had grown back so quickly.

Another time, Aunt Petunia had been trying to force him into a revolting
old sweater of Dudley
t fit
Harry. Aunt Petunia had decided it must have shrunk in the wash and, to
his great relief, Harry wasn
d gotten into terrible trouble for being found on
the roof of the school kitchens. Dudley
s surprise as anyone else
s headmistress telling them Harry had been climbing school
buildings. But all he
t school,
his cupboard, or Mrs. Figg
... roaring along like maniacs, the young hoodlums,
 said Harry, remembering suddenly. 


Uncle Vernon nearly crashed into the car in front. He turned right
around in his seat and yelled at Harry, his face like a gigantic beet
with a mustache: 
T FLY!"

Dudley and Piers sniggered.

I know they don
 said Harry. 


But he wished he hadn't said anything. If there was one thing the
Dursleys hated even more than his asking questions, it was his talking
about anything acting in a way it shouldn't, no matter if it was in a
dream or even a cartoon -- they seemed to think he might get dangerous
ideas.

It was a very sunny Saturday and the zoo was crowded with families. The
Dursleys bought Dudley and Piers large chocolate ice creams at the
entrance and then, because the smiling lady in the van had asked Harry
what he wanted before they could hurry him away, they bought him a cheap
lemon ice pop. It wasn't bad, either, Harry thought, licking it as they
watched a gorilla scratching its head who looked remarkably like Dudley,
except that it wasn't blond.

Harry had the best morning he'd had in a long time. He was careful to
walk a little way apart from the Dursleys so that Dudley and Piers, who
were starting to get bored with the animals by lunchtime, wouldn't fall
back on their favorite hobby of hitting him. They ate in the zoo
restaurant, and when Dudley had a tantrum because his knickerbocker
glory didn't have enough ice cream on top, Uncle Vernon bought him
another one and Harry was allowed to finish the first.

Harry felt, afterward, that he should have known it was all too good to
last.

After lunch they went to the reptile house. It was cool and dark in
there, with lit windows all along the walls. Behind the glass, all sorts
of lizards and snakes were crawling and slithering over bits of wood and
stone. Dudley and Piers wanted to see huge, poisonous cobras and thick,
man-crushing pythons. Dudley quickly found the largest snake in the
place. It could have wrapped its body twice around Uncle Vernon's car
and crushed it into a trash can -- but at the moment it didn't look in
the mood. In fact, it was fast asleep.

Dudley stood with his nose pressed against the glass, staring at the
glistening brown coils.


 he whined at his father. Uncle Vernon tapped on the
glass, but the snake didn't budge.


 Dudley ordered. Uncle Vernon rapped the glass smartly
with his knuckles, but the snake just snoozed on.


 Dudley moaned. He shuffled away.

Harry moved in front of the tank and looked intently at the snake. He
wouldn't have been surprised if it had died of boredom itself -- no
company except stupid people drumming their fingers on the glass trying
to disturb it all day long. It was worse than having a cupboard as a
bedroom, where the only visitor was Aunt Petunia hammering on the door
to wake you up; at least he got to visit the rest of the house.

The snake suddenly opened its beady eyes. Slowly, very slowly, it raised
its head until its eyes were on a level with Harry's.

It winked.

Harry stared. Then he looked quickly around to see if anyone was
watching. They weren't. He looked back at the snake and winked, too.

The snake jerked its head toward Uncle Vernon and Dudley, then raised
its eyes to the ceiling. It gave Harry a look that said quite plainly:


I know,
t sure the
snake could hear him. "It must be really annoying."

The snake nodded vigorously.

"Where do you come from, anyway?" Harry asked.

The snake jabbed its tail at a little sign next to the glass. Harry
peered at it.

Boa Constrictor, Brazil.

"Was it nice there?"

The boa constrictor jabbed its tail at the sign again and Harry read on:
This specimen was bred in the zoo. "Oh, I see -- so you


As the snake shook its head, a deafening shout behind Harry made both of
them jump.


T BELIEVE
WHAT IT


Dudley came waddling toward them as fast as he could.


 he said, punching Harry in the ribs. Caught by
surprise, Harry fell hard on the concrete floor. What came next happened
so fast no one saw how it happened -- one second, Piers and Dudley were
leaning right up close to the glass, the next, they had leapt back with
howls of horror.

Harry sat up and gasped; the glass front of the boa constrictor's tank
had vanished. The great snake was uncoiling itself rapidly, slithering
out onto the floor. People throughout the reptile house screamed and
started running for the exits.

As the snake slid swiftly past him, Harry could have sworn a low,
hissing voice said, 


The keeper of the reptile house was in shock.


 he kept saying, 


The zoo director himself made Aunt Petunia a cup of strong, sweet tea
while he apologized over and over again. Piers and Dudley could only
gibber. As far as Harry had seen, the snake hadn't done anything except
snap playfully at their heels as it passed, but by the time they were
all back in Uncle Vernon's car, Dudley was telling them how it had
nearly bitten off his leg, while Piers was swearing it had tried to
squeeze him to death. But worst of all, for Harry at least, was Piers
calming down enough to say, 
t you,
Harry?"

Uncle Vernon waited until Piers was safely out of the house before
starting on Harry. He was so angry he could hardly speak. He managed to
say, "Go -- cupboard -- stay -- no meals," before he collapsed into a
chair, and Aunt Petunia had to run and get him a large brandy.

Harry lay in his dark cupboard much later, wishing he had a watch. He
didn
t be sure the Dursleys were
asleep yet. Until they were, he couldn
d lived with the Dursleys almost ten years, ten miserable years, as
long as he could remember, ever since he
t remember being in the car when
his parents had died. Sometimes, when he strained his memory during long
hours in his cupboard, he came up with a strange vision: a blinding
flash of green light and a burn- ing pain on his forehead. This, he
supposed, was the crash, though he couldn
t remember his parents at all. His aunt and
uncle never spoke about them, and of course he was forbidden to ask
questions. There were no photographs of them in the house.

When he had been younger, Harry had dreamed and dreamed of some unknown
relation coming to take him away, but it had never happened; the
Dursleys were his only family. Yet sometimes he thought (or maybe hoped)
that strangers in the street seemed to know him. Very strange strangers
they were, too. A tiny man in a violet top hat had bowed to him once
while out shopping with Aunt Petunia and Dudley. After asking Harry
furiously if he knew the man, Aunt Petunia had rushed them out of the
shop without buying anything. A wild-looking old woman dressed all in
green had waved merrily at him once on a bus. A bald man in a very long
purple coat had actually shaken his hand in the street the other day and
then walked away without a word. The weirdest thing about all these
people was the way they seemed to vanish the second Harry tried to get a
closer look.

At school, Harry had no one. Everybody knew that Dudley
s gang.


CHAPTER THREE

THE LETTERS FROM NO ONE

The escape of the Brazilian boa constrictor earned Harry his
longest-ever punishment. By the time he was allowed out of his cupboard
again, the summer holidays had started and Dudley had already broken his
new video camera, crashed his remote control airplane, and, first time
out on his racing bike, knocked down old Mrs. Figg as she crossed Privet
Drive on her crutches.

Harry was glad school was over, but there was no escaping Dudley
s favorite sport: Harry Hunting.

This was why Harry spent as much time as possible out of the house,
wandering around and thinking about the end of the holidays, where he
could see a tiny ray of hope. When September came he would be going off
to secondary school and, for the first time in his life, he wouldn
s old private
school, Smeltings. Piers Polkiss was going there too. Harry, on the
other hand, was going to Stonewall High, the local public school. Dudley
thought this was very funny.

"They stuff people

he told Harry. 



 said Harry. 
s never had anything as
horrible as your head down it -- it might be sick." Then he ran, before
Dudley could work out what he
s. Mrs. Figg wasn 
d broken her leg tripping over one of her cats,
and she didn
d had it for several years.

That evening, Dudley paraded around the living room for the family in
his brand-new uniform. Smeltings
t
looking. This was supposed to be good training for later life.

As he looked at Dudley in his new knickerbockers, Uncle Vernon said
gruffly that it was the proudest moment of his life. Aunt Petunia burst
into tears and said she couldn
t trust himself to speak. He
thought two of his ribs might already have cracked from trying not to
laugh.

There was a horrible smell in the kitchen the next morning when Harry
went in for breakfast. It seemed to be coming from a large metal tub in
the sink. He went to have a look. The tub was full of what looked like
dirty rags swimming in gray water.

"What
 he asked Aunt Petunia. Her lips tightened as they always
did if he dared to ask a question.


 she said.

Harry looked in the bowl again.


 he said, 
t realize it had to be so wet."

"DotA be stupid," snapped Aunt Petunia. "I
s old
things gray for you. It
s when I


Harry seriously doubted this, but thought it best not to argue. He sat
down at the table and tried not to think about how he was going to look
on his first day at Stonewall High -- like he was wearing bits of old
elephant skin, probably.

Dudley and Uncle Vernon came in, both with wrinkled noses because of the
smell from Harry's new uniform. Uncle Vernon opened his newspaper as
usual and Dudley banged his Smelting stick, which he carried everywhere,
on the table.

They heard the click of the mail slot and flop of letters on the
doormat.


 said Uncle Vernon from behind his paper.













Harry dodged the Smelting stick and went to get the mail. Three things
lay on the doormat: a postcard from Uncle Vernon's sister Marge, who was
vacationing on the Isle of Wight, a brown envelope that looked like a
bill, and -- a letter for Harry.

Harry picked it up and stared at it, his heart twanging like a giant
elastic band. No one, ever, in his whole life, had written to him. Who
would? He had no friends, no other relatives -- he didn't belong to the
library, so he'd never even got rude notes asking for books back. Yet
here it was, a letter, addressed so plainly there could be no mistake:

Mr. H. Potter

The Cupboard under the Stairs

4 Privet Drive

Little Whinging

Surrey

The envelope was thick and heavy, made of yellowish parchment, and the
address was written in emerald-green ink. There was no stamp.

Turning the envelope over, his hand trembling, Harry saw a purple wax
seal bearing a coat of arms; a lion, an eagle, a badger, and a snake
surrounding a large letter H.


 shouted Uncle Vernon from the kitchen. 
 He chuckled at his own joke.

Harry went back to the kitchen, still staring at his letter. He handed
Uncle Vernon the bill and the postcard, sat down, and slowly began to
open the yellow envelope.

Uncle Vernon ripped open the bill, snorted in disgust, and flipped over
the postcard.


s ill," he informed Aunt Petunia. "Ate a funny whelk. --."

"Dad!" said Dudley suddenly. "Dad, Harry


Harry was on the point of unfolding his letter, which was written on the
same heavy parchment as the envelope, when it was jerked sharply out of
his hand by Uncle Vernon.


s mine!" said Harry, trying to snatch it back.

"Who
 sneered Uncle Vernon, shaking the letter open
with one hand and glancing at it. His face went from red to green faster
than a set of traffic lights. And it didn't stop there. Within seconds
it was the grayish white of old porridge.


 he gasped.

Dudley tried to grab the letter to read it, but Uncle Vernon held it
high out of his reach. Aunt Petunia took it curiously and read the first
line. For a moment it looked as though she might faint. She clutched her
throat and made a choking noise.




They stared at each other, seeming to have forgotten that Harry and
Dudley were still in the room. Dudley wasn't used to being ignored. He
gave his father a sharp tap on the head with his Smelting stick.


 he said loudly. want to read it,
as it's mine.
Get out, both of you,
t move.

I WANT MY LETTER!" he shouted.

"Let me see it!" demanded Dudley.

"OUT!" roared Uncle Vernon, and he took both Harry and Dudley by the
scruffs of their necks and threw them into the hall, slamming the
kitchen door behind them. Harry and Dudley promptly had a furious but
silent fight over who would listen at the keyhole; Dudley won, so Harry,
his glasses dangling from one ear, lay flat on his stomach to listen at
the crack between door and floor.

"Vernon," Aunt Petunia was saying in a quivering voice, "look at the
address -- how could they possibly know where he sleeps? You don
re watching the house?"

"Watching -- spying -- might be following us," muttered Uncle Vernon
wildly.

"But what should we do, Vernon? Should we write back? Tell them we don


Harry could see Uncle Vernon's shiny black shoes pacing up and down the
kitchen.


 he said finally. 
ll ignore it. If they don
s best... we won
But --
I'm not having one in the house, Petunia! Didn't we swear when we took
him in we'd stamp out that dangerous nonsense?
d
never done before; he visited Harry in his cupboard.

"Where
 said Harry, the moment Uncle Vernon had squeezed
through the door. 
s writing to me?"

"No one. it was addressed to you by mistake," said Uncle Vernon shortly.
"I have burned it."

"It was not a mistake," said Harry angrily, "it had my cupboard on it."

"SILENCE!" yelled Uncle Vernon, and a couple of spiders fell from the
ceiling. He took a few deep breaths and then forced his face into a
smile, which looked quite painful.

"Er -- yes, Harry -- about this cupboard. Your aunt and I have been
thinking... you
s second bedroom.

"Why?" said Harry.

"Don
 snapped his uncle. 


The Dursleys' house had four bedrooms: one for Uncle Vernon and Aunt
Petunia, one for visitors (usually Uncle Vernon's sister, Marge), one
where Dudley slept, and one where Dudley kept all the toys and things
that wouldn't fit into his first bedroom. It only took Harry one trip
upstairs to move everything he owned from the cupboard to this room. He
sat down on the bed and stared around him. Nearly everything in here was
broken. The month-old video camera was lying on top of a small, working
tank Dudley had once driven over the next door neighbor's dog; in the
corner was Dudley's first-ever television set, which he'd put his foot
through when his favorite program had been canceled; there was a large
birdcage, which had once held a parrot that Dudley had swapped at school
for a real air rifle, which was up on a shelf with the end all bent
because Dudley had sat on it. Other shelves were full of books. They
were the only things in the room that looked as though they'd never been
touched.

From downstairs came the sound of Dudley bawling at his mother, I don't
want him in there... I need that room... make him get out....
d have given
anything to be up here. Today he
d screamed, whacked his father with his Smelting stick, been
sick on purpose, kicked his mother, and thrown his tortoise through the
greenhouse roof, and he still didn
d opened the
letter in the hall. Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia kept looking at each
other darkly.

When the mail arrived, Uncle Vernon, who seemed to be trying to be nice
to Harry, made Dudley go and get it. They heard him banging things with
his Smelting stick all the way down the hall. Then he shouted, "There
Mr. H. Potter, The Smallest Bedroom, 4 Privet Drive --


With a strangled cry, Uncle Vernon leapt from his seat and ran down the
hall, Harry right behind him. Uncle Vernon had to wrestle Dudley to the
ground to get the letter from him, which was made difficult by the fact
that Harry had grabbed Uncle Vernon around the neck from behind. After a
minute of confused fighting, in which everyone got hit a lot by the
Smelting stick, Uncle Vernon straightened up, gasping for breath, with
Harry's letter clutched in his hand.


 he wheezed at Harry.



Harry walked round and round his new room. Someone knew he had moved out
of his cupboard and they seemed to know he hadn't received his first
letter. Surely that meant they'd try again? And this time he'd make sure
they didn't fail. He had a plan.

The repaired alarm clock rang at six o'clock the next morning. Harry
turned it off quickly and dressed silently. He mustn't wake the
Dursleys. He stole downstairs without turning on any of the lights.

He was going to wait for the postman on the corner of Privet Drive and
get the letters for number four first. His heart hammered as he crept
across the dark hall toward the front door --

Harry leapt into the air; he'd trodden on something big and squashy on
the doormat -- something alive!

Lights clicked on upstairs and to his horror Harry realized that the
big, squashy something had been his uncle's face. Uncle Vernon had been
lying at the foot of the front door in a sleeping bag, clearly making
sure that Harry didn't do exactly what he'd been trying to do. He
shouted at Harry for about half an hour and then told him to go and make
a cup of tea. Harry shuffled miserably off into the kitchen and by the
time he got back, the mail had arrived, right into Uncle Vernon's lap.
Harry could see three letters addressed in green ink.

I want --
See,
if
they can't deliver them they'll just give up.
I'm not sure that'll work, Vernon.
Oh, these people's minds work in strange ways, Petunia, they're not
like you and me,
t go through the mail slot they had been pushed under the door,
slotted through the sides, and a few even forced through the small
window in the downstairs bathroom.

Uncle Vernon stayed at home again. After burning all the letters, he got
out a hammer and nails and boarded up the cracks around the front and
back doors so no one could go out. He hummed "Tiptoe Through the Tulips"
as he worked, and jumped at small noises.

On Saturday, things began to get out of hand. Twenty-four letters to
Harry found their way into the house, rolled up and hidden inside each
of the two dozen eggs that their very confused milkman had handed Aunt
Petunia through the living room window. While Uncle Vernon made furious
telephone calls to the post office and the dairy trying to find someone
to complain to, Aunt Petunia shredded the letters in her food processor.

"Who on earth wants to talk to you this badly?" Dudley asked Harry in
amazement.

On Sunday morning, Uncle Vernon sat down at the breakfast table looking
tired and rather ill, but happy.

"No post on Sundays," he reminded them cheerfully as he spread marmalade
on his newspapers, "no damn letters today --"

Something came whizzing down the kitchen chimney as he spoke and caught
him sharply on the back of the head. Next moment, thirty or forty
letters came pelting out of the fireplace like bullets. The Dursleys
ducked, but Harry leapt into the air trying to catch one.

"Out! OUT!"

Uncle Vernon seized Harry around the waist and threw him into the hall.
When Aunt Petunia and Dudley had run out with their arms over their
faces, Uncle Vernon slammed the door shut. They could hear the letters
still streaming into the room, bouncing off the walls and floor.

"That does it," said Uncle Vernon, trying to speak calmly but pulling
great tufts out of his mustache at the same time. I want you all back
here in five minutes ready to leave. We


He looked so dangerous with half his mustache missing that no one dared
argue. Ten minutes later they had wrenched their way through the
boarded-up doors and were in the car, speeding toward the highway.
Dudley was sniffling in the back seat; his father had hit him round the
head for holding them up while he tried to pack his television, VCR, and
computer in his sports bag.

They drove. And they drove. Even Aunt Petunia didn't dare ask where they
were going. Every now and then Uncle Vernon would take a sharp turn and
drive in the opposite direction for a while. 
em off... shake 
 he would mutter whenever he did this.

They didn't stop to eat or drink all day. By nightfall Dudley was
howling. He'd never had such a bad day in his life. He was hungry, he'd
missed five television programs he'd wanted to see, and he'd never gone
so long without blowing up an alien on his computer.

Uncle Vernon stopped at last outside a gloomy-looking hotel on the
outskirts of a big city. Dudley and Harry shared a room with twin beds
and damp, musty sheets. Dudley snored but Harry stayed awake, sitting on
the windowsill, staring down at the lights of passing cars and
wondering....

They ate stale cornflakes and cold tinned tomatoes on toast for
breakfast the next day. They had just finished when the owner of the
hotel came over to their table.


Scuse me, but is one of you Mr. H. Potter? Only I got about an 


She held up a letter so they could read the green ink address:

Mr. H. Potter

Room 17

Railview Hotel

Cokeworth

Harry made a grab for the letter but Uncle Vernon knocked his hand out
of the way. The woman stared.


ll take them," said Uncle Vernon, standing up quickly and following
her from the dining room.

Wouldn
 Aunt Petunia suggested
timidly, hours later, but Uncle Vernon didn't seem to hear her. Exactly
what he was looking for, none of them knew. He drove them into the
middle of a forest, got out, looked around, shook his head, got back in
the car, and off they went again. The same thing happened in the middle
of a plowed field, halfway across a suspension bridge, and at the top of
a multilevel parking garage.


s gone mad, hasn
 Dudley asked Aunt Petunia dully late that
afternoon. Uncle Vernon had parked at the coast, locked them all inside
the car, and disappeared.

It started to rain. Great drops beat on the roof of the car. Dud ley
sniveled.


s Monday," he told his mother. "The Great Humberto


Monday. This reminded Harry of something. If it was Monday -- and you
could usually count on Dudley to know the days the week, because of
television -- then tomorrow, Tuesday, was Harry's eleventh birthday. Of
course, his birthdays were never exactly fun -- last year, the Dursleys
had given him a coat hanger and a pair of Uncle Vernon's old socks.
Still, you weren't eleven every day.

Uncle Vernon was back and he was smiling. He was also carrying a long,
thin package and didn't answer Aunt Petunia when she asked what he'd
bought.


 he said. 


It was very cold outside the car. Uncle Vernon was pointing at what
looked like a large rock way out at sea. Perched on top of the rock was
the most miserable little shack you could imagine. One thing was
certain, there was no television in there.


 said Uncle Vernon gleefully, clapping his
hands together. 
s kindly agreed to lend us his
boat!"

A toothless old man came ambling up to them, pointing, with a rather
wicked grin, at an old rowboat bobbing in the iron-gray water below
them.

"I
 said Uncle Vernon, 


It was freezing in the boat. Icy sea spray and rain crept down their
necks and a chilly wind whipped their faces. After what seemed like
hours they reached the rock, where Uncle Vernon, slipping and sliding,
led the way to the broken-down house.

The inside was horrible; it smelled strongly of seaweed, the wind
whistled through the gaps in the wooden walls, and the fireplace was
damp and empty. There were only two rooms.

Uncle Vernon's rations turned out to be a bag of chips each and four
bananas. He tried to start a fire but the empty chip bags just smoked
and shriveled up.


 he said cheerfully.

He was in a very good mood. Obviously he thought nobody stood a chance
of reaching them here in a storm to deliver mail. Harry privately
agreed, though the thought didn't cheer him up at all.

As night fell, the promised storm blew up around them. Spray from the
high waves splattered the walls of the hut and a fierce wind rattled the
filthy windows. Aunt Petunia found a few moldy blankets in the second
room and made up a bed for Dudley on the moth-eaten sofa. She and Uncle
Vernon went off to the lumpy bed next door, and Harry was left to find
the softest bit of floor he could and to curl up under the thinnest,
most ragged blanket.

The storm raged more and more ferociously as the night went on. Harry
couldn't sleep. He shivered and turned over, trying to get comfortable,
his stomach rumbling with hunger. Dudley's snores were drowned by the
low rolls of thunder that started near midnight. The lighted dial of
Dudley's watch, which was dangling over the edge of the sofa on his fat
wrist, told Harry he'd be eleven in ten minutes' time. He lay and
watched his birthday tick nearer, wondering if the Dursleys would
remember at all, wondering where the letter writer was now.

Five minutes to go. Harry heard something creak outside. He hoped the
roof wasn't going to fall in, although he might be warmer if it did.
Four minutes to go. Maybe the house in Privet Drive would be so full of
letters when they got back that he'd be able to steal one somehow.

Three minutes to go. Was that the sea, slapping hard on the rock like
that? And (two minutes to go) what was that funny crunching noise? Was
the rock crumbling into the sea?

One minute to go and he'd be eleven. Thirty seconds... twenty ... ten...
nine -- maybe he'd wake Dudley up, just to annoy him -- three... two...
one...

BOOM.

The whole shack shivered and Harry sat bolt upright, staring at the
door. Someone was outside, knocking to come in.


CHAPTER FOUR

THE KEEPER OF THE KEYS

BOOM. They knocked again. Dudley jerked awake. 
s the cannon?" he
said stupidly.

There was a crash behind them and Uncle Vernon came skidding into the
room. He was holding a rifle in his hands -- now they knew what had been
in the long, thin package he had brought with them.

"Who
 he shouted. 
m armed!"

There was a pause. Then --

SMASH!

The door was hit with such force that it swung clean off its hinges and
with a deafening crash landed flat on the floor.

A giant of a man was standing in the doorway. His face was almost
completely hidden by a long, shaggy mane of hair and a wild, tangled
beard, but you could make out his eyes, glinting like black beetles
under all the hair.

The giant squeezed his way into the hut, stooping so that his head just
brushed the ceiling. He bent down, picked up the door, and fitted it
easily back into its frame. The noise of the storm outside dropped a
little. He turned to look at them all.

"Couldn
 tea, could yeh? It


He strode over to the sofa where Dudley sat frozen with fear.


 said the stranger.

Dudley squeaked and ran to hide behind his mother, who was crouching,
terrified, behind Uncle Vernon.


 here
 said the giant.

Harry looked up into the fierce, wild, shadowy face and saw that the
beetle eyes were crinkled in a smile.


 time I saw you, you was only a baby," said the giant. "Yeh look a
lot like yet dad, but yeh
s eyes."

Uncle Vernon made a funny rasping noise.

I demand that you leave at once, sit!" he said. "You are breaking and
entering!"

"Ah, shut up, Dursley, yeh great prune," said the giant; he reached over
the back of the sofa, jerked the gun out of Uncle Vernon
Anyway -- Harry,
a
very happy birthday to yeh. Got summat fer yeh here -- I mighta sat on
it at some point, but it'll taste all right.
Who are
you?
True, I haven't introduced meself. Rubeus Hagrid, Keeper of Keys and
Grounds at Hogwarts.
s whole arm.

"What about that tea then, eh?" he said, rubbing his hands together.
"I
ve got it, mind."

His eyes fell on the empty grate with the shriveled chip bags in it and
he snorted. He bent down over the fireplace; they couldn
d sunk into a hot bath.

The giant sat back down on the sofa, which sagged under his weight, and
began taking all sorts of things out of the pockets of his coat: a
copper kettle, a squashy package of sausages, a poker, a teapot, several
chipped mugs, and a bottle of some amber liquid that he took a swig from
before starting to make tea. Soon the hut was full of the sound and
smell of sizzling sausage. Nobody said a thing while the giant was
working, but as he slid the first six fat, juicy, slightly burnt
sausages from the poker, Dudley fidgeted a little. Uncle Vernon said
sharply, "Don


The giant chuckled darkly.


 of a son don
 anymore, Dursley, don


He passed the sausages to Harry, who was so hungry he had never tasted
anything so wonderful, but he still couldn't take his eyes off the
giant. Finally, as nobody seemed about to explain anything, he said,

m sorry, but I still don


The giant took a gulp of tea and wiped his mouth with the back of his
hand.


 he said, 
 like I told yeh, I
ll know all about Hogwarts, o
Er -- no,
Sorry,
Sony?
It' s them as should be sorry! I knew yeh weren't
gettin' yer letters but I never thought yeh wouldn't even know abou'
Hogwarts, fer cryin' out loud! Did yeh never wonder where yet parents
learned it all?
All what?
ALL WHAT?
Now wait jus' one second!
Do you mean ter tell me,
that this boy --
this boy! -- knows nothin' abou' -- about ANYTHING?
t bad.

"I know some things," he said. "I can, you know, do math and stuff." But
Hagrid simply waved his hand and said, "About our world, I mean. Your
world. My world. Yer parents





Hagrid looked as if he was about to explode.


 he boomed.

Uncle Vernon, who had gone very pale, whispered something that sounded
like 
 Hagrid stared wildly at Harry.


 he said. 
re
famous. You



t famous, were they?"

"Yeh don
 know..." Hagrid ran his fingers through his
hair, fixing Harry with a bewildered stare.

"Yeh don
 he said finally.

Uncle Vernon suddenly found his voice.


 he commanded. 


A braver man than Vernon Dursley would have quailed under the furious
look Hagrid now gave him; when Hagrid spoke, his every syllable trembled
with rage.



you



 said Harry eagerly.


 yelled Uncle Vernon in panic.

Aunt Petunia gave a gasp of horror.


 said Hagrid. 


There was silence inside the hut. Only the sea and the whistling wind
could be heard.


 gasped Harry.


 course," said Hagrid, sitting back down on the sofa, which
groaned and sank even lower, "an
 good
d say, once
yeh
 dad like yours, what else
would yeh be? An
s abou


Harry stretched out his hand at last to take the yellowish envelope,
addressed in emerald green to Mr. H. Potter, The Floor, Hut-on-the-Rock,
The Sea. He pulled out the letter and read:

HOGWARTS SCHOOL of WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY

Headmaster: ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

(Order of Merlin, First Class, Grand Sorc., Chf. Warlock, Supreme
Mugwump, International Confed. of Wizards)

Dear Mr. Potter,

We are pleased to inform you that you have been accepted at Hogwarts
School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Please find enclosed a list of all
necessary books and equipment.

Term begins on September 1. We await your owl by no later than July 31.
Yours sincerely,

Minerva McGonagall,

Deputy Headmistress

Questions exploded inside Harry's head like fireworks and he couldn't
decide which to ask first. After a few minutes he stammered, 



 Gorgons, that reminds me," said Hagrid, clapping a hand to
his forehead with enough force to knock over a cart horse, and from yet
another pocket inside his overcoat he pulled an owl -- a real, live,
rather ruffled-looking owl -- a long quill, and a roll of parchment.
With his tongue between his teeth he scribbled a note that Harry could
read upside down:

Dear Professor Dumbledore,

Given Harry his letter.

Taking him to buy his things tomorrow.

Weather
re Well.

Hagrid

Hagrid rolled up the note, gave it to the owl, which clamped it in its
beak, went to the door, and threw the owl out into the storm. Then he
came back and sat down as though this was as normal as talking on the
telephone.

Harry realized his mouth was open and closed it quickly.

"Where was I?" said Hagrid, but at that moment, Uncle Vernon, still
ashen-faced but looking very angry, moved into the firelight.

"He
 he said.

Hagrid grunted.


d like ter see a great Muggle like you stop him," he said.

"A what?" said Harry, interested.

"A Muggle," said Hagrid, "it
 it
 the biggest Muggles I
ever laid eyes on."

"We swore when we took him in we
 said
Uncle Vernon, 
d stamp it out of him! Wizard indeed!"

"You knew?" said Harry. "You knew I



 shrieked Aunt Petunia suddenly. 


She stopped to draw a deep breath and then went ranting on. It seemed
she had been wanting to say all this for years.


d be just the same, just as strange,
just as -- as -- abnormal -- and then, if you please, she went and got
herself blown up and we got landed with you!"

Harry had gone very white. As soon as he found his voice he said, "Blown
up? You told me they died in a car crash!"

"CAR CRASH!" roared Hagrid, jumping up so angrily that the Dursleys
scuttled back to their corner. "How could a car crash kill Lily an
s an outrage! A scandal! Harry Potter not knowin
 
 Harry asked urgently.

The anger faded from Hagrid's face. He looked suddenly anxious.


 he said, in a low, worried voice. 
 hold of
yeh, how much yeh didn
 know if I
t go off ter
Hogwarts not knowin


He threw a dirty look at the Dursleys.


s best yeh know as much as I can tell yeh -- mind, I can
, it
ry, parts of it...."

He sat down, stared into the fire for a few seconds, and then said, "It
begins, I suppose, with -- with a person called -- but it
t know his name, everyone in our world knows --"

"Who? "

"Well -- I don
 the name if I can help it. No one does."

"Why not?"

"Gulpin


Hagrid gulped, but no words came out.


 Harry suggested.


t spell it. All right -- Voldemort. " Hagrid shuddered. "Don
 fer followers. Got 
 his power, 

himself power, all right. Dark days, Harry. Didn
t dare get friendly with strange wizards or witches... terrible
things happened. He was takin
Course, some stood up to him --
an
em. Horribly. One o
s the only one You-Know-Who was afraid of.
Didn
 the school, not jus
Now, yer mum an' dad were as good a witch an' wizard as I ever knew.
Head boy an' girl at Hogwarts in their day! Suppose the myst'ry is why
You-Know-Who never tried to get 'em on his side before... probably knew
they were too close ter Dumbledore ter want anythin' ter do with the
Dark Side.


em... maybe he just wanted 
 -- an


Hagrid suddenly pulled out a very dirty, spotted handkerchief and blew
his nose with a sound like a foghorn.


 he said. 
s that sad -- knew yer mum an
 nicer
people yeh couldn



em. An
 this is the real myst
 by then. But he couldn
s what yeh get when a Powerful, evil curse touches
yeh -- took care of yer mum an
 yer house, even -- but it didn
 that
em, no one except you, an
d killed some o
 wizards of the age -- the McKinnons, the Bones, the
Prewetts -- an
 you lived."

Something very painful was going on in Harry
s story
came to a close, he saw again the blinding flash of green light, more
clearly than he had ever remembered it before -- and he remembered
something else, for the first time in his life: a high, cold, cruel
laugh.

Hagrid was watching him sadly.

"Took yeh from the ruined house myself, on Dumbledore



 said Uncle Vernon. Harry jumped; he had almost
forgotten that the Dursleys were there. Uncle Vernon certainly seemed to
have got back his courage. He was glaring at Hagrid and his fists were
clenched.


 he snarled, 
s something
strange about you, probably nothing a good beating wouldn
s better off without them in my opinion --
asked for all they got, getting mixed up with these wizarding types --
just what I expected, always knew they


But at that moment, Hagrid leapt from the sofa and drew a battered pink
umbrella from inside his coat. Pointing this at Uncle Vernon like a
sword, he said, 
m warning you, Dursley -I


In danger of being speared on the end of an umbrella by a bearded giant,
Uncle Vernon's courage failed again; he flattened himself against the
wall and fell silent.


s better," said Hagrid, breathing heavily and sitting back down on
the sofa, which this time sagged right down to the floor.

Harry, meanwhile, still had questions to ask, hundreds of them.

"But what happened to Vol--, sorry -- I mean, You-Know-Who?"

"Good question, Harry. Disappeared. Vanished. Same night he tried ter
kill you. Makes yeh even more famous. That
ry, see...
he was gettin
 more powerful -- why
Some say he died. Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if he had enough
human left in him to die. Some say he's still out there, bidin' his
time, like, but I don' believe it. People who was on his side came back
ter ours. Some of 'em came outta kinda trances. Don~ reckon they
could've done if he was comin' back.


s still out there somewhere but lost his powers.
Too weak to carry on. 
 about you finished him, Harry.
There was somethin
 on that night he hadn
 about you stumped him, all
right."

Hagrid looked at Harry with warmth and respect blazing in his eyes, but
Harry, instead of feeling pleased and proud, felt quite sure there had
been a horrible mistake. A wizard? Him? How could he possibly be? He
t they been turned
into warty toads every time they
d once defeated the greatest sorcerer in the world, how come Dudley
had always been able to kick him around like a football?

"Hagrid," he said quietly, "I think you must have made a mistake. I
don


To his surprise, Hagrid chuckled.




Harry looked into the fire. Now he came to think about it... every odd
thing that had ever made his aunt and uncle furious with him had
happened when he, Harry, had been upset or angry... chased by Dudley's
gang, he had somehow found himself out of their reach... dreading going
to school with that ridiculous haircut, he'd managed to make it grow
back... and the very last time Dudley had hit him, hadn't he got his
revenge, without even realizing he was doing it? Hadn't he set a boa
constrictor on him?

Harry looked back at Hagrid, smiling, and saw that Hagrid was positively
beaming at him.


 said Hagrid. 
ll be
right famous at Hogwarts."

But Uncle Vernon wasn
Haven't I told you he's not going?
He's going to Stonewall
High and he'll be grateful for it. I've read those letters and he needs
all sorts of rubbish -- spell books and wands and --
If he wants ter go, a great Muggle like you won't stop him,
Stop Lily an' James Potter' s son goin' ter Hogwarts! Yer mad.
His name's been down ever since he was born. He's off ter the finest
school of witchcraft and wizardry in the world. Seven years there and he
won't know himself. He'll be with youngsters of his own sort, fer a
change, an' he'll be under the greatest headmaster Hogwarts ever had
Albus Dumbled--
I AM NOT PAYING FOR SOME CRACKPOT OLD FOOL To TEACH HIM MAGIC TRICKS!
NEVER,
- INSULT- ALBUS- DUMBLEDORE-
IN- FRONT- OF- ME!
s tail poking through a hole in
his trousers.

Uncle Vernon roared. Pulling Aunt Petunia and Dudley into the other
room, he cast one last terrified look at Hagrid and slammed the door
behind them.

Hagrid looked down at his umbrella and stroked his beard.

"Shouldn
 he said ruefully, 
t work
anyway. Meant ter turn him into a pig, but I suppose he was so much like
a pig anyway there wasn


He cast a sideways look at Harry under his bushy eyebrows.


t mention that ter anyone at Hogwarts," he
said. "I
. I was
allowed ter do a bit ter follow yeh an
 stuff
-- one o
Why aren't you supposed to do magic?
Oh, well -- I was at Hogwarts meself but I -- er -- got expelled, ter
tell yeh the truth. In me third year. They snapped me wand in half an'
everything. But Dumbledore let me stay on as gamekeeper. Great man,
Dumbledore.
Why were you expelled?
It's gettin' late and we've got lots ter do tomorrow,
Gotta get up ter town, get all yer books an' that.
You can kip under that,
Don' mind if it wriggles a bit, I
think I still got a couple o' dormice in one o' the pockets.
It was a dream, he told himself firmly. 
ll be at home in my cupboard."

There was suddenly a loud tapping noise.

And there
t open his eyes. It had been such a good
dream.

Tap. Tap. Tap.

"All right," Harry mumbled, "I


He sat up and Hagrid's heavy coat fell off him. The hut was full of
sunlight, the storm was over, Hagrid himself was asleep on the collapsed
sofa, and there was an owl rapping its claw on the window, a newspaper
held in its beak.

Harry scrambled to his feet, so happy he felt as though a large balloon
was swelling inside him. He went straight to the window and jerked it
open. The owl swooped in and dropped the newspaper on top of Hagrid, who
didn't wake up. The owl then fluttered onto the floor and began to
attack Hagrid's coat.


t do that."

Harry tried to wave the owl out of the way, but it snapped its beak
fiercely at him and carried on savaging the coat.

"Hagrid!" said Harry loudly. "There
Pay him,
What?
He wants payin' fer deliverin' the paper. Look in the pockets.
s coat seemed to be made of nothing but pockets -- bunches of
keys, slug pellets, balls of string, peppermint humbugs, teabags...
finally, Harry pulled out a handful of strange-looking coins.

"Give him five Knuts," said Hagrid sleepily.

"Knuts?"

"The little bronze ones."

Harry counted out five little bronze coins, and the owl held out his leg
so Harry could put the money into a small leather pouch tied to it. Then
he flew off through the open window.

Hagrid yawned loudly, sat up, and stretched.

"Best be Off, Harry, lots ter do today, gotta get up ter London an


Harry was turning over the wizard coins and looking at them. He had just
thought of something that made him feel as though the happy balloon
inside him had got a puncture.





 said Hagrid, who was pulling on his huge boots.


t got any money -- and you heard Uncle Vernon last night ... he
won



t worry about that," said Hagrid, standing up and scratching his
head. "D
t leave yeh anything?"

"But if their house was destroyed --"

"They didn
 bank. Have a sausage, they
 I
wouldn
 yer birthday cake, neither."

"Wizards have banks?"

"Just the one. Gringotts. Run by goblins."

Harry dropped the bit of sausage he was holding.

"Goblins?"

"Yeah -- so yeh
 rob it, I
cept maybe Hogwarts. As a matter o
 Hagrid drew himself up proudly. 
 you gettin
Got everythin'? Come on, then.
How did you get here?
Flew,
Flew?
Yeah -- but we'll go back in this. Not s'pposed ter use magic now I've
got yeh.
Seems a shame ter row, though,
If I was ter -- er -- speed things up a bit, would
yeh mind not mentionin' it at Hogwarts?
Of course not,
Why would you be mad to try and rob Gringotts?
Spells -- enchantments,
They say there's dragons guardin' the highsecurity vaults. And
then yeh gotta find yer way -- Gringotts is hundreds of miles under
London, see. Deep under the Underground. Yeh'd die of hunger tryin' ter
get out, even if yeh did manage ter get yer hands on summat.
d never
had so many questions in his life.

"Ministry o
 things up as usual," Hagrid muttered, turning
the page.

"There
 Harry asked, before he could stop
himself.


Course," said Hagrid. "They wanted Dumbledore fer Minister, 0 
d never leave Hogwarts, so old Cornelius Fudge got the
job. Bungler if ever there was one. So he pelts Dumbledore with owls
every morning, askin






s still
witches an
 down the country."

"Why?"

"Why? Blimey, Harry, everyone
 magic solutions to their
problems. Nah, we


At this moment the boat bumped gently into the harbor wall. Hagrid
folded up his newspaper, and they clambered up the stone steps onto the
street.

Passersby stared a lot at Hagrid as they walked through the little town
to the station. Harry couldn't blame them. Not only was Hagrid twice as
tall as anyone else, he kept pointing at perfectly ordinary things like
parking meters and saying loudly, 



 said Harry, panting a bit as he ran to keep up, 



 said Hagrid. 
d like a dragon."

"You





They had reached the station. There was a train to London in five
minutes' time. Hagrid, who didn't understand 
 as he
called it, gave the bills to Harry so he could buy their tickets.

People stared more than ever on the train. Hagrid took up two seats and
sat knitting what looked like a canary-yellow circus tent.


 he asked as he counted stitches. Harry
took the parchment envelope out of his pocket.


 said Hagrid. 
s a list there of everything yeh need."

Harry unfolded a second piece of paper he hadn
 clothes should carry name tags

COURSE BOOKS

All students should have a copy of each of the following:

The Standard Book of Spells (Grade 1) by Miranda Goshawk

A History of Magic by Bathilda Bagshot

Magical Theory by Adalbert Waffling

A Beginners
Can we buy all this in London?
If yeh know where to go,
I don't know how the Muggles manage without magic,
t known that the Dursleys had no sense of
humor, he might have thought so; yet somehow, even though everything
Hagrid had told him so far was unbelievable, Harry couldn
This is it,
the Leaky Cauldron. It's a
famous place.
t pointed it out,
Harry wouldn
t
glance at it. Their eyes slid from the big book shop on one side to the
record shop on the other as if they couldn
The usual, Hagrid?
Can't, Tom, I'm on Hogwarts business,
s shoulder and making Harry
Good Lord,
is this -- can this
be --?
Bless my soul,
Harry Potter... what an
honor.
Welcome back, Mr. Potter, welcome back.
t know what to say. Everyone was looking at him. The old
woman with the pipe was puffing on it without realizing it had gone out.
Hagrid was beaming.

Then there was a great scraping of chairs and the next moment, Harry
found himself shaking hands with everyone in the Leaky Cauldron.

"Doris Crockford, Mr. Potter, can
m meeting you at last."

"So proud, Mr. Potter, I



m all of a flutter."

"Delighted, Mr. Potter, just can
s the name, Dedalus
Diggle."

"I
 said Harry, as Dedalus Diggle's top hat fell off
in his excitement. 



 cried Dedalus Diggle, looking around at everyone. 
 Harry shook hands again and again --
Doris Crockford kept coming back for more.

A pale young man made his way forward, very nervously. One of his eyes
was twitching.


 said Hagrid. 



 stammered Professor Quirrell, grasping Harry's hand,

t t-tell you how p- pleased I am to meet you."

"What sort of magic do you teach, Professor Quirrell?"

"D-Defense Against the D-D-Dark Arts," muttered Professor Quirrell, as
though he
N-not that you n-need it, eh,
P-P-Potter?
You'll be g-getting all your
equipment, I suppose? I've g-got to p-pick up a new b-book on vampires,
m-myself.
t let Professor Quirrell keep Harry to himself. It
took almost ten minutes to get away from them all. At last, Hagrid
managed to make himself heard over the babble.

"Must get on -- lots ter buy. Come on, Harry."

Doris Crockford shook Harry
Told yeh, didn't I? Told yeh you was famous. Even Professor Quirrell
was tremblin' ter meet yeh -- mind you, he's usually tremblin'.
Is he always that nervous?
Oh, yeah. Poor bloke. Brilliant mind. He was fine while he was

studyin' outta books but then he took a year off ter get some firsthand
experience.... They say he met vampires in the Black Forest, and there
was a nasty bit o' trouble with a hag -- never been the same since.
Scared of the students, scared of his own subject now, where's me
umbrella?
s head was swimming. Hagrid, meanwhile, was
counting bricks in the wall above the trash can.

"Three up... two across he muttered. "Right, stand back, Harry."

He tapped the wall three times with the point of his umbrella.

The brick he had touched quivered -- it wriggled -- in the middle, a
small hole appeared -- it grew wider and wider -- a second later they
were facing an archway large enough even for Hagrid, an archway onto a
cobbled street that twisted and turned out of sight.

"Welcome," said Hagrid, "to Diagon Alley."

He grinned at Harry
Yeah, you'll be needin' one,
but we gotta get yer money
first.
Dragon liver, seventeen Sickles an ounce, they're
mad....
s age had their noses pressed against a window with
broomsticks in it. "Look," Harry heard one of them say, "the new Nimbus
Two Thousand -- fastest ever --" There were shops selling robes, shops
selling telescopes and strange silver instruments Harry had never seen
before, windows stacked with barrels of bat spleens and eels
Gringotts,
Yeah, that's a goblin,
Like I said, Yeh'd be mad ter try an' rob it,
Morning,
We've come ter take some money
outta Mr. Harry Potter's safe.
You have his key, Sir?
Got it here somewhere,
s book of numbers. The goblin wrinkled his nose. Harry
watched the goblin on their right weighing a pile of rubies as big as
glowing coals.

"Got it," said Hagrid at last, holding up a tiny golden key.

The goblin looked at it closely.

"That seems to be in order."

"An
ve also got a letter here from Professor Dumbledore," said Hagrid
importantly, throwing out his chest. "It


The goblin read the letter carefully.


 he said, handing it back to Hagrid, 


Griphook was yet another goblin. Once Hagrid had crammed all the dog
biscuits back inside his pockets, he and Harry followed Griphook toward
one of the doors leading off the hall.


s the You-Know-What in vault seven hundred and thirteen?" Harry
asked.

"Can
 said Hagrid mysteriously. 
s trusted me. More
s worth ter tell yeh
that."

Griphook held the door open for them. Harry, who had expected more
marble, was surprised. They were in a narrow stone passageway lit with
flaming torches. It sloped steeply downward and there were little
railway tracks on the floor. Griphook whistled and a small cart came
hurtling up the tracks toward them. They climbed in -- Hagrid with some
difficulty -- and were off.

At first they just hurtled through a maze of twisting passages. Harry
tried to remember, left, right, right, left, middle fork, right, left,
but it was impossible. The rattling cart seemed to know its own way,
because Griphook wasn
s eyes stung as the cold air rushed past them, but he kept them
wide open. Once, he thought he saw a burst of fire at the end of a
passage and twisted around to see if it was a dragon, but too late - -
they plunged even deeper, passing an underground lake where huge
stalactites and stalagmites grew from the ceiling and floor.

I never know," Harry called to Hagrid over the noise of the cart,
"what



s got an 
 in it," said Hagrid. "An
 ask me questions
just now, I think I


He did look very green, and when the cart stopped at last beside a small
door in the passage wall, Hagrid got out and had to lean against the
wall to stop his knees from trembling.

Griphook unlocked the door. A lot of green smoke came billowing out, and
as it cleared, Harry gasped. Inside were mounds of gold coins. Columns
of silver. Heaps of little bronze Knuts.


 smiled Hagrid.

All Harry's -- it was incredible. The Dursleys couldn't have known about
this or they'd have had it from him faster than blinking. How often had
they complained how much Harry cost them to keep? And all the time there
had been a small fortune belonging to him, buried deep under London.

Hagrid helped Harry pile some of it into a bag.


 he explained. 
s easy enough. Right,
that should be enough fer a couple o
ll keep the rest safe
for yeh." He turned to Griphook. "Vault seven hundred and thirteen now,
please, and can we go more slowly?"

"One speed only," said Griphook.

They were going even deeper now and gathering speed. The air became
colder and colder as they hurtled round tight corners. They went
rattling over an underground ravine, and Harry leaned over the side to
try to see what was down at the dark bottom, but Hagrid groaned and
pulled him back by the scruff of his neck.

Vault seven hundred and thirteen had no keyhole.

"Stand back," said Griphook importantly. He stroked the door gently with
one of his long fingers and it simply melted away.

"If anyone but a Gringotts goblin tried that, they
 said Griphook.


s inside?" Harry asked.

"About once every ten years," said Griphook with a rather nasty grin.

Something really extraordinary had to be inside this top security vault,
Harry was sure, and he leaned forward eagerly, expecting to see fabulous
jewels at the very least -- but at first he thought it was empty. Then
he noticed a grubby little package wrapped up in brown paper lying on
the floor. Hagrid picked it up and tucked it deep inside his coat. Harry
longed to know what it was, but knew better than to ask.

"Come on, back in this infernal cart, and don
s best if I keep me mouth shut," said Hagrid.

One wild cart ride later they stood blinking in the sunlight outside
Gringotts. Harry didn
t have to know how many Galleons there were to a
pound to know that he was holding more money than he
Might as well get yer uniform,
s Robes for All Occasions. "Listen, Harry, would yeh mind if I
slipped off fer a pick-me-up in the Leaky Cauldron? I hate them
Gringotts carts." He did still look a bit sick, so Harry entered Madam
Malkin
Hogwarts, clear?
Got the lot
here -- another young man being fitted up just now, in fact. 
Hello,
Hogwarts, too?
Yes,
My father's next door buying my books and mother's up the street
looking at wands,
Then
I'm going to drag them off to took at racing brooms. I don't see why
first years can't have their own. I think I'll bully father into getting
me one and I'll smuggle it in somehow.
Have you got your own broom?
No,
Play Quidditch at all?
No,
I do -- Father says it's a crime if I'm not picked to play for my
house, and I must say, I agree. Know what house you'll be in yet?
No,
Well, no one really knows until they get there, do they, but I know
I'll be in Slytherin, all our family have been -- imagine being in
Hufflepuff, I think I'd leave, wouldn't you?
Mmm,
I say, look at that man!
t come in.

"That
 said Harry, pleased to know something the boy didn't.




 said the boy, 
ve heard of him. He
t
he?"

"He
 said Harry. He was liking the boy less and less
every second.


s a sort of savage -- lives in a hut on the
school grounds and every now and then he gets drunk, tries to do magic,
and ends up setting fire to his bed."

"I think he
 said Harry coldly.


 said the boy, with a slight sneer. 



re dead," said Harry shortly. He didn
Oh, sorry,
But they were
our kind, weren't they?
They were a witch and wizard, if that's what you mean.
I really don't think they should let the other sort in, do you? They're
just not the same, they've never been brought up to know our ways. Some
of them have never even heard of Hogwarts until they get the letter,
imagine. I think they should keep it in the old wizarding families.
What's your surname, anyway?
That's you done, my
dear,
Well, I'll see you at Hogwarts, I suppose,
What's up?
Nothing,
Hagrid, what's Quidditch?
Blimey, Harry, I keep forgettin' how little yeh know -- not knowin'
about Quidditch!
Don't make me feel worse,
s.

"--and he said people from Muggle families shouldn



d known who yeh were -- he
 yer name if his parents are wizardin
 the best I ever saw were the only ones
with magic in 
 Muggles -- look at yer mum! Look
what she had fer a sister!"

"So what is Quidditch?"

"It
s like -- like soccer in the Muggle
world -- everyone follows Quidditch -- played up in the air on
broomsticks and there





s four. Everyone says Hufflepuff are a lot o



m in Hufflepuff" said Harry gloomily.

"Better Hufflepuff than Slytherin," said Hagrid darkly. "There
t in Slytherin.
You-Know-Who was one."

"Vol-, sorry - You-Know-Who was at Hogwarts?"

"Years an
 said Hagrid.

They bought Harry's school books in a shop called Flourish and Blotts
where the shelves were stacked to the ceiling with books as large as
paving stones bound in leather; books the size of postage stamps in
covers of silk; books full of peculiar symbols and a few books with
nothing in them at all. Even Dudley, who never read anything, would have
been wild to get his hands on some of these. Hagrid almost had to drag
Harry away from Curses and Countercurses (Bewitch Your Friends and
Befuddle Your Enemies with the Latest Revenges: Hair Loss, Jelly-Legs,
Tongue- Tying and Much, Much More) by Professor Vindictus Viridian.





m not sayin
s not a good idea, but yer not ter use magic in the
Muggle world except in very special circumstances," said Hagrid. "An
 work any of them curses yet, yeh


Hagrid wouldn't let Harry buy a solid gold cauldron, either (
), but they got a nice set of scales for weighing
potion ingredients and a collapsible brass telescope. Then they visited
the Apothecary, which was fascinating enough to make up for its horrible
smell, a mixture of bad eggs and rotted cabbages. Barrels of slimy stuff
stood on the floor; jars of herbs, dried roots, and bright powders lined
the walls; bundles of feathers, strings of fangs, and snarled claws hung
from the ceiling. While Hagrid asked the man behind the counter for a
supply of some basic potion ingredients for Harry, Harry himself
examined silver unicorn horns at twenty-one Galleons each and minuscule,
glittery-black beetle eyes (five Knuts a scoop).

Outside the Apothecary, Hagrid checked Harry's list again.


 I still haven


Harry felt himself go red.


t have to --"

"I know I don
ll get yer animal. Not a toad,
toads went outta fashion years ago, yeh
 I don
ll get yer an owl. All the kids want
owls, they
 everythin


Twenty minutes later, they left Eeylops Owl Emporium, which had been
dark and full of rustling and flickering, jewel-bright eyes. Harry now
carried a large cage that held a beautiful snowy owl, fast asleep with
her head under her wing. He couldn't stop stammering his thanks,
sounding just like Professor Quirrell.


 mention it," said Hagrid gruffly. "Don
ve had a lotta
presents from them Dursleys. Just Ollivanders left now - only place fer
wands, Ollivanders, and yeh gotta have the best wand."

A magic wand... this was what Harry had been really looking forward to.

The last shop was narrow and shabby. Peeling gold letters over the door
read Ollivanders: Makers of Fine Wands since 382 B.C. A single wand lay
on a faded purple cushion in the dusty window.

A tinkling bell rang somewhere in the depths of the shop as they stepped
inside. It was a tiny place, empty except for a single, spindly chair
that Hagrid sat on to wait. Harry felt strangely as though he had
entered a very strict library; he swallowed a lot of new questions that
had just occurred to him and looked instead at the thousands of narrow
boxes piled neatly right up to the ceiling. For some reason, the back of
his neck prickled. The very dust and silence in here seemed to tingle
with some secret magic.

"Good afternoon," said a soft voice. Harry jumped. Hagrid must have
jumped, too, because there was a loud crunching noise and he got quickly
off the spindly chair.

An old man was standing before them, his wide, pale eyes shining like
moons through the gloom of the shop.

"Hello," said Harry awkwardly.

"Ah yes," said the man. "Yes, yes. I thought I
 It wasn't a question. 
s eyes. It
seems only yesterday she was in here herself, buying her first wand. Ten
and a quarter inches long, swishy, made of willow. Nice wand for charm
work."

Mr. Ollivander moved closer to Harry. Harry wished he would blink. Those
silvery eyes were a bit creepy.

"Your father, on the other hand, favored a mahogany wand. Eleven inches.
Pliable. A little more power and excellent for transfiguration. Well, I
say your father favored it -- it


Mr. Ollivander had come so close that he and Harry were almost nose to
nose. Harry could see himself reflected in those misty eyes.


s where..."

Mr. Ollivander touched the lightning scar on Harry
I'm sorry to say I sold the wand that did it,
Thirteen-and-a-half inches. Yew. Powerful wand, very powerful, and in
the wrong hands... well, if I'd known what that wand was going out into
the world to do....
s relief, spotted Hagrid.

"Rubeus! Rubeus Hagrid! How nice to see you again.... Oak, sixteen
inches, rather bendy, wasn



 said Hagrid.


 said Mr. Ollivander, suddenly stern.


 said Hagrid, shuffling his feet. 
ve still
got the pieces, though," he added brightly.

"But you don
 said Mr. Ollivander sharply.


 said Hagrid quickly. Harry noticed he gripped his pink
umbrella very tightly as he spoke.


 said Mr. Ollivander, giving Hagrid a piercing look. 
 He pulled a long tape measure with silver
markings out of his pocket. 



m right-handed," said Harry.

"Hold out your arm. That
 He measured Harry from shoulder to
finger, then wrist to elbow, shoulder to floor, knee to armpit and round
his head. As he measured, he said, 
s wand."

Harry suddenly realized that the tape measure, which was measuring
between his nostrils, was doing this on its own. Mr. Ollivander was
flitting around the shelves, taking down boxes.

"That will do," he said, and the tape measure crumpled into a heap on
the floor. "Right then, Mr. Potter. Try this one. Beechwood and dragon
heartstring. Nine inches. Nice and flexible. just take it and give it a
wave."

Harry took the wand and (feeling foolish) waved it around a bit, but Mr.
Ollivander snatched it out of his hand almost at once.

"Maple and phoenix feather. Seven inches. Quite whippy. Try --"

Harry tried -- but he had hardly raised the wand when it, too, was
snatched back by Mr. Ollivander.

"No, no -here, ebony and unicorn hair, eight and a half inches, springy.
Go on, go on, try it out."

Harry tried. And tried. He had no idea what Mr. Ollivander was waiting
for. The pile of tried wands was mounting higher and higher on the
spindly chair, but the more wands Mr. Ollivander pulled from the
shelves, the happier he seemed to become.

"Tricky customer, eh? Not to worry, we


Harry took the wand. He felt a sudden warmth in his fingers. He raised
the wand above his head, brought it swishing down through the dusty air
and a stream of red and gold sparks shot from the end like a firework,
throwing dancing spots of light on to the walls. Hagrid whooped and
clapped and Mr. Ollivander cried, 


He put Harry's wand back into its box and wrapped it in brown paper,
still muttering, 
Sorry,
but what's curious?
I remember every wand I've ever sold, Mr. Potter. Every single wand. It
so happens that the phoenix whose tail feather is in your wand, gave
another feather -- just one other. It is very curious indeed that you
should be destined for this wand when its brother why, its brother gave
you that scar.
Yes, thirteen-and-a-half inches. Yew. Curious indeed how these things
happen. The wand chooses the wizard, remember.... I think we must expect
great things from you, Mr. Potter.... After all, He-
Who-Must-Not-Be-Named did great things -- terrible, yes, but great.
t sure he liked Mr. Ollivander too much. He paid
seven gold Galleons for his wand, and Mr. Ollivander bowed them from his
shop.

The late afternoon sun hung low in the sky as Harry and Hagrid made
their way back down Diagon Alley, back through the wall, back through
the Leaky Cauldron, now empty. Harry didn
t even notice how much people were gawking at
them on the Underground, laden as they were with all their funny-shaped
packages, with the snowy owl asleep in its cage on Harry
Got time fer a bite to eat before yer train leaves,
You all right, Harry? Yer very quiet,
t sure he could explain. He
Everyone thinks I'm special,
All those people in the
Leaky Cauldron, Professor Quirrell, Mr. Ollivander... but I don't know
anything about magic at all. How can they expect great things? I'm
famous and I can't even remember what I'm famous for. I don't know what
happened when Vol-, sorry -- I mean, the night my parents died.
Don' you worry, Harry. You'll learn fast enough. Everyone starts at the
beginning at Hogwarts, you'll be just fine. just be yerself. I know it's
hard. Yeh've been singled out, an' that's always hard. But yeh'll have a
great time at Hogwarts -- I did -- still do, 'smatter of fact.
Yer ticket fer Hogwarts, 
First o' September -- King's Cross
-- it's all on yer ticket. Any problems with the Dursleys, send me a
letter with yer owl, she'll know where to find me.... See yeh soon,
Harry.
s last month with the Dursleys wasn
t stay in the same room, while Aunt Petunia
and Uncle Vernon didn
t speak to him at all.
Half terrified, half furious, they acted as though any chair with Harry
in it were empty. Although this was an improvement in many ways, it did
become a bit depressing after a while.

Harry kept to his room, with his new owl for company. He had decided to
call her Hedwig, a name he had found in A History of Magic. His school
books were very interesting. He lay on his bed reading late into the
night, Hedwig swooping in and out of the open window as she pleased. It
was lucky that Aunt Petunia didn
d better speak to his aunt and
uncle about getting to King
Er -- Uncle Vernon?
Er -- I need to be at King's Cross tomorrow to -- to go to Hogwarts.
Would it be all right if you gave me a lift?
Thank you.
Funny way to get to a wizards' school, the train. Magic carpets all got
punctures, have they?
t say anything.

"Where is this school, anyway?"

"I don
 said Harry, realizing this for the first time. He pulled
the ticket Hagrid had given him out of his pocket.


clock," he read.

His aunt and uncle stared.

"Platform what?"

"Nine and three-quarters."

"Don
 said Uncle Vernon. 



s on my ticket."

"Barking," said Uncle Vernon, "howling mad, the lot of them. You
ll take you to King
re going up
to London tomorrow anyway, or I wouldn



 Harry asked, trying to keep things
friendly.


 growled Uncle Vernon. 


Harry woke at five o'clock the next morning and was too excited and
nervous to go back to sleep. He got up and pulled on his jeans because
he didn't want to walk into the station in his wizard's robes -- he'd
change on the train. He checked his Hogwarts list yet again to make sure
he had everything he needed, saw that Hedwig was shut safely in her
cage, and then paced the room, waiting for the Dursleys to get up. Two
hours later, Harry's huge, heavy trunk had been loaded into the
Dursleys' car, Aunt Petunia had talked Dudley into sitting next to
Harry, and they had set off.

They reached King's Cross at half past ten. Uncle Vernon dumped Harry's
trunk onto a cart and wheeled it into the station for him. Harry thought
this was strangely kind until Uncle Vernon stopped dead, facing the
platforms with a nasty grin on his face.


t seem to have built it
yet, do they?"

He was quite right, of course. There was a big plastic number nine over
one platform and a big plastic number ten over the one next to it, and
in the middle, nothing at all.

"Have a good term," said Uncle Vernon with an even nastier smile. He
left without another word. Harry turned and saw the Dursleys drive away.
All three of them were laughing. Harry
d have to ask someone.

He stopped a passing guard, but didn
t even tell him what part of the country it was in, he started to
get annoyed, as though Harry was being stupid on purpose. Getting
desperate, Harry asked for the train that left at eleven o
t one. In the end the guard strode away,
muttering about time wasters. Harry was now trying hard not to panic.
According to the large clock over the arrivals board, he had ten minutes
left to get on the train to Hogwarts and he had no idea how to do it; he
was stranded in the middle of a station with a trunk he could hardly
lift, a pocket full of wizard money, and a large owl.

Hagrid must have forgotten to tell him something you had to do, like
tapping the third brick on the left to get into Diagon Alley. He
wondered if he should get out his wand and start tapping the ticket
inspector
-- packed with Muggles, of course --
s in front of him -- and they had an owl.

Heart hammering, Harry pushed his cart after them. They stopped and so
did he, just near enough to hear what they were saying.

"Now, what
 said the boys' mother.


 piped a small girl, also red-headed, who was
holding her hand, 
t I go... "

"You


What looked like the oldest boy marched toward platforms nine and ten.
Harry watched, careful not to blink in case he missed it -- but just as
the boy reached the dividing barrier between the two platforms, a large
crowd of tourists came swarming in front of him and by the time the last
backpack had cleared away, the boy had vanished.


 the plump woman said.


m not Fred, I
 said the boy. 
m George?"

"Sorry, George, dear."

"Only joking, I am Fred," said the boy, and off he went. His twin called
after him to hurry up, and he must have done so, because a second later,
he had gone -- but how had he done it?

Now the third brother was walking briskly toward the barrier he was
almost there -- and then, quite suddenly, he wasn
Excuse me,
Hello, dear,
First time at Hogwarts? Ron's new, too.
Yes,
The thing is -- the thing is, I don't know how to
--
How to get onto the platform?
Not to worry,
All you have to do is walk straight at the
barrier between platforms nine and ten. Don't stop and don't be scared
you'll crash into it, that's very important. Best do it at a bit of a
run if you're nervous. Go on, go now before Ron.
Er -- okay,
d be in trouble -- leaning forward
on his cart, he broke into a heavy run -- the barrier was coming nearer
and nearer -- he wouldn
t come... he kept on running... he opened his eyes. A scarlet
steam engine was waiting next to a platform packed with people. A sign
overhead said Hogwarts Express, eleven O
Gran, I've lost my toad
again.
Oh, Neville,
Give us a look, Lee, go on.
Want a hand?
d followed through
the barrier.

"Yes, please," Harry panted.

"Oy, Fred! C


With the twins' help, Harry's trunk was at last tucked away in a corner
of the compartment.


 said Harry, pushing his sweaty hair out of his eyes.


s that?" said one of the twins suddenly, pointing at Harry
Blimey,
Are you


 said the first twin. 
t you?" he added to Harry.

"What?" said Harry.

"Harry Potter, "chorused the twins.

"Oh, him," said Harry. "I mean, yes, I am."

The two boys gawked at him, and Harry felt himself turning red. Then, to
his relief, a voice came floating in through the train
Fred? George? Are you there?
Coming, Mom.
Ron, you've got something on your nose.
Mom -- geroff
Aaah, has ickle Ronnie got somefink on his nosie?
Shut up,
Where's Percy?
He's coming now.
Can't stay long, Mother,
I'm up front, the prefects have got
two compartments to themselves --
Oh, are you a prefect, Percy?
You should have said something, we had no idea.
Hang on, I think I remember him saying something about it,
Once --
Or twice --
A minute --
All summer --
Oh, shut up,
How come Percy gets new robes, anyway?
Because he's a prefect,
All right, dear,
well, have a good term -- send me an owl when you get there.
Now, you two -- this year, you behave yourselves. If I get one more owl
telling me you've -- you've blown up a toilet or --
Blown up a toilet? We've never blown up a toilet.
Great idea though, thanks, Mom.
It's not funny. And look after Ron.
Don't worry, ickle Ronniekins is safe with us.
Shut up,
Hey, Mom, guess what? Guess who we just met on the train?
t see him looking.

"You know that black-haired boy who was near us in the station? Know who
he is?"

"Who?"

"Harry Potter!"

Harry heard the little girl
Oh, Mom, can I go on the train and see him, Mom, eh please....
You've already seen him, Ginny, and the poor boy isn't something you
goggle at in a zoo. Is he really, Fred? How do you know?
Asked him. Saw his scar. It's really there - like lightning.
Poor dear - no wonder he was alone, I wondered. He was ever so polite
when he asked how to get onto the platform.
Never mind that, do you think he remembers what You-Know-Who looks
like?
I forbid you to ask him, Fred. No, don't you dare. As though he needs
reminding of that on his first day at school.
All right, keep your hair on.
Hurry up!
Don't, Ginny, we'll send you loads of owls.
We'll send you a Hogwarts toilet seat.
George!
Only joking, Mom.
 mother waving and their
sister, half laughing, half crying, running to keep up with the train
until it gathered too much speed, then she fell back and waved.

Harry watched the girl and her mother disappear as the train rounded the
corner. Houses flashed past the window. Harry felt a great leap of
excitement. He didn
Anyone sitting there?
Everywhere else is full.
t looked. Harry saw
he still had a black mark on his nose.

"Hey, Ron."

The twins were back.

"Listen, we
s got a
giant tarantula down there."

"Right," mumbled Ron.

"Harry," said the other twin, "did we introduce ourselves? Fred and
George Weasley. And this is Ron, our brother. See you later, then.

"Bye," said Harry and Ron. The twins slid the compartment door shut
behind them.

"Are you really Harry Potter?" Ron blurted out.

Harry nodded.

"Oh -well, I thought it might be one of Fred and George
 said
Ron. 


He pointed at Harry's forehead.

Harry pulled back his bangs to show the lightning scar. Ron stared.


s where You-Know-Who

"Yes," said Harry, "but I can



 said Ron eagerly.





 said Ron. He sat and stared at Harry for a few moments, then, as
though he had suddenly realized what he was doing, he looked quickly out
of the window again.


 asked Harry, who found Ron just as
interesting as Ron found him.


 said Ron. 
s got a second cousin
who





The Weasleys were clearly one of those old wizarding families the pale
boy in Diagon Alley had talked about.


 said Ron. 



d had three wizard brothers."

"Five," said Ron. For some reason, he was looking gloomy. "I
ve got a lot to live up
to. Bill and Charlie have already left -- Bill was head boy and Charlie
was captain of Quidditch. Now Percy
re really funny. Everyone expects me to do as well as the others,
but if I do, it
ve got Bill
s old wand, and Percy


Ron reached inside his jacket and pulled out a fat gray rat, which was
asleep.


s Scabbers and he
t aff
-- I mean, I got Scabbers instead."

Ron
d said too much, because he
went back to staring out of the window.

Harry didn
d never had any money in his life until a
month ago, and he told Ron so, all about having to wear Dudley
... and until Hagrid told me, I didn't know anything about be ing a
wizard or about my parents or Voldemort
What?
You said You-Know-Who's name!
I'd have thought you, of all people --
I'm not trying to be brave or anything, saying the name,
t. See what I mean? I
 he added, voicing for the first time something that
had been worrying him a lot lately, 
m the worst in the class."

"You won
s loads of people who come from Muggle families and
they learn quick enough."

While they had been talking, the train had carried them out of London.
Now they were speeding past fields full of cows and sheep. They were
quiet for a time, watching the fields and lanes flick past.

Around half past twelve there was a great clattering outside in the
corridor and a smiling, dimpled woman slid back their door and said,
"Anything off the cart, dears?"

Harry, who hadn
s ears
went pink again and he muttered that he
t have Mars Bars. What
she did have were Bettie Bott
s Best
Blowing Gum, Chocolate Frogs. Pumpkin Pasties, Cauldron Cakes, Licorice
Wands, and a number of other strange things Harry had never seen in his
life. Not wanting to miss anything, he got some of everything and paid
the woman eleven silver Sickles and seven bronze Knuts.

Ron stared as Harry brought it all back in to the compartment and tipped
it onto an empty seat.

"Hungry, are you?"

"Starving," said Harry, taking a large bite out of a pumpkin pasty.

Ron had taken out a lumpy package and unwrapped it. There were four
sandwiches inside. He pulled one of them apart and said, "She always
forgets I don



 said Harry, holding up a pasty. 



t want this, it
 said Ron. 
t got much
time," he added quickly, "you know, with five of us."

"Go on, have a pasty," said Harry, who had never had anything to share
before or, indeed, anyone to share it with. It was a nice feeling,
sitting there with Ron, eating their way through all Harry
What are these?
They're not really frogs, are they?
No,
But see what the card is. I'm missing Agrippa.
What?
Oh, of course, you wouldn't know -- Chocolate Frogs have cards, inside
them, you know, to collect -- famous witches and wizards. I've got about
five hundred, but I haven't got Agrippa or Ptolemy.
s face. He wore half- moon glasses, had a long, crooked nose, and
flowing silver hair, beard, and mustache. Underneath the picture was the
name Albus Dumbledore.

"So this is Dumbledore!" said Harry.

"Don
d never heard of Dumbledore!" said Ron. "Can I have a
frog? I might get Agrippa -- thanks

Harry turned over his card and read:

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

CURRENTLY HEADMASTER OF HOGWARTS

Considered by many the greatest wizard of modern times, Dumbledore is
particularly famous for his defeat of the dark wizard Grindelwald in
1945, for the discovery of the twelve uses of dragon
s face had disappeared.

"He



t expect him to hang around all day," said Ron. "He
ve got Morgana again and I


Ron's eyes strayed to the pile of Chocolate Frogs waiting to be
unwrapped.


 said Harry. 



t move at all?" Ron sounded amazed. "weird!"

Harry stared as Dumbledore sidled back into the picture on his card and
gave him a small smile. Ron was more interested in eating the frogs than
looking at the Famous Witches and Wizards cards, but Harry couldn
s Every Flavor Beans.

"You want to be careful with those," Ron warned Harry. "When they say
every flavor, they mean every flavor -- you know, you get all the
ordinary ones like chocolate and peppermint and mar- malade, but then
you can get spinach and liver and tripe. George reckons he had a booger-
flavored one once."

Ron picked up a green bean, looked at it carefully, and bit into a
corner.

"Bleaaargh -- see? Sprouts."

They had a good time eating the Every Flavor Beans. Harry got toast,
coconut, baked bean, strawberry, curry, grass, coffee, sardine, and was
even brave enough to nibble the end off a funny gray one Ron wouldn
Sorry,
but have you seen a toad at all?
I've lost him! He keeps getting
away from me!
He'll turn up,
Yes,
Well, if you see him...
Don't know why he's so bothered,
If I'd brought a toad I'd
lose it as quick as I could. Mind you, I brought Scabbers, so I can't
talk.
s lap.

"He might have died and you wouldn
 said Ron in
disgust. 
t work. I


He rummaged around in his trunk and pulled out a very battered-looking
wand. It was chipped in places and something white was glinting at the
end.


s nearly poking out. Anyway

He had just raised his 
Has anyone seen a toad? Neville's lost one,
We've already told him we haven't seen it,
t listening, she was looking at the wand in his hand.

"Oh, are you doing magic? Let


She sat down. Ron looked taken aback.




He cleared his throat.




He waved his wand, but nothing happened. Scabbers stayed gray and fast
asleep.


s a real spell?" said the girl. "Well, it
ve tried a few simple spells just for practice and it
s magic at all, it was ever such
a surprise when I got my letter, but I was ever so pleased, of course, I
mean, it
ve heard --
I
m Hermione Granger, by the way, who are you.

She said all this very fast.

Harry looked at Ron, and was relieved to see by his stunned face that he
hadn
I'm Ron Weasley,
Harry Potter,
Are you really?
I know all about you, of course -- I
got a few extra books. for background reading, and you're in Modern
Magical History and The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts and Great
Wizarding Events of the Twentieth Century.


 said Harry, feeling dazed.


t you know, I
 said Hermione. 
ll be in?
I
m in Gryffindor, it sounds by far
the best; I hear Dumbledore himself was in it, but I suppose Ravenclaw
wouldn
d better go and look for Neville
ll be there
soon."

And she left, taking the toadless boy with her.

"Whatever house I
s not in it," said Ron. He threw his
wand back into his trunk. "Stupid spell -- George gave it to me, bet he
knew it was a dud."

"What house are your brothers in?" asked Harry.

"Gryffindor," said Ron. Gloom seemed to be settling on him again. "Mom
and Dad were in it, too. I don
ll say if I
t suppose Ravenclaw would be too bad, but imagine if they put me in
Slytherin."

"That



 said Ron. He flopped back into his seat, looking depressed.


 whiskers are a bit lighter,"
said Harry, trying to take Ron
So what do your
oldest brothers do now that they've left, anyway?
d finished school.

"Charlie
s in Africa doing
something for Gringotts," said Ron. "Did you hear about

Gringotts? It
t suppose you
get that with the Muggles -- someone tried to rob a high security
vault."

Harry stared.

"Really? What happened to them?"

"Nothing, that
s such big news. They haven
ve been a powerful Dark wizard to get round Gringotts,
but they don
s what
Course,
everyone gets scared when something like this happens in case
You-Know-Who


Harry turned this news over in his mind. He was starting to get a
prickle of fear every time You- Know-Who was mentioned. He supposed this
was all part of entering the magical world, but it had been a lot more
comfortable saying 
 without worrying.


s your Quidditch team?" Ron asked.

"Er -- I don
 Harry confessed.


 Ron looked dumbfounded. 
s the best game in the
world --" And he was off, explaining all about the four balls and the
positions of the seven players, describing famous games he
d like to get if he had the
money. He was just taking Harry through the finer points of the game
when the compartment door slid open yet again, but it wasn
s robe shop. He was looking at Harry with
a lot more interest than he
Is it true?
They're saying all down the train that Harry
Potter's in this compartment. So it's you, is it?
Yes,
Oh, this is Crabbe and this is Goyle,
And my name's Malfoy, Draco Malfoy.
Think my name's funny, do you? No need to ask who you are. My father
told me all the Weasleys have red hair, freckles, and more children than
they can afford.
You'll soon find out some wizarding families
are much better than others, Potter. You don't want to go making friends
with the wrong sort. I can help you there.
s, but Harry didn
I think I can tell who the wrong sort are for myself, thanks,
t go red, but a pink tinge appeared in his pale
cheeks.

"I
 he said slowly. 
re a
bit politer you
t know
what was good for them, either. You hang around with riffraff like the
Weasleys and that Hagrid, and it


Both Harry and Ron stood up.


 Ron said, his face as red as his hair.


re going to fight us, are you?" Malfoy sneered.

"Unless you get out now," said Harry, more bravely than he felt, because
Crabbe and Goyle were a lot bigger than him or Ron.

"But we don
ve eaten all our food
and you still seem to have some."

Goyle reached toward the Chocolate Frogs next to Ron - Ron leapt
forward, but before he
s knuckle - Crabbe and Malfoy backed away as Goyle swung
Scabbers round and round, howling, and when Scabbets finally flew off
and hit the window, all three of them disappeared at once. Perhaps they
thought there were more rats lurking among the sweets, or perhaps they
What has been going on?
s been knocked out," Ron said to Harry. He looked closer at
Scabbers. "No -- I don
s gone back to sleep-"

And so he had.

"You


Harry explained about their meeting in Diagon Alley.


ve heard of his family," said Ron darkly. "They were some of the
first to come back to our side after You-Know-Who disappeared. Said
they
t believe it. He says Malfoy
t need an excuse to go over to the Dark Side." He turned to
Hermione. "Can we help you with something?"

"You
ve just been up to the
front to ask the conductor, and he says we
t
been fighting, have you? You



 said Ron, scowling at her. 



 said Hermione in a
sniffy voice. 
ve got dirt on your nose, by the way, did you
know?"

Ron glared at her as she left. Harry peered out of the window. It was
getting dark. He could see mountains and forests under a deep purple
sky. The train did seem to be slowing down.

He and Ron took off their jackets and pulled on their long black robes.
Ron
We will be reaching Hogwarts in five
minutes' time. Please leave your luggage on the train, it will be taken
to the school separately.
s stomach lurched with nerves and Ron, he saw, looked pale under
his freckles. They crammed their pockets with the last of the sweets and
joined the crowd thronging the corridor.

The train slowed right down and finally stopped. People pushed their way
toward the door and out on to a tiny, dark platform. Harry shivered in
the cold night air. Then a lamp came bobbing over the heads of the
students, and Harry heard a familiar voice: "Firs
 years
over here! All right there, Harry?"

Hagrid
C'mon, follow me -- any more firs' years? Mind yer step, now! Firs'
years follow me!
Ye' all get yer firs' sight o' Hogwarts in a sec,
jus' round this bend here.
Oooooh!
No more'n four to a boat!
Everyone in?
Right then -- FORWARD!
Heads down!
Oy, you there! Is this your toad?
Trevor!
s lamp, coming out at
last onto smooth, damp grass right in the shadow of the castle.

They walked up a flight of stone steps and crowded around the huge, Oak
front door.

"Everyone here? You there, still got yer toad?"

Hagrid raised a gigantic fist and knocked three times on the castle
door.


CHAPTER SEVEN

THE SORTING HAT

The door swung open at once. A tall, black-haired witch in emerald-green
robes stood there. She had a very stern face and Harry
The firs' years, Professor McGonagall,
Thank you, Hagrid. I will take them from here.
 house in it. The stone walls were lit
with flaming torches like the ones at Gringotts, the ceiling was too
high to make out, and a magnificent marble staircase facing them led to
the upper floors.

They followed Professor McGonagall across the flagged stone floor. Harry
could hear the drone of hundreds of voices from a doorway to the right
-the rest of the school must already be here -- but Professor McGonagall
showed the first years into a small, empty chamber off the hall. They
crowded in, standing rather closer together than they would usually have
done, peering about nervously.

"Welcome to Hogwarts," said Professor McGonagall. "The start-of-term
banquet will begin shortly, but before you take your seats in the Great
Hall, you will be sorted into your houses. The Sorting is a very
important ceremony because, while you are here, your house will be
something like your family within Hogwarts. You will have classes with
the rest of your house, sleep in your house dormitory, and spend free
time in your house common room.

"The four houses are called Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, and
Slytherin. Each house has its own noble history and each has produced
outstanding witches and wizards. While you are at Hogwarts, your
triumphs will earn your house points, while any rulebreaking will lose
house points. At the end of the year, the house with the most points is
awarded the house cup, a great honor. I hope each of you will be a
credit to whichever house becomes yours.

"The Sorting Ceremony will take place in a few minutes in front of the
rest of the school. I suggest you all smarten yourselves up as much as
you can while you are waiting."

Her eyes lingered for a moment on Neville
s smudged nose. Harry nervously tried to
flatten his hair.

"I shall return when we are ready for you," said Professor McGonagall.
"Please wait quietly."

She left the chamber. Harry swallowed.

"How exactly do they sort us into houses?" he asked Ron.

"Some sort of test, I think. Fred said it hurts a lot, but I think he
was joking."

Harry
t know any magic yet -- what on earth would he have
to do? He hadn
d learned and wondering which one
she
d never been more
nervous, never, not even when he
d somehow turned his teacher
What the --?
Forgive and forget, I say, we ought to give him
a second chance --
My dear Friar, haven't we given Peeves all the chances he deserves? He
gives us all a bad name and you know, he's not really even a ghost -- I
say, what are you all doing here?
New students!
About to be
Sorted, I suppose?
Hope to see you in Hufflepuff!
My old house, you
know.
Move along now,
The Sorting Ceremony's about to
start.
Now, form a line,
and
follow me.
Its bewitched to look like the sky outside. I read
about it in Hogwarts, A History.
t simply open on to the heavens.

Harry quickly looked down again as Professor McGonagall silently placed
a four-legged stool in front of the first years. On top of the stool she
put a pointed wizard
t have let it in the house.

Maybe they had to try and get a rabbit out of it, Harry thought wildly,
that seemed the sort of thing -- noticing that everyone in the hall was
now staring at the hat, he stared at it, too. For a few seconds, there
was complete silence. Then the hat twitched. A rip near the brim opened
wide like a mouth -- and the hat began to sing:

"Oh, you may not think I
t judge on what you see,

I
m the Hogwarts Sorting Hat

And I can cap them all.

There
t see,

So try me on and I will tell you

Where you ought to be.

You might belong in Gryffindor,

Where dwell the brave at heart,

Their daring, nerve, and chivalry Set Gryffindors apart;

You might belong in Hufflepuff,

Where they are just and loyal,

Those patient Hufflepuffis are true And unafraid of toil;

Or yet in wise old Ravenclaw,

if you
ll make your real friends,

Those cunning folk use any means

To achieve their ends.

So put me on! Don
t get in a flap!

You
m a Thinking Cap!"

The whole hall burst into applause as the hat finished its song. It
bowed to each of the four tables and then became quite still again.

"So we
 Ron whispered to Harry. 
ll
kill Fred, he was going on about wrestling a troll."

Harry. smiled weakly. Yes, trying on the hat was a lot better than
having to do a spell, but he did wish they could have tried it on
without everyone watching. The hat seemed to be asking rather alot;
Harry didn
When I call your name, you will put on the hat and sit on the stool to
be sorted,
Abbott, Hannah!
HUFFLEPUFF!
Bones, Susan!
HUFFLEPUFF!
Boot, Terry!
RAVENCLAW!
 Brocklehurst, Mandy
Brown, Lavender
s twin brothers catcalling.

"Bulstrode, Millicent" then became a Slytherin. Perhaps it was Harry
d heard about Slytherin, but he thought they
looked like an unpleasant lot. He was starting to feel definitely sick
now. He remembered being picked for teams during gym at his old school.
He had always been last to be chosen, not because he was no good, but
because no one wanted Dudley to think they liked him.

"Finch-Fletchley, Justin!"

"HUFFLEPUFF!"

Sometimes, Harry noticed, the hat shouted out the house at once, but at
others it took a little while to decide. "Finnigan, Seamus," the
sandy-haired boy next to Harry in the line, sat on the stool for almost
a whole minute before the hat declared him a Gryffindor.

"Granger, Hermione!"

Hermione almost ran to the stool and jammed the hat eagerly on her head.

"GRYFFINDOR!" shouted the hat. Ron groaned.

A horrible thought struck Harry, as horrible thoughts always do when
you
t chosen at all? What if he just
sat there with the hat over his eyes for ages, until Professor
McGonagall jerked it off his head and said there had obviously been a
mistake and he
GRYFFINDOR,
MacDougal, Morag.
SLYTHERIN!
t many people left now. "Moon" "Nott" "Parkinson" then a
pair of twin girls, "Patil" and "Patil" then "Perks, Sally-Anne" and
then, at last -- "Potter, Harry!"

As Harry stepped forward, whispers suddenly broke out like little
hissing fires all over the hall.

"Potter, did she say?"

The Harry Potter?"

The last thing Harry saw before the hat dropped over his eyes was the
hall full of people craning to get a good look at him. Next second he
was looking at the black inside of the hat. He waited.

Hmm," said a small voice in his ear. "Difficult. Very difficult. Plenty
of courage, I see. Not a bad mind either. There
s interesting....
So where shall I put you?"

Harry gripped the edges of the stool and thought, Not Slytherin, not
Slytherin.

"Not Slytherin, eh?" said the small voice. "Are you sure? You could be
great, you know, it
re sure
-- better be GRYFFINDOR!"

Harry heard the hat shout the last word to the whole hall. He took off
the hat and walked shakily toward the Gryffindor table. He was so
relieved to have been chosen and not put in Slytherin, he hardly noticed
that he was getting the loudest cheer yet. Percy the Prefect got up and
shook his hand vigorously, while the Weasley twins yelled, "We got
Potter! We got Potter!" Harry sat down opposite the ghost in the ruff
he
d just plunged it into a bucket of ice-cold water.

He could see the High Table properly now. At the end nearest him sat
Hagrid, who caught his eye and gave him the thumbs up. Harry grinned
back. And there, in the center of the High Table, in a large gold chair,
sat Albus Dumbledore. Harry recognized him at once from the card he
s silver hair
was the only thing in the whole hall that shone as brightly as the
ghosts. Harry spotted Professor Quirtell, too, the nervous young man
from the Leaky Cauldron. He was looking very peculiar in a large purple
turban.

And now there were only three people left to be sorted. "Thomas, Dean,"
a Black boy even taller than Ron, joined Harry at the Gryffindor table.
"Turpin, Lisa," became a Ravenclaw and then it was Ron
GRYFFINDOR!
Well done, Ron, excellent,
Zabini, Blaise,
Welcome,
Welcome to a new year at Hogwarts! Before we begin
our banquet, I would like to say a few words. And here they are: Nitwit!
Blubber! Oddment! Tweak!




He sat back down. Everybody clapped and cheered. Harry didn't know
whether to laugh or not.


 he asked Percy uncertainly.


 said Percy airily. 
s a genius! Best wizard in the world! But
he is a bit mad, yes. Potatoes, Harry?"

Harry
d never been
allowed to eat as much as he liked. Dudley had always taken anything
that Harry really wanted, even if It made him sick. Harry piled his
plate with a bit of everything except the peppermints and began to eat.
It was all delicious.

"That does look good," said the ghost in the ruff sadly, watching Harry
cut up his steak,

"Can


I haven't eaten for nearly four hundred years,
I don't
need to, of course, but one does miss it. I don't think I've in troduced
myself? Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington at your service. Resident ghost
of Gryffindor Tower.
I know who you are!
My brothers told me about you
-- you're Nearly Headless Nick!
I would prefer you to call me Sir Nicholas de Mimsy --
Nearly Headless? How can you be nearly headless?
t
going at all the way he wanted.

"Like this," he said irritably. He seized his left ear and pulled. His
whole head swung off his neck and fell onto his shoulder as if it was on
a hinge. Someone had obviously tried to behead him, but not done it
properly. Looking pleased at the stunned looks on their faces, Nearly
Headless Nick flipped his head back onto his neck, coughed, and said,
"So -- new Gryffindors! I hope you
s becoming almost unbearable -- he


Harry looked over at the Slytherin table and saw a horrible ghost
sitting there, with blank staring eyes, a gaunt face, and robes stained
with silver blood. He was right next to Malfoy who, Harry was pleased to
see, didn't look too pleased with the seating arrangements.


 asked Seamus with great interest.


ve never asked," said Nearly Headless Nick delicately.

When everyone had eaten as much as they could, the remains of the food
faded from the plates, leaving them sparkling clean as before. A moment
later the desserts appeared. Blocks of ice cream in every flavor you
could think of, apple pies, treacle tarts, chocolate eclairs and jam
doughnuts, trifle, strawberries, Jell-O, rice pudding -- "

As Harry helped himself to a treacle tart, the talk turned to their
families.

"I
 said Seamus. 
s a Muggle. Mom didn
til after they were married. Bit of a nasty shock
for him."

The others laughed.

"What about you, Neville?" said Ron.

"Well, my gran brought me up and she
 said Neville, 


On Harry's other side, Percy Weasley and Hermione were talking about
lessons (
s so much to learn, I
s supposed to be very difficult-";
"You
).

Harry, who was starting to feel warm and sleepy, looked up at

the High Table again. Hagrid was drinking deeply from his goblet.
Professor McGonagall was talking to Professor Dumbledore. Professor
Quirrell, in his absurd turban, was talking to a teacher with greasy
black hair, a hooked nose, and sallow skin.

It happened very suddenly. The hook-nosed teacher looked past Quirrell's
turban straight into Harry's eyes -- and a sharp, hot pain shot across
the scar on Harry's forehead.


 Harry clapped a hand to his head.


 asked Percy.




The pain had gone as quickly as it had come. Harder to shake off was the
feeling Harry had gotten from the teacher's look -- a feeling that he
didn't like Harry at all.


s that teacher talking to Professor Quirrell?" he asked Percy.

"Oh, you know Quirrell already, do you? No wonder he
s Professor Snape. He teaches Potions, but he doesn
s after Quirrell


Harry watched Snape for a while, but Snape didn't look at him again.

At last, the desserts too disappeared, and Professor Dumbledore got to
his feet again. The hall fell silent.


First years should note that the forest on the grounds is forbidden to
all pupils. And a few of our older students would do well to remember
that as well.
s twinkling eyes flashed in the direction of the Weasley
twins.

"I have also been asked by Mr. Filch, the caretaker, to remind you all
that no magic should be used between classes in the corridors.

"Quidditch trials will be held in the second week of the term. Anyone
interested in playing for their house teams should contact Madam Hooch.

"And finally, I must tell you that this year, the third-floor corridor
on the right-hand side is out of bounds to everyone who does not wish to
die a very painful death."

Harry laughed, but he was one of the few who did.

"He
 he muttered to Percy.


 said Percy, frowning at Dumbledore. 
s odd, because he
usually gives us a reason why we
s full of dangerous beasts, everyone knows that. I do think he
might have told us prefects, at least."

"And now, before we go to bed, let us sing the school song!" cried
Dumbledore. Harry noticed that the other teachers
Everyone pick their favorite tune,
and off we go!
Hogwarts, Hogwarts, Hoggy Warty Hogwarts,

Teach us something please,

Whether we be old and bald

Or young with scabby knees,

Our heads could do with filling

With some interesting stuff,

For now they're bare and full of air,

Dead flies and bits of fluff,

So teach us things worth knowing,

Bring back what we've forgot,

just do your best, we'll do the rest,

And learn until our brains all rot.

Everybody finished the song at different times. At last, only the
Weasley twins were left singing along to a very slow funeral march.
Dumbledore conducted their last few lines with his wand and when they
had finished, he was one of those who clapped loudest.


 he said, wiping his eyes. 


The Gryffindor first years followed Percy through the chattering crowds,
out of the Great Hall, and up the marble staircase. Harry's legs were
like lead again, but only because he was so tired and full of food. He
was too sleepy even to be surprised that the people in the portraits
along the corridors whispered and pointed as they passed, or that twice
Percy led them through doorways hidden behind sliding panels and hanging
tapestries. They climbed more staircases, yawning and dragging their
feet, and Harry was just wondering how much farther they had to go when
they came to a sudden halt.

A bundle of walking sticks was floating in midair ahead of them, and as
Percy took a step toward them they started throwing themselves at him.


 Percy whispered to the first years. 
 He raised
his voice, 


A loud, rude sound, like the air being let out of a balloon, answered.




There was a pop, and a little man with wicked, dark eyes and a wide
mouth appeared, floating cross- legged in the air, clutching the walking
sticks.


 he said, with an evil cackle. 


He swooped suddenly at them. They all ducked.


ll hear about this, I mean it!" barked
Percy.

Peeves stuck out his tongue and vanished, dropping the walking sticks on
Neville
You want to watch out for Peeves,
The Bloody Baron's the only one who can control him, he won't even
listen to us prefects. Here we are.
Password?
Caput Draconis,
 Great food, isn't it?
Get off, Scabbers! He's chewing my sheets.
d had any of the treacle tart, but he
fell asleep almost at once.

Perhaps Harry had eaten a bit too much, because he had a very strange
dream. He was wearing Professor Quirrell
t want to be in Slytherin; it
got heavier and heavier; he tried to pull it off but it tightened
painfully -- and there was Malfoy, laughing at him as he struggled with
it -then Malfoy turned into the hook-nosed teacher, Snape, whose laugh
became high and cold -- there was a burst of green light and Harry woke,
sweating and shaking.

He rolled over and fell asleep again, and when he woke next day, he
didn

















Whispers followed Harry from the moment he left his dormitory the next
day. People lining up outside classrooms stood on tiptoe to get a look
at him, or doubled back to pass him in the corridors again, staring.
Harry wished they wouldn't, because he was trying to concentrate on
finding his way to classes.

There were a hundred and forty-two staircases at Hogwarts: wide,
sweeping ones; narrow, rickety ones; some that led somewhere different
on a Friday; some with a vanishing step halfway up that you had to
remember to jump. Then there were doors that wouldn't open unless you
asked politely, or tickled them in exactly the right place, and doors
that weren't really doors at all, but solid walls just pretending. It
was also very hard to remember where anything was, because it all seemed
to move around a lot. The people in the portraits kept going to visit
each other, and Harry was sure the coats of armor could walk.

The ghosts didn't help, either. It was always a nasty shock when one of
them glided suddenly through a door you were trying to open. Nearly
Headless Nick was always happy to point new Gryffindors in the right
direction, but Peeves the Poltergeist was worth two locked doors and a
trick staircase if you met him when you were late for class. He would
drop wastepaper baskets on your head, pull rugs from under your feet,
pelt you with bits of chalk, or sneak up behind you, invisible, grab
your nose, and screech, 


Even worse than Peeves, if that was possible, was the caretaker, Argus
Filch. Harry and Ron managed to get on the wrong side of him on their
very first morning. Filch found them trying to force their way through a
door that unluckily turned out to be the entrance to the out-of-bounds
corridor on the third floor. He wouldn't believe they were lost, was
sure they were trying to break into it on purpose, and was threatening
to lock them in the dungeons when they were rescued by Professor
Quirrell, who was passing.

Filch owned a cat called Mrs. Norris, a scrawny, dust-colored creature
with bulging, lamp like eyes just like Filch's. She patrolled the
corridors alone. Break a rule in front of her, put just one toe out of
line, and she'd whisk off for Filch, who'd appear, wheezing, two seconds
later. Filch knew the secret passageways of the school better than
anyone (except perhaps the Weasley twins) and could pop up as suddenly
as any of the ghosts. The students all hated him, and it was the dearest
ambition of many to give Mrs. Norris a good kick.

And then, once you had managed to find them, there were the classes
themselves. There was a lot more to magic, as Harry quickly found out,
than waving your wand and saying a few funny words.

They had to study the night skies through their telescopes every
Wednesday at midnight and learn the names of different stars and the
movements of the planets. Three times a week they went out to the
greenhouses behind the castle to study Herbology, with a dumpy little
witch called Professor Sprout, where they learned how to take care of
all the strange plants and fungi, and found out what they were used for.

Easily the most boring class was History of Magic, which was the only
one taught by a ghost. Professor Binns had been very old

indeed when he had fallen asleep in front of the staff room fire and got
up next morning to teach, leaving his body behind him. Binns droned on
and on while they scribbled down names and dates, and got Emetic the
Evil and Uric the Oddball mixed up.

Professor Flitwick, the Charms teacher, was a tiny little wizard who had
to stand on a pile of books to see over his desk. At the start of their
first class he took the roll call, and when he reached Harry's name he
gave an excited squeak and toppled out of sight.

Professor McGonagall was again different. Harry had been quite right to
think she wasn't a teacher to cross. Strict and clever, she gave them a
talking-to the moment they sat down in her first class.


 she said. 


Then she changed her desk into a pig and back again. They were all very
impressed and couldn't wait to get started, but soon realized they
weren't going to be changing the furniture into animals for a long time.
After taking a lot of complicated notes, they were each given a match
and started trying to turn it into a needle. By the end of the lesson,
only Hermione Granger had made any difference to her match; Professor
McGonagall showed the class how it had gone all silver and pointy and
gave Hermione a rare smile.

The class everyone had really been looking forward to was Defense
Against the Dark Arts, but Quirrell's lessons turned out to be a bit of
a joke. His classroom smelled strongly of garlic, which everyone said
was to ward off a vampire he'd met in Romania and was afraid would be
coming back to get him one of these days. His turban, he told them, had
been given to him by an African prince as a thank-you for getting rid of
a troublesome zombie, but they weren't sure they believed this story.
For one thing, when Seamus Finnigan asked eagerly to hear how Quirrell
had fought off the zombie, Quirrell went pink and started talking about
the weather; for another, they had noticed that a funny smell hung
around the turban, and the Weasley twins insisted that it was stuffed
full of garlic as well, so that Quirrell was protected wherever he went.

Harry was very relieved to find out that he wasn't miles behind everyone
else. Lots of people had come from Muggle families and, like him, hadn't
had any idea that they were witches and wizards. There was so much to
learn that even people like Ron didn't have much of a head start.

Friday was an important day for Harry and Ron. They finally managed to
find their way down to the Great Hall for breakfast without getting lost
once.


 Harry asked Ron as he poured sugar on his
porridge.


 said Ron. 
s Head of
Slytherin House. They say he always favors them -- we
s true."

"Wish McGonagall favored us, " said Harry. Professor McGonagall was head
of Gryffindor House, but it hadn
t brought Harry anything so far. She sometimes flew in to
nibble his ear and have a bit of toast before going off to sleep in the
owlery with the other school owls. This morning, however, she fluttered
down between the marmalade and the sugar bowl and dropped a note onto
Harry
s quill, scribbled Yes, please, see you later on the
back of the note, and sent Hedwig off again.

It was lucky that Harry had tea with Hagrid to look forward to, because
the Potions lesson turned out to be the worst thing that had happened to
him so far.

At the start-of-term banquet, Harry had gotten the idea that Professor
Snape disliked him. By the end of the first Potions lesson, he knew he
t dislike Harry -- he hated him.

Potions lessons took place down in one of the dungeons. It was colder
here than up in the main castle, and would have been quite creepy enough
without the pickled animals floating in glass jars all around the walls.

Snape, like Flitwick, started the class by taking the roll call, and
like Flitwick, he paused at Harry
Ah, Yes,
Harry Potter. Our new -- celebrity.
s, but they had none of Hagrid
You are here to learn the subtle science and exact art of
potionmaking,
As there is little foolish wand-waving
here, many of you will hardly believe this is magic. I don't expect you
will really understand the beauty of the softly simmering cauldron with
its shimmering fumes, the delicate power of liquids that creep through
human veins, bewitching the mind, ensnaring the senses.... I can teach
you how to bottle fame, brew glory, even stopper death -- if you aren't
as big a bunch of dunderheads as I usually have to teach.
t a dunderhead.

"Potter!" said Snape suddenly. "What would I get if I added powdered
root of asphodel to an infusion of wormwood?"

Powdered root of what to an infusion of what? Harry glanced at Ron, who
looked as stumped as he was; Hermione
I don't know, sit,
s lips curled into a sneer.

"Tut, tut -- fame clearly isn


He ignored Hermione's hand.


s try again. Potter, where would you look if I told you to find me
a bezoar?"

Hermione stretched her hand as high into the air as it would go without
her leaving her seat, but Harry didn
I don't know, sit.
Thought you wouldn't open a book before coming,
eh, Potter?
, but did
Snape expect him to remember everything in One Thousand Magical Herbs
and Fungi?

Snape was still ignoring Hermione
What is the difference, Potter, between monkshood and wolfsbane?
I don't know,
I think Hermione does, though, why
don't you try her?
s eye, and Seamus winked.
Snape, however, was not pleased.

"Sit down," he snapped at Hermione. "For your information, Potter,
asphodel and wormwood make a sleeping potion so powerful it is known as
the Draught of Living Death. A bezoar is a stone taken from the stomach
of a goat and it will save you from most poisons. As for monkshood and
wolfsbane, they are the same plant, which also goes by the name of
aconite. Well? Why aren


There was a sudden rummaging for quills and parchment. Over the noise,
Snape said, 


Things didn't improve for the Gryffindors as the Potions lesson
continued. Snape put them all into pairs and set them to mixing up a
simple potion to cure boils. He swept around in his long black cloak,
watching them weigh dried nettles and crush snake fangs, criticizing
almost everyone except Malfoy, whom he seemed to like. He was just
telling everyone to look at the perfect way Malfoy had stewed his horned
slugs when clouds of acid green smoke and a loud hissing filled the
dungeon. Neville had somehow managed to melt Seamus's cauldron into a
twisted blob, and their potion was seeping across the stone floor,
burning holes in people's shoes. Within seconds, the whole class was
standing on their stools while Neville, who had been drenched in the
potion when the cauldron collapsed, moaned in pain as angry red boils
sprang up all over his arms and legs.


 snarled Snape, clearing the spilled potion away with one
wave of his wand. 


Neville whimpered as boils started to pop up all over his nose.


 Snape spat at Seamus. Then he
rounded on Harry and Ron, who had been working next to Neville.


t you tell him not to add the quills? Thought
he
s another
point you


This was so unfair that Harry opened his mouth to argue, but Ron kicked
him behind their cauldron.


 he muttered, 
ve heard Snape can turn very nasty."

As they climbed the steps out of the dungeon an hour later, Harry
d lost two points for Gryffindor
in his very first week -- why did Snape hate him so much? "Cheer up,"
said Ron, "Snape


At five to three they left the castle and made their way across the
grounds. Hagrid lived in a small wooden house on the edge of the
forbidden forest. A crossbow and a pair of galoshes were outside the
front door.

When Harry knocked they heard a frantic scrabbling from inside and
several booming barks. Then Hagrid's voice rang out, saying, 


Hagrid's big, hairy face appeared in the crack as he pulled the door
open.


 he said. 


He let them in, struggling to keep a hold on the collar of an enormous
black boarhound.

There was only one room inside. Hams and pheasants were hanging from the
ceiling, a copper kettle was boiling on the open fire, and in the corner
stood a massive bed with a patchwork quilt over it.


 said Hagrid, letting go of Fang, who bounded
straight at Ron and started licking his ears. Like Hagrid, Fang was
clearly not as fierce as he looked.


 Harry told Hagrid, who was pouring boiling water into a
large teapot and putting rock cakes onto a plate.


 said Hagrid, glancing at Ron's freckles. I spent
half me life chasin' yer twin brothers away from the forest.
s
knee and drooled all over his robes.

Harry and Ron were delighted to hear Hagrid call Fitch "that old git."

"An
d like ter introduce her to Fang
sometime. D
t get rid of her -- Fitch puts her up to it."

Harry told Hagrid about Snape
But he seemed to really hate me.
Rubbish!
Why should he?
t help thinking that Hagrid didn
How's yer brother Charlie?
I liked him a lot --
great with animals.
s work with dragons, Harry picked up a
piece of paper that was lying on the table under the tea cozy. It was a
cutting from the Daily Prophet:

GRINGOTTS BREAK-IN LATEST

Investigations continue into the break-in at Gringotts on 31 July,
widely believed to be the work of Dark wizards or witches unknown.

Gringotts goblins today insisted that nothing had been taken. The vault
that was searched had in fact been emptied the same day.

"But we
s good for you," said a Gringotts spokesgoblin this
afternoon.

Harry remembered Ron telling him on the train that someone had tried to
rob Gringotts, but Ron hadn
Hagrid!
that Gringotts break-in happened on my birthday!
It might've been happening while we were there!
t meet Harry
d been too polite to refuse, Harry
thought that none of the lessons he
t want to tell Harry?


CHAPTER NINE

THE MIDNIGHT DUEL

Harry had never believed he would meet a boy he hated more than Dudley,
but that was before he met Draco Malfoy.	Still, first-year
Gryffindors only had Potions with the Slytherins, so they didn
t until they spotted a
notice pinned up in the Gryffindor common room that made them all groan.
Flying lessons would be starting on Thursday -- and Gryffindor and
Slytherin	would be learning together.

"Typical," said Harry darkly. "Just what I always wanted. To make a fool
of myself on a broomstick in front of Malfoy."

He had been looking forward to learning to fly more than anything else.

"You don
ll make a fool of yourself," said Ron
reasonably. "Anyway, I know Malfoy
s all talk."

Malfay certainly did talk about flying a lot. He complained loudly about
first years never getting on the house Quidditch teams and told long,
boastful stories that always seemed to end with him narrowly escaping
Muggles in helicopters. He wasn
d spent most of his childhood zooming around the
countryside on his broomstick. Even Ron would tell anyone who
d almost hit a hang glider on Charlie
t see what was exciting about a game
with only one ball where no one was allowed to fly. Harry had caught Ron
prodding Dean
d had
good reason, because Neville managed to have an extraordinary number of
accidents even with both feet on the ground.

Hermione Granger was almost as nervous about flying as Neville was. This
was something you couldn
t tried. At breakfast on Thursday she bored them all stupid with
flying tips she
s lecture was interrupted
by the arrival of the mail.

Harry hadn
s note, something that
Malfoy had been quick to notice, of course. Malfoy
It's a Remembrall!
Gran knows I forget things -- this
tells you if there's something you've forgotten to do. Look, you hold it
tight like this and if it turns red -- oh...
You've forgotten something...
d forgotten when Draco Malfoy,
who was passing the Gryffindor table, snatched the Remembrall out of his
hand.

Harry and Ron jumped to their feet. They were half hoping for a reason
to fight Malfay, but Professor McGonagall, who could spot trouble
quicker than any teacher in the school, was there in a flash.

"What



s got my Remembrall, Professor."

Scowling, Malfoy quickly dropped the Remembrall back on the table.

"Just looking," he said, and he sloped away with Crabbe and Goyle behind
him.

At three-thirty that afternoon, Harry, Ron, and the other Gryffindors
hurried down the front steps onto the grounds for their first flying
lesson. It was a clear, breezy day, and the grass rippled under their
feet as they marched down the sloping lawns toward a smooth, flat lawn
on the opposite side of the grounds to the forbidden forest, whose trees
were swaying darkly in the distance.

The Slytherins were already there, and so were twenty broomsticks lying
in neat lines on the ground. Harry had heard Fred and George Weasley
complain about the school brooms, saying that some of them started to
vibrate if you flew too high, or always flew slightly to the left.

Their teacher, Madam Hooch, arrived. She had short, gray hair, and
yellow eyes like a hawk.

"Well, what are you all waiting for?" she barked. "Everyone stand by a
broomstick. Come on, hurry up."

Harry glanced down at his broom. It was old and some of the twigs stuck
out at odd angles.

"Stick out your right hand over your broom," called Madam Hooch at the
front, "and say 
'


s broom jumped into his hand at once, but it was one of the few
that did. Hermione Granger
s hadn
s
voice that said only too clearly that he wanted to keep his feet on the
ground.

Madam Hooch then showed them how to mount their brooms without sliding
off the end, and walked up and down the rows correcting their grips.
Harry and Ron were delighted when she told Malfoy he
Now, when I blow my whistle, you kick off from the ground, hard,
Keep your brooms steady, rise a few feet, and then come
straight back down by leaning forward slightly. On my whistle -- three
-- two --
s
lips.

"Come back, boy!" she shouted, but Neville was rising straight up like a
cork shot out of a bottle -- twelve feet -- twenty feet. Harry saw his
scared white face look down at the ground falling away, saw him gasp,
slip sideways off the broom and --

WHAM -- a thud and a nasty crack and Neville lay facedown on the grass
in a heap. His broomstick was still rising higher and higher, and
started to drift lazily toward the forbidden forest and out of sight.

Madam Hooch was bending over Neville, her face as white as his.

"Broken wrist," Harry heard her mutter. "Come on, boy -- it
.

She turned to the rest of the class.


ll be out of Hogwarts before
you can say 
 Come on, dear."

Neville, his face tear-streaked, clutching his wrist, hobbled off with
Madam Hooch, who had her arm around him.

No sooner were they out of earshot than Malfoy burst into laughter.

"Did you see his face, the great lump?"

The other Slytherins joined in.

"Shut up, Malfoy," snapped Parvati Patil.

"Ooh, sticking up for Longbottom?" said Pansy Parkinson, a hard-faced
Slytherin girl. "Never thought you



 said Malfoy, darting forward and snatching something out of the
grass. 
s that stupid thing Longbottom


The Remembrall glittered in the sun as he held it up.


 said Harry quietly. Everyone stopped talking
to watch.

Malfoy smiled nastily.


ll leave it somewhere for Longbottom to find -- how about --
up a tree?"

"Give it here!" Harry yelled, but Malfoy had leapt onto his broomstick
and taken off. He hadn
Come and get it,
Potter!
No!
Madam Hooch told us not to move --
you'll get us all into trouble.
d found something he could do without being
taught -- this was easy, this was wonderful. He pulled his broomstick up
a little to take it even higher, and heard screams and gasps of girls
back on the ground and an admiring whoop from Ron.

He turned his broomstick sharply to face Malfoy in midair. Malfoy looked
stunned.

"Give it here," Harry called, "or I
 
 said Malfoy, trying to sneer, but looking worried.

Harry knew, somehow, what to do. He leaned forward and grasped the broom
tightly in both hands, and it shot toward Malfay like a javelin. Malfoy
only just got out of the way in time; Harry made a sharp about-face and
held the broom steady. A few people below were clapping.


 Harry called.

The same thought seemed to have struck Malfoy.


 he shouted, and he threw the glass ball
high into the air and streaked back toward the ground.

Harry saw, as though in slow motion, the ball rise up in the air and
then start to fall. He leaned forward and pointed his broom handle down
-- next second he was gathering speed in a steep dive, racing the ball
-- wind whistled in his ears, mingled with the screams of people
watching -- he stretched out his hand -- a foot from the ground he
caught it, just in time to pull his broom straight, and he toppled
gently onto the grass with the Remembrall clutched safely in his fist.




His heart sank faster than he'd just dived. Professor McGonagall was
running toward them. He got to his feet, trembling.




Professor McGonagall was almost speechless with shock, and her glasses
flashed furiously, 



t his fault, Professor --"

"Be quiet, Miss Patil

"But Malfoy --"

"That


Harry caught sight of Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle's triumphant faces as he
left, walking numbly in Professor McGonagall's wake as she strode toward
the castle. He was going to be expelled, he just knew it. He wanted to
say something to defend himself, but there seemed to be something wrong
with his voice. Professor McGonagall was sweeping along without even
looking at him; he had to jog to keep up. Now he'd done it. He hadn't
even lasted two weeks. He'd be packing his bags in ten minutes. What
would the Dursleys say when he turned up on the doorstep?

Up the front steps, up the marble staircase inside, and still Professor
McGonagall didn't say a word to him. She wrenched open doors and marched
along corridors with Harry trotting miserably behind her. Maybe she was
taking him to Dumbledore. He thought of Hagrid, expelled but allowed to
stay on as gamekeeper. Perhaps he could be Hagrid's assistant. His
stomach twisted as he imagined it, watching Ron and the others becoming
wizards, while he stumped around the grounds carrying Hagrid's bag.

Professor McGonagall stopped outside a classroom. She opened the door
and poked her head inside.




Wood? thought Harry, bewildered; was Wood a cane she was going to use on
him?

But Wood turned out to be a person, a burly fifth-year boy who came out
of Flitwicles class looking confused.


 said Professor McGonagall, and they marched on up
the corridor, Wood looking curiously at Harry.




Professor McGonagall pointed them into a classroom that was empty except
for Peeves, who was busy writing rude words on the blackboard.


 she barked. Peeves threw the chalk into a bin, which
clanged loudly, and he swooped out cursing. Professor McGonagall slammed
the door behind him and turned to face the two boys.


ve found you a Seeker."

Wood
Are you serious, Professor?
Absolutely,
The boy's a natural.
I've never seen anything like it. Was that your first time on a
broomstick, Potter?
t have a clue what was going on, but he
didn
He caught that thing in his hand after a fifty-foot dive,
Didn't even scratch himself. Charlie Weasley
couldn't have done it.
Ever seen a game of Quidditch, Potter?
Wood's captain of the Gryffindor team,
He's just the build for a Seeker, too,
Light -- speedy -- we'll have to get him a
decent broom, Professor -- a Nimbus Two Thousand or a Cleansweep Seven,
I'd say.
t bend the
first-year rule. Heaven knows, we need a better team than last year.
Flattened in that last match by Slytherin, I couldn


Professor McGonagall peered sternly over her glasses at Harry.


re training hard, Potter, or I may change my mind
about punishing you."

Then she suddenly smiled.

"Your father would have been proud," she said. "He was an excellent
Quidditch player himself."

"You


It was dinnertime. Harry had just finished telling Ron what had happened
when he'd left the grounds with Professor McGonagall. Ron had a piece of
steak and kidney pie halfway to his mouth, but he'd forgotten all about
it.


 he said. 
Wood told me.
I start training next week,
Only don't tell anyone, Wood
wants to keep it a secret.
Well done,
Wood told us. We're on the
team too -- Beaters.
I tell you, we're going to win that Quidditch cup for sure this year,
We haven't won since Charlie left, but this year's team is
going to be brilliant. You must be good, Harry, Wood was almost skipping
when he told us.
Anyway, we've got to go, Lee Jordan reckons he's found a new secret
passageway out of the school.
Bet it's that one behind the statue of Gregory the Smarmy that we found
in our first week. See you.
Having a last meal, Potter? When are you getting the train back to the
Muggles?
You're a lot braver now that you're back on the ground and you've got
your little friends with you,
I'd take you on anytime on my own,
Tonight, if you want.
Wizard's duel. Wands only -- no contact. What's the matter? Never heard
of a wizard's duel before, I suppose?
Of course he has,
I'm his second, who's
yours?
Crabbe,
Midnight all right? We'll meet you in the trophy
room; that's always unlocked.
What is a
wizard's duel?
And what do you mean, you're my second?
Well, a second's there to take over if you die,
s
face, he added quickly, "But people only die in proper duels, you know,
with real wizards. The most you and Malfoy






 Ron suggested. 


They both looked up. It was Hermione Granger.


t a person eat in peace in this place?" said Ron.

Hermione ignored him and spoke to Harry.

"I couldn



 Ron muttered.


t go wandering around the school at night, think of the
points you
re caught, and you
s really very selfish of you."

"And it
 said Harry.


 said Ron.

All the same, it wasn't what you'd call the perfect end to the day,
Harry thought, as he lay awake much later listening to Dean and Seamus
falling asleep (Neville wasn't back from the hospital wing). Ron had
spent all evening giving him advice such as 
d better dodge it, because I can

There was a very good chance they were going to get caught by Filch or
Mrs. Norris, and Harry felt he was pushing his luck, breaking another
school rule today. On the other hand, Malfoys sneering face kept looming
up out of the darkness - this was his big chance to beat Malfoy
face-to-face. He couldn't miss it.


 Ron muttered at last, 
d better go."

They pulled on their bathrobes, picked up their wands, and crept across
the tower room, down the spiral staircase, and into the Gryffindor
common room. A few embers were still glowing in the fireplace, turning
all the armchairs into hunched black shadows. They had almost reached
the portrait hole when a voice spoke from the chair nearest them, "I
can
re going to do this, Harry."

A lamp flickered on. It was Hermione Granger, wearing a pink bathrobe
and a frown.

"You!" said Ron furiously. "Go back to bed!"

"I almost told your brother," Hermione snapped, "Percy -- he
d put a stop to this."

Harry couldn
Come on,
t going to give up that easily. She followed Ron through
the portrait hole, hissing at them like an angry goose.

"Don
t want Slytherin to win the house cup, and you



 
re on the train home tomorrow, you


But what they were, they didn't find out. Hermione had turned to the
portrait of the Fat Lady to get back inside and found herself facing an
empty painting. The Fat Lady had gone on a nighttime visit and Hermione
was locked out of Gryffindor tower.


 she asked shrilly.


s your problem," said Ron. "We


They hadn't even reached the end of the corridor when Hermione caught up
with them.


m coming with you," she said.

"You are not."

"D
m going to stand out here and wait for Filch to catch me?
If he finds all three of us I



ve got some nerve --" said Ron loudly.

"Shut up, both of you!" said Harry sharply. I heard something."

It was a sort of snuffling.

"Mrs. Norris?" breathed Ron, squinting through the dark.

It wasn
Thank goodness you found me! I've been out here for hours, I couldn't
remember the new password to get in to bed.
Keep your voice down, Neville. The password's 'Pig snout' but it won't
help you now, the Fat Lady's gone off somewhere.
How's your arm?
Fine,
Madam Pomfrey mended it in about a
minute.
Good - well, look, Neville, we've got to be somewhere, we'll see you
later --
Don't leave me!
I don't want to
stay here alone, the Bloody Baron's been past twice already.
If either of you get us caught, I'll never rest until I've learned that
Curse of the Bogies Quirrell told us about, and used it on you.

Hermione opened her mouth, perhaps to tell Ron exactly how to use the
Curse of the Bogies, but Harry hissed at her to be quiet and beckoned
them all forward.

They flitted along corridors striped with bars of moonlight from the
high windows. At every turn Harry expected to run into Filch or Mrs.
Norris, but they were lucky. They sped up a staircase to the third floor
and tiptoed toward the trophy room.

Malfoy and Crabbe weren't there yet. The crystal trophy cases glimmered
where the moonlight caught them. Cups, shields, plates, and statues
winked silver and gold in the darkness. They edged along the walls,
keeping their eyes on the doors at either end of the room. Harry took
out his wand in case Malfoy leapt in and started at once. The minutes
crept by.


s late, maybe he
 Ron whispered.

Then a noise in the next room made them jump. Harry had only just raised
his wand when they heard someone speak -and it wasn't Malfoy.




It was Filch speaking to Mrs. Norris. Horror-struck, Harry waved madly
at the other three to follow him as quickly as possible; they scurried
silently toward the door, away from Filch's voice. Neville's robes had
barely whipped round the corner when they heard Filch enter the trophy
room.


re in here somewhere," they heard him mutter, "probably hiding."

"This way!" Harry mouthed to the others and, petrified, they began to
creep down a long gallery full of suits of armor. They could hear Filch
getting nearer. Neville suddenly let out a frightened squeak and broke
into a run -he tripped, grabbed Ron around the waist, and the pair of
them toppled right into a suit of armor.

The clanging and crashing were enough to wake the whole castle.

"RUN!" Harry yelled, and the four of them sprinted down the gallery, not
looking back to see whether Filch was following -- they swung around the
doorpost and galloped down one corridor then another, Harry in the lead,
without any idea where they were or where they were going -- they ripped
through a tapestry and found themselves in a hidden passageway, hurtled
along it and came out near their Charms classroom, which they knew was
miles from the trophy room.

"I think we
 Harry panted, leaning against the cold wall
and wiping his forehead. Neville was bent double, wheezing and
spluttering.

I -- told -you,
I -- told -- you.
We've got to get back to Gryffindor tower,
quickly as
possible.
Malfoy tricked you,
You realize that, don't
you? He was never going to meet you -- Filch knew someone was going to
be in the trophy room, Malfoy must have tipped him off.
t going to tell her
that.

"Let


It wasn't going to be that simple. They hadn't gone more than a dozen
paces when a doorknob rattled and something came shooting out of a
classroom in front of them.

It was Peeves. He caught sight of them and gave a squeal of delight.


ll get us thrown out."

Peeves cackled.

"Wandering around at midnight, Ickle Firsties? Tut, tut, tut. Naughty,
naughty, you



t give us away, Peeves, please."

"Should tell Filch, I should," said Peeves in a saintly voice, but his
eyes glittered wickedly. "It



 snapped Ron, taking a swipe at Peeves this was a
big mistake.


 Peeves bellowed, 


Ducking under Peeves, they ran for their lives, right to the end of the
corridor where they slammed into a door -- and it was locked.


 Ron moaned, as they pushed helplessly at the door, 
re
done for! This is the end!" They could hear footsteps, Filch running as
fast as he could toward Peeves
Oh, move over,
s wand, tapped the
lock, and whispered, 


The lock clicked and the door swung open -- they piled through it, shut
it quickly, and pressed their ears against it, listening.


 Filch was saying. 



please."
Don't mess with me, Peeves, now where did they go?
Shan't say nothing if you don't say please,
All right -please.
NOTHING! Ha haaa! Told you I wouldn't say nothing if you didn't say
please! Ha ha! Haaaaaa!
He thinks this door is locked,
I think we'll be okay
-- get off, Neville!
s bathrobe for the last minute. "What?"

Harry turned around -- and saw, quite clearly, what. For a moment, he
was sure he
t in a room, as he had supposed. They were in a corridor. The
forbidden corridor on the third floor. And now they knew why it was
forbidden.

They were looking straight into the eyes of a monstrous dog, a dog that
filled the whole space between ceiling and floor. It had three heads.
Three pairs of rolling, mad eyes; three noses, twitching

and quivering in their direction; three drooling mouths, saliva hanging
in slippery ropes from yellowish fangs.

It was standing quite still, all six eyes staring at them, and Harry
knew that the only reason they weren
d take
Filch.

They fell backward -- Harry slammed the door shut, and they ran, they
almost flew, back down the corridor. Filch must have hurried off to look
for them somewhere else, because they didn
t stop running until they
reached the portrait of the Fat Lady on the seventh floor.

"Where on earth have you all been?" she asked, looking at their
bathrobes hanging off their shoulders and their flushed, sweaty faces.

"Never mind that -- pig snout, pig snout," panted Harry, and the
portrait swung forward. They scrambled into the common room and
collapsed, trembling, into armchairs.

It was a while before any of them said anything. Neville, indeed, looked
as if he
What do they think they're doing, keeping a thing like that locked up
in a school?
If any dog needs exercise, that one
does.
You
don't use your eyes, any of you, do you?
Didn't you see
what it was standing on.


 Harry suggested. 
t looking at its feet, I was too
busy with its heads."

"No, not the floor. It was standing on a trapdoor. It


She stood up, glaring at them.

I hope you're pleased with yourselves. We could all have been killed --
or worse, expelled. Now, if you don't mind, I'm going to bed.
No, we don't mind,
You'd think we dragged her along,
wouldn't you.

But Hermione had given Harry something else to think about as he climbed
back into bed. The dog was guarding something.... What had Hagrid said?
Gringotts was the safest place in the world for something you wanted to
hide -- except perhaps Hogwarts.

It looked as though Harry had found out where the grubby littie package
from vault seven hundred and thirteen was.


CHAPTER TEN

HALLOWEEN

Malfoy couldn't believe his eyes when he saw that Harry and Ron were
still at Hogwarts the next day, looking tired but perfectly cheerful.
Indeed, by the next morning Harry and Ron thought that meeting the
three-headed dog had been an excellent adventure, and they were quite
keen to have another one. In the meantime, Harry filled Ron in about the
package that seemed to have been moved from Gringotts to Hogwarts, and
they spent a lot of time wondering what could possibly need such heavy
protection. 
s either really valuable or really dangerous," said Ron.
"Or both," said Harry.


But as all they knew for sure about the mysterious object was that it
was about two inches long, they didn
s attention
was caught at once by a long, thin package carried by six large screech
owls. Harry was just as interested as everyone else to see what was in
this large parcel, and was amazed when the owls soared down and dropped
it right in front of him, knocking his bacon to the floor. They had
hardly fluttered out of the way when another owl dropped a letter on top
of the parcel.

Harry ripped open the letter first, which was lucky, because it said:


DO NOT OPEN THE PARCEL AT THE TABLE.

It contains your new Nimbus Two Thousand, but I don
ve got a broomstick or they
clock for your
first training session.

Professor McGonagall

Harry had difficulty hiding his glee as he handed the note to Ron to
read.

"A Nimbus Two Thousand!" Ron moaned enviously. "I


They left the hall quickly, wanting to unwrap the broomstick in private
before their first class, but halfway across the entrance hall they
found the way upstairs barred by Crabbe and Goyle. Malfoy seized the
package from Harry and felt it.


s a broomstick," he said, throwing it back to Harry with a mixture
of jealousy and spite on his face. "You
t allowed them."

Ron couldn
It's not any old broomstick,
it's a Nimbus Two Thousand.
What did you say you've got at home, Malfoy, a Comet Two Sixty?
Comets look flashy, but they're not in the same
league as the Nimbus.
What would you know about it, Weasley, you couldn't afford half the
handle,
I suppose you and your brothers have to
save up twig by twig.
s elbow.

"Not arguing, I hope, boys?" he squeaked.

"Potter
 said Malfoy quickly.


s right," said Professor Flitwick, beaming at Harry.
"Professor McGonagall told me all about the special circumstances,
Potter. And what model is it?"

"A Nimbus Two Thousand, sit," said Harry, fighting not to laugh at the
look of horror on Malfoy
And it's really thanks to Malfoy here
that I've got it,
s
obvious rage and confusion. "Well, it
 Harry chortled as they
reached the top of the marble staircase, 
t stolen Neville
t be on the team...."

"So I suppose you think that
 came an
angry voice from just behind them. Hermione was stomping up the stairs,
looking disapprovingly at the package in Harry's hand.


t speaking to us?" said Harry.

"Yes, don
 said Ron, 
s doing us so much good."

Hermione marched away with her nose in the air.

Harry had a lot of trouble keeping his mind on his lessons that day. It
kept wandering up to the dormitory where his new broomstick was lying
under his bed, or straying off to the Quidditch field where he
Wow,
s bedspread.

Even Harry, who knew nothing about the different brooms, thought it
looked wonderful. Sleek and shiny, with a mahogany handle, it had a long
tail of neat, straight twigs and Nimbus Two Thousand written in gold
near the top.

As seven o
Hey, Potter, come down!'

Oliver Wood had arrived. fie was carrying a large wooden crate under his
arm. Harry landed next to him.


 said Wood, his eyes glinting. 
m just going to teach you the rules
this evening, then you


He opened the crate. Inside were four different-sized balls.


 said Wood. 
s not too easy to play. There are seven players on each side.
Three of them are called Chasers."

"Three Chasers," Harry repeated, as Wood took out a bright red ball
about the size of a soccer ball.

"This ball
 said Wood. 




Harry recited. 
s sort of like basketball on broomsticks with
six hoops, isn



s basketball?" said Wood curiously. "Never mind," said Harry
quickly.

"Now, there
s called the Keeper -I



 said Harry, who was determined to remember
it all. 
 He pointed at the three balls left inside the box.


ll show you now," said Wood. "Take this."

He handed Harry a small club, a bit like a short baseball bat.

"I
 Wood said. 


He showed Harry two identical balls, jet black and slightly smaller than
the red Quaffle. Harry noticed that they seemed to be straining to
escape the straps holding them inside the box.


 Wood warned Harry. He bent down and freed one of the
Bludgers.

At once, the black ball rose high in the air and then pelted straight at
Harry's face. Harry swung at it with the bat to stop it from breaking
his nose, and sent it zigzagging away into the air -- it zoomed around
their heads and then shot at Wood, who dived on top of it and managed to
pin it to the ground.


 Wood panted, forcing the struggling Bludger back into the crate
and strapping it down safely. 
s why you have two Beaters on each
team -- the Weasley twins are ours -- it
ve got all that?"

"Three Chasers try and score with the Quaffle; the Keeper guards the
goal posts; the Beaters keep the Bludgers away from their team," Harry
reeled off.

"Very good," said Wood.

"Er -- have the Bludgers ever killed anyone?" Harry asked, hoping he
sounded offhand.

"Never at Hogwarts. We
s you. And you don



t worry, the Weasleys are more than a match for the Bludgers -- I
mean, they


Wood reached into the crate and took out the fourth and last ball.
Compared with the Quaffle and the Bludgers, it was tiny, about the size
of a large walnut. It was bright gold and had little fluttering silver
wings.


 said Wood, 
s the most important
ball of the lot. It
s so fast and
difficult to see. It
s job to catch it. You
s Seeker, because whichever Seeker catches the
Snitch wins his team an extra hundred and fifty points, so they

nearly always win. That
Well, that's it -- any
questions?
We won't practice with the Snitch yet,
it's too dark, we might lose it. Let's try
you out with a few of these.
t miss a single one, and Wood was delighted. After half an
hour, night had really fallen and they couldn
That Quidditch cup'll have our name on it this year,
I wouldn't be surprised if you
turn out better than Charlie Weasley, and he could have played for
England if he hadn't gone off chasing dragons.
d already been at Hogwarts two
months. The castle felt more like home than Privet Drive ever had. His
lessons, too, were becoming more and more interesting now that they had
mastered the basics.

On Halloween morning they woke to the delicious smell of baking pumpkin
wafting through the corridors. Even better, Professor Flitwick announced
in Charms that he thought they were ready to start making objects fly,
something they had all been dying to try since they
s toad zoom around the classroom. Professor Flitwick put the
class into pairs to practice. Harry
t spoken to
either of them since the day Harry
Now, don't forget that nice wrist movement we've been practicing!
Swish and flick, remember, swish and flick. And saying the magic
words properly is very important, too -- never forget Wizard Baruffio,
who said 's' instead of 'f' and found himself on the floor with a
buffalo on his chest.
t having much more luck.

"Wingardium Leviosa!" he shouted, waving his long arms like a windmill.

"You
 Harry heard Hermione snap. 
s Wing-gar-dium
Levi-o-sa, make the 
 nice and long."


"You do it, then, if you
 Ron snarled.

Hermione rolled up the sleeves of her gown, flicked her wand, and said,



Their feather rose off the desk and hovered about four feet above their
heads.


 cried Professor Flitwick, clapping. 
s done it!"

Ron was in a very bad mood by the end of the class. "It
 he said to Harry as they pushed their way into the
crowded corridor, 
s a nightmare, honestly. "

Someone knocked into Harry as they hurried past him. It was Hermione.
Harry caught a glimpse of her face -- and was startled to see that she
was in tears.

"I think she heard you."

"So?" said Ron, but he looked a bit uncomfortable. "She must
s got no friends."

Hermione didn
t seen all
afternoon. On their way down to the Great Hall for the Halloween feast,
Harry and Ron overheard Parvati Patil telling her friend Lavender that
Hermione was crying in the girls
s chair, slumped
against the table, and gasped, "Troll -- in the dungeons -- thought you
ought to know."

He then sank to the floor in a dead faint.

There was an uproar. It took several purple firecrackers exploding from
the end of Professor Dumbledore
Prefects,
lead your Houses back to the dormitories
immediately!
Follow me! Stick together, first years! No need to fear the troll if
you follow my orders! Stay close behind me, now. Make way, first years
coming through! Excuse me, I'm a prefect!
How could a troll get in?
Don't ask me, they're supposed to be really stupid,
Maybe
Peeves let it in for a Halloween joke.
s arm.

"I






t know about the troll."

Ron bit his lip.

"Oh, all right," he snapped. "But Percy


Ducking down, they joined the Hufflepuffs going the other way, slipped
down a deserted side corridor, and hurried off toward the girls'
bathroom. They had just turned the corner when they heard quick
footsteps behind them.


 hissed Ron, pulling Harry behind a large stone griffin.

Peering around it, however, they saw not Percy but Snape. He crossed the
corridor and disappeared from view.


s he doing?" Harry whispered. "Why isn





Quietly as possible, they crept along the next corridor after Snape's
fading footsteps.


s heading for the third floor," Harry said, but Ron held up his
hand.

"Can you smell something?"

Harry sniffed and a foul stench reached his nostrils, a mixture of old
socks and the kind of public toilet no one seems to clean.

And then they heard it -- a low grunting, and the shuffling footfalls of
gigantic feet. Ron pointed -- at the end of a passage to the left,
something huge was moving toward them. They shrank into the shadows and
watched as it emerged into a patch of moonlight.

It was a horrible sight. Twelve feet tall, its skin was a dull, granite
gray, its great lumpy body like a boulder with its small bald head
perched on top like a coconut. It had short legs thick as tree trunks
with flat, horny feet. The smell coming from it was incredible. It was
holding a huge wooden club, which dragged along the floor because its
arms were so long.

The troll stopped next to a doorway and peered inside. It waggled its
long ears, making up its tiny mind, then slouched slowly into the room.

"The keys in the lock," Harry muttered. "We could lock it in."

"Good idea," said Ron nervously.

They edged toward the open door, mouths dry, praying the troll wasn
Yes!"

Flushed with their victory, they started to run back up the passage, but
as they reached the corner they heard something that made their hearts
stop -- a high, petrified scream -- and it was coming from the chamber
they
Oh, no,
It's the girls' bathroom!
Hermione!
Confuse it!
Oy, pea-brain!
t even seem to notice the pipe
hitting its shoulder, but it heard the yell and paused again, turning
its ugly snout toward Ron instead, giving Harry time to run around it.

"Come on, run, run!" Harry yelled at Hermione, trying to pull her toward
the door, but she couldn
s neck from behind. The troll couldn
s wand had still been in his hand when he
s nostrils.

Howling with pain, the troll twisted and flailed its club, with Harry
clinging on for dear life; any second, the troll was going to rip him
off or catch him a terrible blow with the club.

Hermione had sunk to the floor in fright; Ron pulled out his own wand --
not knowing what he was going to do he heard himself cry the first spell
that came into his head: "Wingardium Leviosa!"

The club flew suddenly out of the troll
s head. The troll swayed on the spot and then fell flat on its
face, with a thud that made the whole room tremble.

Harry got to his feet. He was shaking and out of breath. Ron was
standing there with his wand still raised, staring at what he had done.

It was Hermione who spoke first.

"Is it -- dead?"

I don
 said Harry, I think it's just been knocked out.
s nose. It was covered
in what looked like lumpy gray glue.

"Urgh -- troll boogers."

He wiped it on the troll
t realized what a racket they had been making, but of course,
someone downstairs must have heard the crashes and the troll
s
mind.

"What on earth were you thinking of?" said Professor McGonagall, with
cold fury in her voice. Harry looked at Ron, who was still standing with
his wand in the air. "You
t killed. Why aren


Snape gave Harry a swift, piercing look. Harry looked at the floor. He
wished Ron would put his wand down.

Then a small voice came out of the shadows.







Hermione had managed to get to her feet at last.

I went looking for the troll because I -- I thought I could deal with it
on my own -- you know, because I've read all about them.
If they hadn't found me, I'd be dead now. Harry stuck his wand
up its nose and Ron knocked it out with its own club. They didn't have
time to come and fetch anyone. It was about to finish me off when they
arrived.
t new to them.

"Well -- in that case..." said Professor McGonagall, staring at the
three of them, "Miss Granger, you foolish girl, how could you think of
tackling a mountain troll on your own?"

Hermione hung her head. Harry was speechless. Hermione was the last
person to do anything against the rules, and here she was, pretending
she had, to get them out of trouble. It was as if Snape had started
handing out sweets.

"Miss Granger, five points will be taken from Gryffindor for this," said
Professor McGonagall. "I
re not hurt
at all, you


Hermione left.

Professor McGonagall turned to Harry and Ron.




They hurried out of the chamber and didn't speak at all until they had
climbed two floors up. It was a relief to be away from the smell of the
troll, quite apart from anything else.


 Ron grumbled.


s taken off Hermione



 Ron admitted. 



t locked the thing in with
her," Harry reminded him.

They had reached the portrait of the Fat Lady.

"Pig snout," they said and entered.

The common room was packed and noisy. Everyone was eating the food that
had been sent up. Hermione, however, stood alone by the door, waiting
for them. There was a very embarrassed pause. Then, none of them looking
at each other, they all said "Thanks," and hurried off to get plates.

But from that moment on, Hermione Granger became their friend. There are
some things you can
t know
which was worse -- people telling him he
d be running around underneath him holding a mattress.

It was really lucky that Harry now had Hermlone as a friend. He didn
d have gotten through all his homework without her, what
with all the last-minute Quidditch practice Wood was making them do. She
had also tent him Quidditch Through the Ages, which turned out to be a
very interesting read.

Harry learned that there were seven hundred ways of committing a
Quidditch foul and that all of them had happened during a World Cup
match in 1473; that Seekers were usually the smallest and fastest
players, and that most serious Quidditch accidents seemed to happen to
them; that although people rarely died playing Quidditch, referees had
been known to vanish and turn up months later in the Sahara Desert.

Hermione had become a bit more relaxed about breaking rules since Harry
and Ron had saved her from the mountain troll, and she was much nicer
for it. The day before Harry
t be allowed. Unfortunately, something about
their guilty faces caught Snape
t seen
the fire, but he seemed to be looking for a reason to tell them off
anyway.

"What
ve got there, Potter?"

It was Quidditch Through the Ages. Harry showed him.

"Library books are not to be taken outside the school," said Snape.
"Give it to me. Five points from Gryffindor."

"He
 Harry muttered angrily as Snape limped
away. 
s wrong with his leg?"

"Dunno, but I hope it
 said Ron bitterly.

The Gryffindor common room was very noisy that evening. Harry, Ron, and
Hermione sat together next to a window. Hermione was checking Harry and
Ron's Charms homework for them. She would never let them copy (
), but by asking her to read it through, they got the right
answers anyway.

Harry felt restless. He wanted Quidditch Through the Ages back, to take
his mind off his nerves about tomorrow. Why should he be afraid of
Snape? Getting up, he told Ron and Hermione he was going to ask Snape if
he could have it.


 they said together, but Harry had an idea that
Snape wouldn't refuse if there were other teachers listening.

He made his way down to the staffroom and knocked. There was no answer.
He knocked again. Nothing.

Perhaps Snape had left the book in there? It was worth a try. He pushed
the door ajar and peered inside -- and a horrible scene met his eyes.

Snape and Filch were inside, alone. Snape was holding his robes above
his knees. One of his legs was bloody and mangled. Filch was handing
Snape bandages.


 Snape was saying. 


Harry tried to shut the door quietly, but --




Snape's face was twisted with fury as he dropped his robes quickly to
hide his leg. Harry gulped.







Harry left, before Snape could take any more points from Gryffindor. He
sprinted back upstairs.


 Ron asked as Harry joined them. 
s the matter?"

In a low whisper, Harry told them what he
You know what this means?
He tried to get
past that three-headed dog at Halloween! That's where he was going when
we saw him -- he's after whatever it's guarding! And Id bet my
broomstick he let that troll in, to make a diversion!
s eyes were wide.

"No -- he wouldn
I know he's not very nice, but he
wouldn't try and steal something Dumbledore was keeping safe.
Honestly, Hermione, you think all teachers are saints or something,
I'm with Harry. I wouldn't put anything past Snape. But
what's he after? What's that dog guarding?
t sleep. He tried to empty his mind
-- he needed to sleep, he had to, he had his first Quidditch match in a
few hours -- but the expression on Snape
t easy to forget.

The next morning dawned very bright and cold. The Great Hall was full of
the delicious smell of fried sausages and the cheer ful chatter of
everyone looking forward to a good Quidditch match.

"You



t want anything."

"Just a bit of toast," wheedled Hermione.

"I


Harry felt terrible. In an hour's time he'd be walking onto the field.


 said Seamus Finnigan. 



 said Harry, watching Seamus pile ketchup on his
sausages.

By eleven o'clock the whole school seemed to be out in the stands around
the Quidditch pitch. Many students had binoculars. The seats might be
raised high in the air, but it was still difficult to see what was going
on sometimes.

Ron and Hermione joined Neville, Seamus, and Dean the West Ham fan up in
the top row. As a surprise for Harry, they had painted a large banner on
one of the sheets Scabbers had ruined. It said Potter for President, and
Dean, who was good at drawing, had done a large Gryffindor lion
underneath. Then Hermione had performed a tricky little charm so that
the paint flashed different colors.

Meanwhile, in the locker room, Harry and the rest of the team were
changing into their scarlet Quidditch robes (Slytherin would be playing
in green).

Wood cleared his throat for silence.


 he said.


 said Chaser Angelina Johnson.


 Wood agreed. 



 said Fred Weasley.


ve all been waiting for," said George.

"We know Oliver
 Fred told Harry, 



 said Wood. 
s had
in years. We


He glared at them all as if to say, 



s time. Good luck, all of you."

Harry followed Fred and George out of the locker room and, hoping his
knees weren
Now, I want a nice fair game, all of you,
Mount your brooms, please.
And the
Quaffle is taken immediately by Angelina Johnson of Gryffindor -- what
an excellent Chaser that girl is, and rather attractive, too --
JORDAN!
Sorry, Professor.
 friend, Lee Jordan, was doing the commentary for the
match, closely watched by Professor McGonagall.

"And she
s, last year only a reserve -- back to
Johnson and -- no, the Slytherins have taken the Quaffle, Slytherin
Captain Marcus Flint gains the Quaffle and off he goes -- Flint flying
like an eagle up there -- he
s Chaser Katie Bell of Gryffindor there, nice dive around Flint,
off up the field and -- OUCH -- that must have hurt, hit in the back of
the head by a Bludger -- Quaffle taken by the Slytherins -- that
s blocked by a
second Bludger -- sent his way by Fred or George Weasley, can
s
really flying -- dodges a speeding Bludger -- the goal posts are ahead
-- come on, now, Angelina -- Keeper Bletchley dives -- misses --
GRYFFINDORS SCORE!"

Gryffindor cheers filled the cold air, with howls and moans from the
Slytherins.

"Budge up there, move along."

"Hagrid!"

Ron and Hermione squeezed together to give Hagrid enough space to join
them.

"Bin watchin
 said Hagrid, patting a large pair of
binoculars around his neck, 
t the same as bein



 said Ron. 
t had much to do yet."

"Kept outta trouble, though, that
," said Hagrid, raising his
binoculars and peering skyward at the speck that was Harry.

Way up above them, Harry was gliding over the game, squinting about for
some sign of the Snitch. This was part of his and Wood
Keep out of the way until you catch sight of the Snitch,
We don't want you attacked before you have to be.
 wristwatches, and once a Bludger decided to
come pelting his way, more like a cannonball than anything, but Harry
dodged it and Fred Weasley came chasing after it.

"All right there, Harry?" he had time to yell, as he beat the Bludger
furiously toward Marcus Flint.

"Slytherin in possession," Lee Jordan was saying, "Chaser Pucey ducks
two Bludgers, two Weasleys, and Chaser Bell, and speeds toward the --
wait a moment -- was that the Snitch?"

A murmur ran through the crowd as Adrian Pucey dropped the Quaffle, too
busy looking over his shoulder at the flash of gold that had passed his
left ear.

Harry saw it. In a great rush of excitement he dived downward after the
streak of gold. Slytherin Seeker Terence Higgs had seen it, too. Neck
and neck they hurtled toward the Snitch -all the Chasers seemed to have
forgotten what they were supposed to be doing as they hung in midair to
watch.

Harry was faster than Higgs -- he could see the little round ball, wings
fluttering, darting up ahead - - he put on an extra spurt of speed --

WHAM! A roar of rage echoed from the Gryffindors below -- Marcus Flint
had blocked Harry on purpose, and Harry
Foul!
Send him off, ref! Red
card!
What are you talking about, Dean?
Red card!
In soccer you get shown the red card
and you're out of the game!
But this isn't soccer, Dean,
s side.

"They oughta change the rules. Flint coulda knocked Harry outta the
air."

Lee Jordan was finding it difficult not to take sides.

"So -- after that obvious and disgusting bit of cheating

"Jordan!" growled Professor McGonagall.

"I mean, after that open and revolting foul


m warning you --"

"All right, all right. Flint nearly kills the Gryffindor Seeker, which
could happen to anyone, I


It was as Harry dodged another Bludger, which went spinning dangerously
past his head, that it happened. His broom gave a sudden, frightening
lurch. For a split second, he thought he was going to fall. He gripped
the broom tightly with both his hands and knees. He'd never felt
anything like that.

It happened again. It was as though the broom was trying to buck him
off. But Nimbus Two Thousands did not suddenly decide to buck their
riders off. Harry tried to turn back toward the Gryffindor goal- posts
-- he had half a mind to ask Wood to call time-out -- and then he
realized that his broom was completely out of his control. He couldn't
turn it. He couldn't direct it at all. It was zigzagging through the
air, and every now and then making violent swishing movements that
almost unseated him.

Lee was still commentating.


s
broom was behaving strangely. It was carrying- him slowly higher, away
from the game, jerking and twitching as it went.

"Dunno what Harry thinks he
 Hagrid mumbled. He stared through
his binoculars. 
 know better, I
d lost control of
his broom... but he can


Suddenly, people were pointing up at Harry all over the stands. His
broom had started to roll over and over, with him only just managing to
hold on. Then the whole crowd gasped. Harry's broom had given a wild
jerk and Harry swung off it. He was now dangling from it, holding on
with only one hand.


 Seamus whispered.


t have," Hagrid said, his voice shaking. "Can


At these words, Hermione seized Hagrid's binoculars, but instead of
looking up at Harry, she started looking frantically at the crowd.


 moaned Ron, gray-faced.


 Hermione gasped, 


Ron grabbed the binoculars. Snape was in the middle of the stands
opposite them. He had his eyes fixed on Harry and was muttering nonstop
under his breath.


s doing something -- jinxing the broom," said Hermione.

"What should we do?"

"Leave it to me."

Before Ron could say another word, Hermione had disappeared. Ron turned
the binoculars back on Harry. His broom was vibrating so hard, it was
almost impossible for him to hang on much longer. The whole crowd was on
its feet, watching, terrified, as the Weasleys flew up to try and pull
Harry safely onto one of their brooms, but it was no good -- every time
they got near him, the broom would jump higher still. They dropped lower
and circled beneath him, obviously hoping to catch him if he fell.
Marcus

Flint seized the Quaffle and scored five times without anyone noticing.

"Come on, Hermione," Ron muttered desperately.

Hermione had fought her way across to the stand where Snape stood, and
was now racing along the row behind him; she didn
s robes.

It took perhaps thirty seconds for Snape to realize that he was on fire.
A sudden yelp told her she had done her job. Scooping the fire off him
into a little jar in her pocket, she scrambled back along the row --
Snape would never know what had happened.

It was enough. Up in the air, Harry was suddenly able to clamber back on
to his broom.

"Neville, you can look!" Ron said. Neville had been sobbing into
Hagrid
I've got the Snitch!
He didn't catch it, he nearly swallowed it,
t broken
any rules and Lee Jordan was still happily shouting the results --
Gryffindor had won by one hundred and seventy points to sixty. Harry
heard none of this, though. He was being made a cup of strong tea back
in Hagrid
It was Snape,
Hermione and I saw him. He was
cursing your broomstick, muttering, he wouldn't take his eyes off you.
Rubbish,
t heard a word of what had gone on next
to him in the stands. "Why would Snape do somethin


Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one another, wondering what to tell
him. Harry decided on the truth.


 he told Hagrid. 
s guarding."

Hagrid dropped the teapot.

"How do you know about Fluffy?" he said.

"Fluffy?"

"Yeah -- he
 year -- I lent him to Dumbledore to guard the

"Yes?" said Harry eagerly.

"Now, don
 said Hagrid gruffly. 
s top secret,
that is."

"But Snape



 said Hagrid again. 
s a Hogwarts teacher, he
 of the sort."

"So why did he just try and kill Harry?" cried Hermione.

The afternoon
ve read all about them!

You
t blinking at all, I saw
him!"

"I
 yeh, yer wrong!" said Hagrid hotly. "I don
s broom acted like that, but Snape wouldn
 kill a student!
Now, listen to me, all three of yeh -- yer meddlin

concern yeh. It
 you forget what
it
, that
 Nicolas Flamel
--"

"Aha!" said Harry, "so there


Hagrid looked furious with himself.


CHAPTER TWELVE

THE MIRROR OF ERISED

Christmas was coming. One morning in mid-December, Hogwarts woke to find
itself covered in several feet of snow. The lake froze solid and the
Weasley twins were punished for bewitching several snowballs so that
they followed Quirrell around, bouncing off the back of his turban. The
few owls that managed to battle their way through the stormy sky to
deliver mail had to be nursed back to health by Hagrid before they could
fly off again.

No one could wait for the holidays to start. While the Gryffindor common
room and the Great Hall had roaring fires, the drafty corridors had
become icy and a bitter wind rattled the windows in the classrooms.
Worst of all were Professor Snape's classes down in the dungeons, where
their breath rose in a mist before them and they kept as close as
possible to their hot cauldrons.


 said Draco Malfoy, one Potions class, 
re
not wanted at home."

He was looking over at Harry as he spoke. Crabbe and Goyle chuckled.
Harry, who was measuring out powdered spine of lionfish, ignored them.
Malfoy had been even more unpleasant than usual since the Quidditch
match. Disgusted that the Slytherins had lost, he had tried to get
everyone laughing at how a wide-mouthed tree frog would be replacing
Harry as Seeker next. Then he
t going back to Privet Drive for Christmas.
Professor McGonagall had come around the week before, making a list of
students who would be staying for the holidays, and Harry had signed up
at once. He didn
d ever had. Ron and his brothers were staying,
too, because Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were going to Romania to visit
Charlie.

When they left the dungeons at the end of Potions, they found a large
fir tree blocking the corridor ahead. Two enormous feet sticking out at
the bottom and a loud puffing sound told them that Hagrid was behind it.

"Hi, Hagrid, want any help?" Ron asked, sticking his head through the
branches.

"Nah, I



 came Malfoys cold drawl from
behind them. 
s must seem like a palace compared to what your family


Ron dived at Malfoy just as Snape came up the stairs.




Ron let go of the front of Malfoy's robes.


 said Hagrid, sticking his huge hairy
face out from behind the tree. 
 his family."

"Be that as it may, fighting is against Hogwarts rules, Hagrid," said
Snape silkily. "Five points from Gryffindor, Weasley, and be grateful it
isn


Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle pushed roughly past the tree, scattering
needles everywhere and smirking.


ll get him," said Ron, grinding his teeth at Malfoy
one of
these days, I'll get him --
I hate them both,
Malfoy and Snape.
Come on, cheer up, it's nearly Christmas,
Tell yeh what,
come with me an' see the Great Hall, looks a treat.
Ah, Hagrid, the last tree -- put it in the far corner, would you?
How many days you got left until yer holidays?
Just one,
And that reminds me -Harry, Ron, we've got
half an hour before lunch, we should be in the library.
Oh yeah, you're right,
The library?
Just before
the holidays? Bit keen, aren't yeh?
Oh, we're not working,
Ever since you
mentioned Nicolas Flamel we've been trying to find out who he is.
You what?
Listen here -- I've told yeh -- drop
it. It's nothin' to you what that dog's guardin'.
We just want to know who Nicolas Flamel is, that's all,
Unless you'd like to tell us and save us the trouble?
We
must've been through hundreds of books already and we can't find him
anywhere -- just give us a hint -- I know I've read his name somewhere.
I'm sayin' nothin, said Hagrid flatly.


 said Ron, and they left
Hagrid looking disgruntled and hurried off to the library.

They had indeed been searching books for Flamel's name ever since Hagrid
had let it slip, because how else were they going to find out what Snape
was trying to steal? The trouble was, it was very hard to know where to
begin, not knowing what Flamel might have done to get himself into a
book. He wasn't in Great Wizards of the Twentieth Century, or Notable
Magical Names of Our Time; he was missing, too, from Important Modern
Magical Discoveries, and A Study of Recent Developments in Wizardry. And
then, of course, there was the sheer size of the library; tens of
thousands of books; thousands of shelves; hundreds of narrow rows.

Hermione took out a list of subjects and titles she had decided to
search while Ron strode off down a row of books and started pulling them
off the shelves at random. Harry wandered over to the Restricted
Section. He had been wondering for a while if Flamel wasn't somewhere in
there. Unfortunately, you needed a specially signed note from one of the
teachers to look in any of the restricted books, and he knew he'd never
get one. These were the books containing powerful Dark Magic never
taught at Hogwarts, and only read by older students studying advanced
Defense Against the Dark Arts.





 said Harry.

Madam Pince the librarian brandished a feather duster at him.


d better get out, then. Go on -- out!"

Wishing he
d better not
ask Madam Pince where they could find Flamel. They were sure she
t risk Snape hearing what they were
up to.

Harry waited outside in the corridor to see if the other two had found
anything, but he wasn
t surprising they
You will keep looking while I'm away, won't you?
And
send me an owl if you find anything.
And you could ask your parents if they know who Flamel is,
It'd be safe to ask them.
Very safe, as they're both dentists,
t work.

Ron also started teaching Harry wizard chess. This was exactly like
Muggle chess except that the figures were alive, which made it a lot
like directing troops in battle. Ron
t a drawback at all. Ron knew them so well he never had trouble
getting them to do what he wanted.

Harry played with chessmen Seamus Finnigan had lent him, and they didn
t a very good player yet and they kept
shouting different bits of advice at him, which was confusing. "Don
t you see his knight? Send him, we can afford to lose
him." On Christmas Eve, Harry went to bed looking forward to the next
day for the food and the fun, but not expecting any presents at all.
When he woke early in the morning, however, the first thing he saw was a
small pile of packages at the foot of his bed.

"Merry Christmas," said Ron sleepily as Harry scrambled out of bed and
pulled on his bathrobe.

"You, too," said Harry. "Will you look at this? I



 said Ron, turning to his own pile, which
was a lot bigger than Harry's.

Harry picked up the top parcel. It was wrapped in thick brown paper and
scrawled across it was To Harry, from Hagrid. Inside was a roughly cut
wooden flute. Hagrid had obviously whittled it himself. Harry blew it --
it sounded a bit like an owl.

A second, very small parcel contained a note.

We received your message and enclose your Christmas present. From Uncle
Vernon and Aunt Petunia. Taped to the note was a fifty-pence piece.


s friendly," said Harry.

Ron was fascinated by the fifty pence.

"Weird!" he said, 



 said Harry, laughing at how pleased Ron was. 



s from," said Ron, turning a bit pink and
pointing to a very lumpy parcel. "My mom. I told her you didn
 he groaned, 
s made you a Weasley
sweater."

Harry had torn open the parcel to find a thick, hand-knitted sweater in
emerald green and a large box of homemade fudge.

"Every year she makes us a sweater," said Ron, unwrapping his own, "and
mine



s really nice of her," said Harry, trying the fudge, which was
very tasty.

His next present also contained candy -- a large box of Chocolate Frogs
from Hermione.

This only left one parcel. Harry picked it up and felt it. It was very
light. He unwrapped it.

Something fluid and silvery gray went slithering to the floor where it
lay in gleaming folds. Ron gasped.

"I
 he said in a hushed voice, dropping the box of
Every Flavor Beans he'd gotten from Hermione. 
s what I think it
is -- they





Harry picked the shining, silvery cloth off the floor. It was strange to
the touch, like water woven into material.


s an invisibility cloak," said Ron, a look of awe on his face. "I


Harry threw the cloak around his shoulders and Ron gave a yell.




Harry looked down at his feet, but they were gone. He dashed to the
mirror. Sure enough, his reflection looked back at him, just his head
suspended in midair, his body completely invisible. He pulled the cloak
over his head and his reflection vanished completely.


s a note!" said Ron suddenly. "A note fell out of it!"

Harry pulled off the cloak and seized the letter. Written in narrow,
loopy writing he had never seen before were the following words: Your
father left this in my possession before he died. It is time it was
returned to you. Use it well.

A Very Merry Christmas to you.


There was no signature. Harry stared at the note. Ron was admiring the
cloak.

"I
 he said. 
s the
matter?"

"Nothing," said Harry. He felt very strange. Who had sent the cloak? Had
it really once belonged to his father?

Before he could say or think anything else, the dormitory door was flung
open and Fred and George Weasley bounded in. Harry stuffed the cloak
quickly out of sight. He didn
Merry Christmas!
Hey, look -- Harry's got a Weasley sweater, too!
Harry's is better than ours, though,
s
sweater. "She obviously makes more of an effort if you



t you wearing yours, Ron?" George demanded. "Come on, get it
on, they



 Ron moaned halfheartedly as he pulled it over his head.


t got a letter on yours," George observed. "I suppose she
thinks you don
re not stupid -- we know we



s all th is noise.

Percy Weasley stuck his head through the door, looking disapproving. He
had clearly gotten halfway through unwrapping his presents as he, too,
carried a lumpy sweater over his arm, which

Fred seized.

"P for prefect! Get it on, Percy, come on, we



t -- want said Percy thickly, as the twins forced the sweater
over his head, knocking his glasses askew.

"And you
 said

George. 


They frog-marched Percy from the room, his arms pinned to his side by
his sweater.

Harry had never in all his life had such a Christmas dinner. A hundred
fat, roast turkeys; mountains of roast and boiled potatoes; platters of
chipolatas; tureens of buttered peas, silver boats of thick, rich gravy
and cranberry sauce -- and stacks of wizard crackers every few feet
along the table. These fantastic party favors were nothing like the
feeble Muggle ones the Dursleys usually bought, with their little
plastic toys and their flimsy paper hats inside. Harry pulled a wizard
cracker with Fred and it didn't just bang, it went off with a blast like
a cannon and engulfed them all in a cloud of blue smoke, while from the
inside exploded a rear admiral's hat and several live, white mice. Up at
the High Table, Dumbledore had swapped his pointed wizard's hat for a
flowered bonnet, and was chuckling merrily at a joke Professor Flitwick
had just read him.

Flaming Christmas puddings followed the turkey. Percy nearly broke his
teeth on a silver sickle embedded in his slice. Harry watched Hagrid
getting redder and redder in the face as he called for more wine,
finally kissing Professor McGonagall on the cheek, who, to Harry's
amazement, giggled and blushed, her top hat lopsided.

When Harry finally left the table, he was laden down with a stack of
things out of the crackers, including a pack of nonexplodable, luminous
balloons, a Grow-Your-Own-Warts kit, and his own new wizard chess set.
The white mice had disappeared and Harry had a nasty feeling they were
going to end up as Mrs. Norris's Christmas dinner.

Harry and the Weasleys spent a happy afternoon having a furious snowball
fight on the grounds. Then, cold, wet, and gasping for breath, they
returned to the fire in the Gryffindor common room, where Harry broke in
his new chess set by losing spectacularly to Ron. He suspected he
wouldn't have lost so badly if Percy hadn't tried to help him so much.

After a meal of turkey sandwiches, crumpets, trifle, and Christmas cake,
everyone felt too full and sleepy to do much before bed except sit and
watch Percy chase Fred and George all over Gryffindor tower because
they'd stolen his prefect badge.

It had been Harry's best Christmas day ever. Yet something had been
nagging at the back of his mind all day. Not until he climbed into bed
was he free to think about it: the invisibility cloak and whoever had
sent it.

Ron, full of turkey and cake and with nothing mysterious to bother him,
fell asleep almost as soon as he'd drawn the curtains of his
four-poster. Harry leaned over the side of his own bed and pulled the
cloak out from under it.

His father's... this had been his father's. He let the material flow
over his hands, smoother than silk, light as air. Use it well, the note
had said.

He had to try it, now. He slipped out of bed and wrapped the cloak
around himself. Looking down at his legs, he saw only moonlight and
shadows. It was a very funny feeling.

Use it well.

Suddenly, Harry felt wide-awake. The whole of Hogwarts was open to him
in this cloak. Excitement flooded through him as he stood there in the
dark and silence. He could go anywhere in this, anywhere, and Filch
would never know.

Ron grunted in his sleep. Should Harry wake him? Something held him back
-- his father's cloak -- he felt that this time -- the first time -- he
wanted to use it alone.

He crept out of the dormitory, down the stairs, across the common room,
and climbed through the portrait hole.


s there?" squawked the Fat Lady. Harry said nothing. He walked
quickly down the corridor.

Where should he go? He stopped, his heart racing, and thought. And then
it came to him. The Restricted Section in the library. He
t tell him much. Their peeling, faded gold letters spelled
words in languages Harry couldn
s neck prickled. Maybe he was imagining it,
maybe not, but he thought a faint whispering was coming from the books,
as though they knew someone was there who shouldn
s pale, wild
eyes looked straight through him, and Harry slipped under Filch
s shrieks
still ringing in his ears.

He came to a sudden halt in front of a tall suit of armor. He had been
so busy getting away from the library, he hadn
t recognize where he
was at all. There was a suit of armor near the kitchens, he knew, but he
must be five floors above there.

"You asked me to come directly to you, Professor, if anyone was
wandering around at night, and somebody


Harry felt the blood drain out of his face. Wherever he was, Filch must
know a shortcut, because his soft, greasy voice was getting nearer, and
to his horror, it was Snape who replied, 
t be far, we


Harry stood rooted to the spot as Filch and Snape came around the corner
ahead. They couldn't see him, of course, but it was a narrow corridor
and if they came much nearer they'd knock right into him -- the cloak
didn't stop him from being solid.

He backed away as quietly as he could. A door stood ajar to his left. It
was his only hope. He squeezed through it, holding his breath, trying
not to move it, and to his relief he managed to get inside the room
without their noticing anything. They walked straight past, and Harry
leaned against the wall, breathing deeply, listening to their footsteps
dying away. That had been close, very close. It was a few seconds before
he noticed anything about the room he had hidden in.

It looked like an unused classroom. The dark shapes of desks and chairs
were piled against the walls, and there was an upturned wastepaper
basket -- but propped against the wall facing him was something that
didn't look as if it belonged there, something that looked as if someone
had just put it there to keep it out of the way.

It was a magnificent mirror, as high as the ceiling, with an ornate gold
frame, standing on two clawed feet. There was an inscription carved
around the top: Erised stra ehru oyt ube cafru oyt on wohsi. His panic
fading now that there was no sound of Filch and Snape, Harry moved
nearer to the mirror, wanting to look at himself but see no reflection
again. He stepped in front of it.

He had to clap his hands to his mouth to stop himself from screaming. He
whirled around. His heart was pounding far more furiously than when the
book had screamed -- for he had seen not only himself in the mirror, but
a whole crowd of people standing right behind him.

But the room was empty. Breathing very fast, he turned slowly back to
the mirror.

There he was, reflected in it, white and scared-looking, and there,
reflected behind him, were at least ten others. Harry looked over his
shoulder -- but still, no one was there. Or were they all invisible,
too? Was he in fact in a room full of invisible people and this mirror's
trick was that it reflected them, invisible or not?

He looked in the mirror again. A woman standing right behind his
reflection was smiling at him and waving. He reached out a hand and felt
the air behind him. If she was really there, he'd touch her, their
reflections were so close together, but he felt only air -- she and the
others existed only in the mirror.

She was a very pretty woman. She had dark red hair and her eyes -- her
eyes are just like mine, Harry thought, edging a little closer to the
glass. Bright green -- exactly the same shape, but then he noticed that
she was crying; smiling, but crying at the same time. The tall, thin,
black-haired man standing next to her put his arm around her. He wore
glasses, and his hair was very untidy. It stuck up at the back, just as
Harry's did.

Harry was so close to the mirror now that his nose was nearly touching
that of his reflection.


 he whispered. 


They just looked at him, smiling. And slowly, Harry looked into the
faces of the other people in the mirror, and saw other pairs of green
eyes like his, other noses like his, even a little old man who looked as
though he had Harry's knobbly knees -- Harry was looking at his family,
for the first time in his life.

The Potters smiled and waved at Harry and he stared hungrily back at
them, his hands pressed flat against the glass as though he was hoping
to fall right through it and reach them. He had a powerful kind of ache
inside him, half joy, half terrible sadness.

How long he stood there, he didn't know. The reflections did not fade
and he looked and looked until a distant noise brought him back to his
senses. He couldn't stay here, he had to find his way back to bed. He
tore his eyes away from his mother's face, whispered, 
ll come back,"
and hurried from the room.

"You could have woken me up," said Ron, crossly.

"You can come tonight, I
I'd like to see your mom and dad,
And I want to see all your family, all the Weasleys, you'll be able to
show me your other brothers and everyone.
You can see them any old time,
Just come round my house
this summer. Anyway, maybe it only shows dead people. Shame about not
finding Flamel, though. Have some bacon or something, why aren't you
eating anything?
t eat. He had seen his parents and would be seeing them
again tonight. He had almost forgotten about Flamel. It didn
Are you all right?
You look odd.
s route from the
library, wandering around the dark passageways for nearly an hour.

"I
 said Ron. 
s forget it and go back."

"No!" Harry hissed. I know it


They passed the ghost of a tall witch gliding in the opposite direction,
but saw no one else. just as Ron started moaning that his feet were dead
with cold, Harry spotted the suit of armor.


s here -- just here -- yes!"

They pushed the door open. Harry dropped the cloak from around his
shoulders and ran to the mirror.

There they were. His mother and father beamed at the sight of him.

"See?" Harry whispered.

"I can











Harry stepped aside, but with Ron in front of the mirror, he couldn't
see his family anymore, just Ron in his paisley pajamas.

Ron, though, was staring transfixed at his image.


 he said.





m alone -- but I
m head
boy!"

"What?"

"I am -- I
m holding the
house cup and the Quidditch cup -- I
Do you think this mirror shows the future?
How can it? All my family are dead -- let me have another look --
You had it to yourself all last night, give me a bit more time.
You're only holding the Quidditch cup, what's interesting about that? I
want to see my parents.
Don't push me --
t realized how loudly they had been talking.

"Quick!"

Ron threw the cloak back over them as the luminous eyes of Mrs. Norris
came round the door. Ron and Harry stood quite still, both thinking the
same thing -- did the cloak work on cats? After what seemed an age, she
turned and left.

"This isn


And Ron pulled Harry out of the room.

The snow still hadn't melted the next morning.


 said Ron.





t we go down and visit Hagrid?"

"No... you go..."

"I know what you
t go back
tonight."

"Why not?"

"I dunno, I
ve had
too many close shaves already. Filch, Snape, and Mrs. Norris are
wandering around. So what if they can






m serious, Harry, don


But Harry only had one thought in his head, which was to get back in
front of the mirror, and Ron wasn't going to stop him.

That third night he found his way more quickly than before. He was
walking so fast he knew he was making more noise than was wise, but he
didn't meet anyone.

And there were his mother and father smiling at him again, and one of
his grandfathers nodding happily. Harry sank down to sit on the floor in
front of the mirror. There was nothing to stop him from staying here all
night with his family. Nothing at all.

Except --




Harry felt as though his insides had turned to ice. He looked behind
him. Sitting on one of the desks by the wall was none other than Albus
Dumbledore. Harry must have walked straight past him, so desperate to
get to the mirror he hadn't noticed him.


t see you, sir."

"Strange how nearsighted being invisible can make you," said Dumbledore,
and Harry was relieved to see that he was smiling.

"So," said Dumbledore, slipping off the desk to sit on the floor with
Harry, "you, like hundreds before you, have discovered the delights of
the Mirror of Erised."

"I didn



ve realized by now what it does?"

"It -- well -- it shows me my family --"

"And it showed your friend Ron himself as head boy."

"How did you know --?"

"I don
 said Dumbledore gently.



Harry shook his head.




Harry thought. Then he said slowly, 



 said Dumbledore quietly. 
The Mirror will be moved to a new home tomorrow, Harry, and I ask you
not to go looking for it again. If you ever do run across it, you will
now be prepared. It does not do to dwell on dreams and forget to live,
remember that. Now, why don't you put that admirable cloak back on and
get off to bed?
Sir -- Professor Dumbledore? Can I ask you something?
Obviously, you've just done so,
You may ask me one
more thing, however.
What do you see when you look in the mirror?
I? I see myself holding a pair of thick, woolen socks.
One can never have enough socks,
Another Christmas
has come and gone and I didn't get a single pair. People will insist on
giving me books.
d seen in the mirror as easily, but he
couldn
You see, Dumbledore was right, that mirror could drive you mad,
If Filch had
caught you!
t at least found out who
Nicolas Flamel was.

They had almost given up hope of ever finding Flamel in a li- brary
book, even though Harry was still sure he
t dampen his spirits. The Weasleys
complained that Wood was becoming a fanatic, but Harry was on Wood
d just gotten very angry with the
Weasleys, who kept dive-bombing each other and pretending to fall off
their brooms.

"Will you stop messing around!" he yelled. "That
ll lose us the match! Snape
ll
be looking for any excuse to knock points off Gryffindor!"

George Weasley really did fall off his broom at these words.

"Snape
 he spluttered through a mouthful of mud. 
s
he ever refereed a Quidditch match? He


The rest of the team landed next to George to complain, too.


s not my fault," said Wood. "We
t got an excuse to pick on us."

Which was all very well, thought Harry, but he had another reason for
not wanting Snape near him while he was playing Quidditch....

The rest of the team hung back to talk to one another as usual at the
end of practice, but Harry headed straight back to the Gryffindor common
room, where he found Ron and Hermione playing chess. Chess was the only
thing Hermione ever lost at, something Harry and Ron thought was very
good for her.

"Don
 said Ron when Harry sat down next to
him, 
 He caught sight of Harry's face. 
s the
matter with you? You look terrible."

Speaking quietly so that no one else would hear, Harry told the other
two about Snape
Don't play,
Say you're ill,
Pretend to break your leg,
Really break your leg,
I can't,
There isn't a reserve Seeker. If I back out,
Gryffindor can't play at all.
s guess, because his legs
had been stuck together with what they recognized at once as the
Leg-Locker Curse. He must have had to bunny hop all the way up to
Gryffindor tower.

Everyone fell over laughing except Hermione, who leapt up and performed
the countercurse. Neville
What happened?
Malfoy,
I met him outside the library. He said
he'd been looking for someone to practice that on.
Go to Professor McGonagall!
Report him!
I don't want more trouble,
You've got to stand up to him, Neville!
He's used to
walking all over people, but that's no reason to lie down in front of
him and make it easier.
There's no need to tell me I'm not brave enough to be in Gryffindor,
Malfoy's already done that,
You're worth twelve of Malfoy,
The Sorting Hat chose you
for Gryffindor, didn't it? And where's Malfoy? In stinking Slytherin.
s lips twitched in a weak smile as he unwrapped the frog.

"Thanks, Harry... I think I
you want the card, you
collect them, don


As Neville walked away, Harry looked at the Famous Wizard card.


 he said, 


He gasped. He stared at the back of the card. Then he looked up at Ron
and Hermione.


ve found him!" he whispered. "I
d read
the name somewhere before, I read it on the train coming here -- listen
to this: 
s blood, and his work on alchemy with his partner, Nicolas
Flamel


Hermione jumped to her feet. She hadn't looked so excited since they'd
gotten back the marks for their very first piece of homework.


 she said, and she sprinted up the stairs to the girls'
dormitories. Harry and Ron barely had time to exchange mystified looks
before she was dashing back, an enormous old book in her arms.


 she whispered excitedly. 



 said Ron, but Hermione told him to be quiet until she'd looked
something up, and started flicking frantically through the pages,
muttering to herself.

At last she found what she was looking for.





 said Ron grumpily. Hermione ignored him.


 she whispered dramatically, 
s Stone!"

This didn
d expected.

"The what?" said Harry and Ron.

"Oh, honestly, don


She pushed the book toward them, and Harry and Ron read: The ancient
study of alchemy is concerned with making the Sorcerer's Stone, a
legendary substance with astonishing powers. The stone will transform
any metal into pure gold. It also produces the Elixir of Life, which
will make the drinker immortal.

There have been many reports of the Sorcerer's Stone over the centuries,
but the only Stone currently in existence belongs to Mr. Nicolas Flamel,
the noted alchemist and opera lover. Mr. Flamel, who celebrated his six
hundred and sixty-fifth birthday last year, enjoys a quiet life in Devon
with his wife, Perenelle (six hundred and fifty-eight).


 said Hermione, when Harry and Ron had finished. 
s Sorcerer
re friends and he knew someone was after it,
that



 said Harry. 
s after it! Anyone would want it."

"And no wonder we couldn
 said Ron. 
s not exactly recent if he


The next morning in Defense Against the Dark Arts, while copying down
different ways of treating werewolf bites, Harry and Ron were still
discussing what they'd do with a Sorcerer's Stone if they had one. It
wasn't until Ron said he'd buy his own Quidditch team that Harry
remembered about Snape and the coming match.


m going to play," he told Ron and Hermione. "If I don
m just too scared to face Snape. I
ll really wipe the smiles off their faces if we win."

"Just as long as we
 said Hermione.

As the match drew nearer, however, Harry became more and more nervous,
whatever he told Ron and Hermione. The rest of the team wasn't too calm,
either. The idea of overtaking Slytherin in the house championship was
wonderful, no one had done it for seven years, but would they be allowed
to, with such a biased referee?

Harry didn't know whether he was imagining it or not, but he seemed to
keep running into Snape wherever he went. At times, he even wondered
whether Snape was following him, trying to catch him on his own. Potions
lessons were turning into a sort of weekly torture, Snape was so
horrible to Harry. Could Snape possibly know they'd found out about the
Sorcerer's Stone? Harry didn't see how he could -- yet he sometimes had
the horrible feeling that Snape could read minds.

Harry knew, when they wished him good luck outside the locker rooms the
next afternoon, that Ron and Hermione were wondering whether they'd ever
see him alive again. This wasn't what you'd call comforting. Harry
hardly heard a word of Wood's pep talk as he pulled on his Quidditch
robes and picked up his Nimbus Two Thousand.

Ron and Hermione, meanwhile, had found a place in the stands next to
Neville, who couldn't understand why they looked so grim and worried, or
why they had both brought their wands to the match. Little did Harry
know that Ron and Hermione had been secretly practicing the Leg-Locker
Curse. They'd gotten the idea from Malfoy using it on Neville, and were
ready to use it on Snape if he showed any sign of wanting to hurt Harry.


t forget, it
 Hermione muttered as Ron
slipped his wand up his sleeve.


 Ron snapped. 
t nag."

Back in the locker room, Wood had taken Harry aside.

"Don
s now. Finish the game before Snape can favor
Hufflepuff too much."

"The whole school
 said Fred Weasley, peering out of the
door. 
s come to watch!"

Harry
Dumbledore?
I've never seen Snape look so mean,
Look -they're
off Ouch!
Oh, sorry, Weasley, didn't see you there.
Wonder how long Potter's going to stay on his broom this time? Anyone
want a bet? What about you, Weasley?
t answer; Snape had just awarded Hufflepuff a penalty because
George Weasley had hit a Bludger at him. Hermione, who had all her
fingers crossed in her lap, was squinting fixedly at Harry, who was
circling the game like a hawk, looking for the Snitch.

"You know how I think they choose people for the Gryffindor team?" said
Malfoy loudly a few minutes later, as Snape awarded Hufflepuff another
penalty for no reason at all. "It
s Potter, who
s the Weasleys, who
ve got no
brains."

Neville went bright red but turned in his seat to face Malfoy.

"I
 he stammered.

Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle howled with laughter, but Ron, still not
daring to take his eyes from the game, said, 



d be poorer than Weasley, and
that


Ron's nerves were already stretched to the breaking point with anxiety
about Harry.


m warning you, Malfoy -- one more word

"Ron!" said Hermione suddenly, "Harry --"

"What? Where?"

Harry had suddenly gone into a spectacular dive, which drew gasps and
cheers from the crowd. Hermione stood up, her crossed fingers in her
mouth, as Harry streaked toward the ground like a bullet.

"You
s obviously spotted some money on the
ground!" said Malfoy.

Ron snapped. Before Malfoy knew what was happening, Ron was on top of
him, wrestling him to the ground. Neville hesitated, then clambered over
the back of his seat to help.

"Come on, Harry!" Hermione screamed, leaping onto her seat to watch as
Harry sped straight at Snape -- she didn
Ron! Ron! Where are you? The game's over! Harry's won! We've won!
Gryffindor is in the lead!
t believe
it. He
s smiling face.

"Well done," said Dumbledore quietly, so that only Harry could hear.
"Nice to see you haven


Snape spat bitterly on the ground.

Harry left the locker room alone some time later, to take his Nimbus Two
Thousand back to the broomshed. He couldn't ever remember feeling
happier. He'd really done something to be proud of now -- no one could
say he was just a famous name any more. The evening air had never
smelled so sweet. He walked over the damp grass, reliving the last hour
in his head, which was a happy blur: Gryffindors running to lift him
onto their shoulders; Ron and Hermione in the distance, jumping up and
down, Ron cheering through a heavy nosebleed.

Harry had reached the shed. He leaned against the wooden door and looked
up at Hogwarts, with its windows glowing red in the setting sun.
Gryffindor in the lead. He'd done it, he'd shown Snape....

And speaking of Snape...

A hooded figure came swiftly down the front steps of the castle. Clearly
not wanting to be seen, it walked as fast as possible toward the
forbidden forest. Harry's victory faded from his mind as he watched. He
recognized the figure's prowling walk. Snape, sneaking into the forest
while everyone else was at dinner -- what was going on?

Harry jumped back on his Nimbus Two Thousand and took off. Gliding
silently over the castle he saw Snape enter the forest at a run. He
followed.

The trees were so thick he couldn't see where Snape had gone. He flew in
circles, lower and lower, brushing the top branches of trees until he
heard voices. He glided toward them and landed noiselessly in a towering
beech tree.

He climbed carefully along one of the branches, holding tight to his
broomstick, trying to see through the leaves. Below, in a shadowy
clearing, stood Snape, but he wasn't alone. Quirrell was there, too.
Harry couldn't make out the look on his face, but he was stuttering
worse than ever. Harry strained to catch what they were saying.


t know why you wanted t-t-to meet here of all p-places,
Severus..."

"Oh, I thought we
 said Snape, his voice icy.

t supposed to know about the Sorcerer


Harry leaned forward. Quirrell was mumbling something. Snape interrupted
him.


s yet?"

"B-b-but Severus, I --"

"You don
 said Snape, taking a step
toward him.


t know what you

"You know perfectly well what I mean."

An owl hooted loudly, and Harry nearly fell out of the tree. He steadied
himself in time to hear Snape say, "-- your little bit of hocus-pocus.
I



t --"

"Very well," Snape cut in. "We
ve had time to think things over and decided where your loyalties
lie."

He threw his cloak over his head and strode out of the clearing. It was
almost dark now, but Harry could see Quirrell, standing quite still as
though he was petrified.

"Harry, where have you been?" Hermione squeaked.

"We won! You won! We won!" shouted Ron, thumping Harry on the back. "And
I gave Malfoy a black eye, and Neville tried to take on Crabbe and Goyle
single-handed! He
ll be all
right - talk about showing Slytherin! Everyone
re having a party, Fred and George stole some cakes and
stuff from the kitchens."

"Never mind that now," said Harry breathlessly. "Let
til you hear this...."

He made sure Peeves wasn
d seen and heard.

"So we were right, it is the Sorcerer
s trying to
force Quirrell to help him get it. He asked if he knew how to get past
Fluffy - and he said something about Quirrell
hocus pocuss-- I reckon
there are other things guarding the stone apart from Fluffy, loads of
enchantments, probably, and Quirrell would have done some anti-Dark Arts
spell that Snape needs to break through --"

"So you mean the Stone
 said Hermione in alarm.


ll be gone by next Tuesday," said Ron.


CHAPTER FOURTEEN

NORBERT THE NORWEGIAN RIDGEBACK

Quirrell, however, must have been braver than they
t look as though he
s stutter.

Hermione, however, had more on her mind than the Sorcerer
t have minded, but she kept nagging them to do the
same.

"Hermione, the exams are ages away."

"Ten weeks," Hermione snapped. "That
s like a second to
Nicolas Flamel."

"But we
 Ron reminded her. 



re very important, I
should have started studying a month ago, I don
s gotten
into me...."

Unfortunately, the teachers seemed to be thinking along the same lines
as Hermione. They piled so much homework on them that the Easter
holidays weren
s
blood or practicing wand movements. Moaning and yawning, Harry and Ron
spent most of their free time in the library with her, trying to get
through all their extra work.

"I
 Ron burst out one afternoon, throwing down
his quill and looking longingly out of the library window. It was the
first really fine day they'd had in months. The sky was a clear,
forget-me-not blue, and there was a feeling in the air of summer coming.

Harry, who was looking up 
 in One Thousand Magical Herbs and
Fungi, didn't look up until he heard Ron say, 


Hagrid shuffled into view, hiding something behind his back. He looked
very out of place in his moleskin overcoat.


 lookin
 he said, in a shifty voice that got their interest at
once. 
 what
 He looked suddenly suspicious. 
 fer Nicolas Flamel, are yeh?" "Oh, we found out who he
is ages ago," said Ron impressively. "And we know what that dog
s a Sorcerer



 Hagrid looked around quickly to see if anyone was listening.

 go shoutin
s the matter with yeh?"

"There are a few things we wanted to ask you, as a matter of fact," said
Harry, "about what



 said Hagrid again. 
 see me later, I
 I
, mind, but don
 about it
in here, students aren
pposed ter know. They
ve told yeh
--"

"See you later, then," said Harry.

Hagrid shuffled off.

"What was he hiding behind his back?" said Hermione thoughtfully.

"Do you think it had anything to do with the Stone?"

"I
 said Ron, who'd had enough of
working. He came back a minute later with a pile of books in his arms
and slammed them down on the table.


 he whispered. 
s Guide."

"Hagrid
 said Harry.


s against our laws," said Ron. "Dragon breeding was outlawed by
the Warlocks
s hard to stop
Muggles from noticing us if we
t tame dragons, it
s got off wild ones in Romania."

"But there aren
 said Harry.


 said Ron. 
ve spotted them, to
make them forget."

"So what on earths Hagrid up to?" said Hermione.

When they knocked on the door of the gamekeeper
Who is it?
So -- yeh wanted to ask me somethin'?
Yes,
We were
wondering if you could tell us what's guarding the Sorcerer's Stone
apart from Fluffy.
0' course I cant, he said. 
 know meself. Number two,
yeh know too much already, so I wouldn
s here fer a good reason. It Was almost stolen outta Gringotts - I
s
ve worked that out an

Fluffy."

"Oh, come on, Hagrid, you might not want to tell us, but you do know,
you know everything that goes on round here," said Hermione in a warm,
flattering voice. Hagrid
We only wondered who had done the guarding, really.
We wondered who Dumbledore had trusted enough to help him,
apart from you.
s chest swelled at these last words. Harry and Ron beamed at
Hermione.

"Well, I don
pose it could hurt ter tell yeh that... let
 the teachers did enchantments...
Professor Sprout -- Professor Flitwick -- Professor McGonagall --" he
ticked them off on his fingers, "Professor Quirrell -- an
, o
ve forgotten someone. Oh
yeah, Professor Snape."

"Snape?"

"Yeah -- yer not still on abou
s not about ter steal it."

Harry knew Ron and Hermione were thinking the same as he was. If Snape
had been in on protecting the Stone, it must have been easy to find out
how the other teachers had guarded it. He probably knew everything --
except, it seemed, Quirrell
You're the only one who knows how to get past Fluffy. aren't you,
Hagrid?
And you wouldn't tell anyone, would you?
Not even one of the teachers?
Not a soul knows except me an' Dumbledore,
Well, that's something,
Hagrid, can we
have a window open? I'm boiling.
Can't, Harry, sorry,
Hagrid -- what's that?
Ah,
That's er...
Where did you get it, Hagrid?
It must've cost you a fortune.
Won it,
Las' night. I was down in the village havin' a
few drinks an' got into a game o' cards with a stranger. Think he was
quite glad ter get rid of it, ter be honest.
But what are you going to do with it when it's hatched?
Well, I've bin doin' some readin' , said Hagrid, pulling a large book
from under his pillow. 
s a bit outta date, o
s
all in here. Keep the egg in the fire, 
 when it hatches, feed it on a bucket o
 see here -- how ter recognize
diff
s a Norwegian Ridgeback. They


He looked very pleased with himself, but Hermione didn't.


 she said.

But Hagrid wasn't listening. He was humming merrily as he stoked the
fire.

So now they had something else to worry about: what might happen to
Hagrid if anyone found out he was hiding an illegal dragon in his hut.

s like to have a peaceful life," Ron sighed, as evening
after evening they struggled through all the extra homework they were
getting. Hermione had now started making study schedules for Harry and
Ron, too. It was driving them nuts.

Then, one breakfast time, Hedwig brought Harry another note from Hagrid.
He had written only two words: It
t hear of it.

"Hermione, how many times in our lives are we going to see a dragon
hatching?"

"We
ll get into trouble, and that
s going to be in when someone finds out what he



 Harry whispered.

Malfoy was only a few feet away and he had stopped dead to listen. How
much had he heard? Harry didn't like the look on Malfoy's face at all.

Ron and Hermione argued all the way to Herbology and in the end,
Hermione agreed to run down to Hagrid's with the other two during
morning break. When the bell sounded from the castle at the end of their
lesson, the three of them dropped their trowels at once and hurried
through the grounds to the edge of the forest. Hagrid greeted them,
looking flushed and excited.


s nearly out." He ushered them inside.

The egg was lying on the table. There were deep cracks in it. Something
was moving inside; a funny clicking noise was coming from it.

They all drew their chairs up to the table and watched with bated
breath.

All at once there was a scraping noise and the egg split open. The baby
dragon flopped onto the table. It wasn
Isn't he beautiful?
s head. It snapped at his fingers, showing pointed fangs.

"Bless him, look, he knows his mommy!" said Hagrid.

"Hagrid," said Hermione, "how fast do Norwegian Ridgebacks grow,
exactly?"

Hagrid was about to answer when the color suddenly drained from his face
-- he leapt to his feet and ran to the window.

"What



 through the gap in the curtains -- it
s runnin


Harry bolted to the door and looked out. Even at a distance there was no
mistaking him.

Malfoy had seen the dragon.

Something about the smile lurking on Malfoy's face during the next week
made Harry, Ron, and Hermione very nervous. They spent most of their
free time in Hagrid's darkened hut, trying to reason with him.


 Harry urged. 



t," said Hagrid. "He
d die."

They looked at the dragon. It had grown three times in length in just a
week. Smoke kept furling out of its nostrils. Hagrid hadn
I've decided to call him Norbert,
He really knows me now, watch. Norbert! Norbert!
Where's Mommy?
He's lost his marbles,
s ear.

"Hagrid," said Harry loudly, "give it two weeks and Norbert


Hagrid bit his lip.


t keep him forever, but I can
 dump him, I
can


Harry suddenly turned to Ron. Charlie, he said.


re losing it, too," said Ron. "I






 said Ron. 


And in the end, Hagrid agreed that they could send -an owl to Charlie to
ask him.

The following week dragged by. Wednesday night found Hermione and Harry
sitting alone in the common room, long after everyone else had gone to
bed. The clock on the wall had just

chimed midnight when the portrait hole burst open. Ron appeared out of
nowhere as he pulled off Harry's invisibility cloak. He had been down at
Hagrid's hut, helping him feed Norbert, who was now eating dead rats by
the crate.


 he said, showing them his hand, which was wrapped in a
bloody handkerchief. 
m not going to be able to hold a quill for a
week. I tell you, that dragon
ve ever met,
but the way Hagrid goes on about it, you


There was a tap on the dark window.


s Hedwig!" said Harry, hurrying to let her in. "She
s answer!"

The three of them put their heads together to read the note.

Dear Ron,

How are you? Thanks for the letter -- I
t be easy getting him here. I think the best thing
will be to send him over with some friends of mine who are coming to
visit me next week. Trouble is, they mustn
s still
dark.

Send me an answer as soon as possible.

Love,

Charlie

They looked at one another.

"We
 said Harry. 
t be too
difficult -- I think the cloaks big enough to cover two of us and
Norbert."

It was a mark of how bad the last week had been that the other two
agreed with him. Anything to get rid of Norbert -- and Malfoy.

There was a hitch. By the next morning, Ron
t know whether it was safe to go to Madam
Pomfrey -- would she recognize a dragon bite? By the afternoon, though,
he had no choice. The cut had turned a nasty shade of green. It looked
as if Norbert
It's not just my hand,
although that feels like it's
about to fall off. Malfoy told Madam Pomfrey he wanted to borrow one of
my books so he could come and have a good laugh at me. He kept
threatening to tell her what really bit me -- I've told her it was a
dog, but I don't think she believes me -I shouldn't have hit him at the
Quidditch match, that's why he's doing this.
It'll all be over at midnight on Saturday,
t soothe Ron at all. On the contrary, he sat bolt upright and broke
into a sweat.

"Midnight on Saturday!" he said in a hoarse voice. "Oh no oh no -- I
s letter was in that book Malfoy took, he
re getting rid of Norbert."

Harry and Hermione didn
It's too late to change the plan now,
We haven't
got time to send Charlie another owl, and this could be our only chance
to get rid of Norbert. We'll have to risk it. And we have got the
invisibility cloak, Malfoy doesn't know about that.
I won't let you in,
Norbert's at a tricky stage -- nothin'
I can't handle.
s letter, his eyes filled with tears,
although that might have been because Norbert had just bitten him on the
leg.

"Aargh! It
 playin
s only
a baby, after all."

The baby banged its tail on the wall, making the windows rattle. Harry
and Hermione walked back to the castle feeling Saturday couldn
t been so worried about what they had
to do. It was a very dark, cloudy night, and they were a bit late
arriving at Hagrid
d had to wait for Peeves to get
out of their way in the entrance hall, where he
He's got lots o' rats an' some brandy fer the journey,
An' I've packed his teddy bear in case he gets
lonely.
Bye-bye, Norbert!
Mommy will never forget you!
s shortcuts didn
Nearly there!
Detention!
And twenty points from Slytherin! Wandering
around in the middle of the night, how dare you --
You don't understand, Professor. Harry Potter's coming -- he's got a
dragon!
What utter rubbish! How dare you tell such lies! Come on -- I shall see
Professor Snape about you, Malfoy!
d stepped out into the
cold night air did they throw off the cloak, glad to be able to breathe
properly again. Hermione did a sort of jig.

"Malfoy



t," Harry advised her.

Chuckling about Malfoy, they waited, Norbert thrashing about in his
crate. About ten minutes later, four broomsticks came swooping down out
of the darkness.

Charlie
d rigged up, so they could suspend Norbert between them.
They all helped buckle Norbert safely into it and then Harry and
Hermione shook hands with the others and thanked them very much.

At last, Norbert was going... going... gone.

They slipped back down the spiral staircase, their hearts as light as
their hands, now that Norbert was off them. No more dragon -- Malfoy in
detention -- what could spoil their happiness?

The answer to that was waiting at the foot of the stairs. As they
stepped into the corridor, Filch
Well, well, well,
we are in trouble.
d left the invisibility cloak on top of the tower.


CHAPTER FIFTEEN

THE FORIBIDDEN FOREST

Things couldn
s study on the first floor,
where they sat and waited without saying a word to each other. Hermione
was trembling. Excuses, alibis, and wild cover- up stories chased each
other around Harry
t
see how they were going to get out of trouble this time. They were
cornered. How could they have been so stupid as to forget the cloak?
There was no reason on earth that Professor McGonagall would accept for
their being out of bed and creeping around the school in the dead of
night, let alone being up the tallest astronomy tower, which was
out-of-bounds except for classes. Add Norbert and the invisibility
cloak, and they might as well be packing their bags already.

Had Harry thought that things couldn
Harry!
I was
trying to find you to warn you, I heard Malfoy saying he was going to
catch you, he said you had a drag --
I would never have believed it of any of you. Mr. Filch says you were
up in the astronomy tower. It's one o'clock in the morning. Explain
yourselves.
s
question. She was staring at her slippers, as still as a statue.

"I think I
s been going on," said Professor
McGonagall. "It doesn
ve already caught him. I suppose you think it


Harry caught Neville's eye and tried to tell him without words that this
wasn't true, because Neville was looking stunned and hurt. Poor,
blundering Neville -- Harry knew what it must have cost him to try and
find them in the dark, to warn them.


m disgusted," said Professor McGonagall. "Four students out of bed in
one night! I
s very dangerous -- and fifty
points will be taken from Gryffindor."

"Fifty?" Harry gasped -- they would lose the lead, the lead he
Fifty points each,
Professor -- please


t --"

"Don
t do, Potter. Now get back to bed, all
of you. I


A hundred and fifty points lost. That put Gryffindor in last place. In
one night, they'd ruined any chance Gryffindor had had for the house
cup. Harry felt as though the bottom had dropped out of his stomach. How
could they ever make up for this?

Harry didn't sleep all night. He could hear Neville sobbing into his
pillow for what seemed like hours. Harry couldn't think of anything to
say to comfort him. He knew Neville, like himself, was dreading the
dawn. What would happen when the rest of Gryffindor found out what
they'd done?

At first, Gryffindors passing the giant hourglasses that recorded the
house points the next day thought there'd been a mistake. How could they
suddenly have a hundred and fifty points fewer than yesterday? And then
the story started to spread: Harry Potter, the famous Harry Potter,
their hero of two Quidditch matches, had lo st them all those points,
him and a couple of other stupid first years.

From being one of the most popular and admired people at the school,
Harry was suddenly the most hated. Even Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs
turned on him, because everyone had been longing to see Slytherin lose
the house cup. Everywhere Harry went, people pointed and didn't trouble
to lower their voices as they insulted him. Slytherins, on the other
hand, clapped as he walked past them, whistling and cheering, 


Only Ron stood by him.


ll all forget this in a few weeks. Fred and George have lost loads
of points in all the time they



ve never lost a hundred and fifty points in one go, though, have
they?" said Harry miserably.

"Well -- no," Ron admitted.

It was a bit late to repair the damage, but Harry swore to himself not
to meddle in things that weren
d had it
with sneaking around and spying. He felt so ashamed of himself that he
went to Wood and offered to resign from the Quidditch team.

"Resign?" Wood thundered. "What good
t win at Quidditch?"

But even Quidditch had lost its fun. The rest of the team wouldn
the Seeker.
t have as bad a time
as Harry, because they weren
t far away. All the studying
he had to do kept his mind off his misery. He, Ron, and Hermione kept to
themselves, working late into the night, trying to remember the
ingredients in complicated potions, learn charms and spells by heart,
memorize the dates of magical discoveries and goblin rebellions....

Then, about a week before the exams were due to start, Harry
t concern him was put
to an unexpected test. Walking back from the library on his own one
afternoon, he heard somebody whimpering from a classroom up ahead. As he
drew closer, he heard Quirrell
No -- no -- not again, please --
All right -- all right --
t think Quirrell had even noticed him.
He waited until Quirrell
d promised
himself about not meddling.

All the same, he
s Stones that Snape had
just left the room, and from what Harry had just heard, Snape would be
walking with a new spring in his step -- Quirrell seemed to have given
in at last.

Harry went back to the library, where Hermione was testing Ron on
Astronomy. Harry told them what he
Snape's done it, then!
If Quirrell's told him how to break
his Anti-Dark Force spell --
There's still Fluffy, though,
Maybe Snape's found out how to get past him without asking Hagrid,
I bet
there's a book somewhere in here telling you how to get past a giant
three-headed dog. So what do we do, Harry?
s eyes, but Hermione
answered before Harry could.

"Go to Dumbledore. That
ll be thrown out for sure."

"But we
 said Harry. 
s too scared to back us
up. Snape
t know how the troll got in at
Halloween and that he was nowhere near the third floor -- who do you
think they
s not exactly a secret we hate him,
Dumbledore
t help
us if his life depended on it, he
ll think. And don
re not supposed to know about the Stone or Fluffy. That


Hermione looked convinced, but Ron didn't.





 said Harry flatly, 
ve done enough poking around."

He pulled a map of Jupiter toward him and started to learn the names of
its moons.

The following morning, notes were delivered to Harry, Hermione, and
Neville at the breakfast table. They were all the same:

Your detention will take place at eleven o
d lost. He half expected Hermione to
complain that this was a whole night of studying lost, but she didn
d got.

At eleven o
Follow me,
ll think twice about breaking a school rule again, won
 he said, leering at them. 
s just a pity they let the old
punishments die out... hang you by your wrists from the ceiling for a
few days, I
em well oiled in
case they
t think of
running off, now, it


They marched off across the dark grounds. Neville kept sniffing. Harry
wondered what their punishment was going to be. It must be something
really horrible, or Filch wouldn't be sounding so delighted.

The moon was bright, but clouds scudding across it kept throwing them
into darkness. Ahead, Harry could see the lighted windows of Hagrid's
hut. Then they heard a distant shout.




Harry's heart rose; if they were going to be working with Hagrid it
wouldn't be so bad. His relief must have showed in his -face, because
Filch said, 
ll be enjoying yourself with that
oaf? Well, think again, boy -- it
re going and I
ll all come out in one piece."

At this, Neville let out a little moan, and Malfoy stopped dead in his
tracks.

"The forest?" he repeated, and he didn
We can't go in there at night -- there's all sorts of things in there
-- werewolves, I heard.
s robe and made a choking noise.

"That
t it?" said Filch, his voice cracking with
glee. "Should
t you?"

Hagrid came striding toward them out of the dark, Fang at his heel. He
was carrying his large crossbow, and a quiver of arrows hung over his
shoulder.

"Abou
 he said. 
 fer half an hour already. All
right, Harry, Hermione?"

"I shouldn
 said Filch coldly,
they're here to be punished, after all.
That's why yer late, is it?
Bin
lecturin' them, eh? 'Snot your place ter do that. Yeh've done yer bit,
I'll take over from here.
I'll be back at dawn,
for what's left of them,
I'm not going in that forest, he said, and Harry was pleased to hear
the note of panic in his voice.


 said Hagrid fiercely.

ve done wrong an



s not for students to do. I thought we
d

tell yer that
 Hagrid growled. 
 lines!
What good
ll do summat useful or Yeh
d rather you were expelled, then get back off
ter the castle an
'

Malfoy didn't move. He looked at Hagrid furiously, but then dropped his
gaze.


 said Hagrid, 
cause it
re gonna do tonight, an
 want no one takin


He led them to the very edge of the forest. Holding his lamp up high, he
pointed down a narrow, winding earth track that disappeared into the
thick black trees. A light breeze lifted their hair as they looked into
the forest.


 said Hagrid, 
 on the ground?
Silvery stuff? That
s a unicorn in there bin hurt
badly by summat. This is the second time in a week. I found one dead
last Wednesday. We
 find the poor thing. We might have
ter put it out of its misery."

"And what if whatever hurt the unicorn finds us first?" said Malfoy,
unable to keep the fear out of his voice.

"There
 that lives in the forest that
 said Hagrid. 
 keep ter the path. Right, now, we
 follow the trail in diff
s blood all over the place, it must

around since last night at least."

"I want Fang," said Malfoy quickly, looking at Fang
All right, but I warn yeh, he's a coward,
 So me, Harry,
an' Hermione'll go one way an' Draco, Neville, an' Fang'll go the other.
Now, if any of us finds the unicorn, we'll send up green sparks, right?
Get yer wands out an' practice now -- that's it -- an' if anyone gets in
trouble, send up red sparks, an' we'll all come an' find yeh -- so, be
careful -- let's go.
Could a werewolf be killing the unicorns?
Not fast enough,
It's not easy ter catch a unicorn,
they're powerful magic creatures. I never knew one ter be hurt before.
You all right, Hermione?
Don' worry, it can't've
gone far if it's this badly hurt, an' then we'll be able ter -- GET
BEHIND THAT TREE!
I knew it, 
There's summat in here that shouldn' be.
A werewolf?
That wasn' no werewolf an' it wasn' no unicorn, neither,
Right, follow me, but careful, now.
Who's there?
Show yerself -- I'm armed!
s gleaming
chestnut body with a long, reddish tail. Harry and Hermione
Oh, it's you, Ronan,
How are yeh?
s hand.

"Good evening to you, Hagrid," said Ronan. He had a deep, sorrowful
voice. "Were you going to shoot me?"

"Can
 said Hagrid, patting his crossbow.

s summat bad loose in this forest. This is Harry Potter an
 this is
Ronan, you two. He
We'd noticed,
Good evening,
Students, are you? And do you learn much,
up at the school?
Erm --
A bit,
A bit. Well, that's something.
Mars is bright tonight.
Yeah,
Listen, I'm glad we've run inter
yeh, Ronan, 'cause there's a unicorn bin hurt -- you seen anythin'?
t answer immediately. He stared unblinkingly upward, then
sighed again.

"Always the innocent are the first victims," he said. "So it has been
for ages past, so it is now."

"Yeah," said Hagrid, "but have yeh seen anythin

unusual?"

"Mars is bright tonight," Ronan repeated, while Hagrid watched him
impatiently. "Unusually bright."

"Yeah, but I was meanin
 unusual a bit nearer home, said
Hagrid. "So yeh haven
 strange?"

Yet again, Ronan took a while to answer. At last, he said, "The forest
hides many secrets."

A movement in the trees behind Ronan made Hagrid raise his bow again,
but it was only a second centaur, black-haired and -bodied and
wilder-looking than Ronan.

"Hullo, Bane," said Hagrid. "All right?"

"Good evening, Hagrid, I hope you are well?"

"Well enough. Look, I
 bin askin
 odd in
here lately? There

about it?"

Bane walked over to stand next to Ronan. He looked skyward. "Mars is
bright tonight," he said simply.

"We
 said Hagrid grumpily. 
, let me know, won
ll be off, then."

Harry and Hermione followed him out of the clearing, staring over their
shoulders at Ronan and Bane until the trees blocked their view.

"Never," said Hagrid irritably, "try an
 closer



 asked Hermione.


re
good enough about turnin
re deep, mind,
centaurs... they know things... jus
 let on much."

"D
 said Harry.


s
bin killin
 like it before."

They walked on through the dense, dark trees. Harry kept looking
nervously over his shoulder. He had the nasty feeling they were being
watched. He was very glad they had Hagrid and his crossbow with them.
They had just passed a bend in the path when Hermione grabbed Hagrid
Hagrid! Look! Red sparks, the others are in trouble!
You two wait here!
Stay on the path, I'll come back
for yeh!
t hear anything but the
rustling of leaves around them.

"You don
ve been hurt, do you?" whispered Hermione.

"I don
s got Neville... it
s here in the first place."

The minutes dragged by. Their ears seemed sharper than usual. Harry
s return. Malfoy,
Neville, and Fang were with him. Hagrid was fuming. Malfoy, it seemed,
had sneaked up behind Neville and grabbed him as a joke. Neville had
panicked and sent up the sparks.

"We
 now, with the racket you two were
makin
re changin

Hermione, Harry, you go with Fang an
m sorry," Hagrid
added in a whisper to Harry, "but he

you, an
ve gotta get this done."

So Harry set off into the heart of the forest with Malfoy and Fang. They
walked for nearly half an hour, deeper and deeper into the forest, until
the path became almost impossible to follow because the trees were so
thick. Harry thought the blood seemed to be getting thicker. There were
splashes on the roots of a tree, as though the poor creature had been
thrashing around in pain close by. Harry could see a clearing ahead,
through the tangled branches of an ancient oak.

"Look --" he murmured, holding out his arm to stop Malfoy.

Something bright white was gleaming on the ground. They inched closer.

It was the unicorn all right, and it was dead. Harry had never seen
anything so beautiful and sad. Its long, slender legs were stuck out at
odd angles where it had fallen and its mane was spread pearly-white on
the dark leaves.

Harry had taken one step toward it when a slithering sound made him
freeze where he stood. A bush on the edge of the clearing quivered....
Then, out of the shadows, a hooded figure came crawling across the
ground like some stalking beast. Harry, Malfoy, and Fang stood
transfixed. The cloaked figure reached the unicorn, lowered its head
over the wound in the animal
AAAAAAAAAARGH!
t move for fear.

Then a pain like he
s head was so bad he fell to his knees. It took a
minute or two to pass. When he looked up, the figure had gone. A centaur
was standing over him, not Ronan or Bane; this one looked younger; he
had white-blond hair and a palomino body.

"Are you all right?" said the centaur, pulling Harry to his feet.

"Yes -- thank you -- what was that?"

The centaur didn
s forehead.

"You are the Potter boy," he said. "You had better get back to Hagrid.
The forest is not safe at this time -- especially for you. Can you ride?
It will be quicker this way.

"My name is Firenze," he added, as he lowered himself on to his front
legs so that Harry could clamber onto his back.

There was suddenly a sound of more galloping from the other side of the
clearing. Ronan and Bane came bursting through the trees, their flanks
heaving and sweaty.

"Firenze!" Bane thundered. "What are you doing? You have a human on your
back! Have you no shame? Are you a common mule?"

"Do you realize who this is?" said Firenze. "This is the Potter boy. The
quicker he leaves this forest, the better."

"What have you been telling him?" growled Bane. "Remember, Firenze, we
are sworn not to set ourselves against the heavens. Have we not read
what is to come in the movements of the planets?"

Ronan pawed the ground nervously. "I
 he said in his gloomy voice.

Bane kicked his back legs in anger.




Firenze suddenly reared on to his hind legs in anger, so that Harry had
to grab his shoulders to stay on.


 Firenze bellowed at Bane. 


And Firenze whisked around; with Harry clutching on as best he could,
they plunged off into the trees, leaving Ronan and Bane behind them.

Harry didn't have a clue what was going on.


s Bane so angry?" he asked. "What was that thing you saved me from,
anyway?"

Firenze slowed to a walk, warned Harry to keep his head bowed in case of
low-hanging branches, but did not answer Harry
t want to talk to him anymore. They were passing through a
particularly dense patch of trees, however, when Firenze suddenly
stopped.

"Harry Potter, do you know what unicorn blood is used -for?"

"No," said Harry, startled by the odd question. "We



 said
Firenze. 


Harry stared at the back of Firenze's head, which was dappled silver in
the moonlight.


d be that desperate?" he wondered aloud. "If you
t it?"

"It is," Firenze agreed, "unless all you need is to stay alive long
enough to drink something else -- something that will bring you back to
full strength and power -- something that will mean you can never die.
Mr. Potter, do you know what is hidden in the school at this very
moment?"

"The Sorcerer
t
understand who --"

"Can you think of nobody who has waited many years to return to power,
who has clung to life, awaiting their chance?"

It was as though an iron fist had clenched suddenly around Harry
Some say he died.
Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if he had enough human left in him to
die.
Do you mean,
that was Vol-
Harry! Harry, are you all right?
I'm fine,
The
unicorn's dead, Hagrid, it's in that clearing back there.
This is where I leave you,
You are safe now.
Good luck, Harry Potter,
The planets have been read
wrongly before now, even by centaurs. I hope this is one of those
times.
t sit down. He paced up and down in front of the fire. He
was still shaking.

"Snape wants the stone for Voldemort... and Voldemort



 said Ron in a terrified whisper, as if he
thought Voldemort could hear them.

Harry wasn't listening.


t have done so.... Bane was furious...
he was talking about interfering with what the planets say is going to
happen.... They must show that Voldemort
s written
in the stars as well."

"Will you stop saying the name!" Ron hissed.

"So all I
 Harry
went on feverishly, 
ll be happy."

Hermione looked very frightened, but she had a word of comfort.

"Harry, everyone says Dumbledore
t touch you. Anyway,
who says the centaurs are right? It sounds like fortune-telling to me,
and Professor McGonagall says that


The sky had turned light before they stopped talking. They went to bed
exhausted, their throats sore. But the night's surprises weren't over.

When Harry pulled back his sheets, he found his invisibility cloak
folded neatly underneath them. There was a note pinned to it:

Just in case.


CHAPTER SIXTEEN

THROUGH THE TRAPDOOR

In years to come, Harry would never quite remember how he had managed to
get through his exams when he half expected Voldemort to come bursting
through the door at any moment. Yet the days crept by, and there could
be no doubt that Fluffy was still alive and well behind the locked door.

It was sweltering hot, especially in the large classroom where they did
their written papers. They had been given special, new quills for the
exams, which had been bewitched with an AntiCheating spell.

They had practical exams as well. Professor Flitwick called them one by
one into his class to see if they could make a pineapple tapdance across
a desk. Professor McGonagall watched them turn a mouse into a snuffbox
-- points were given for how pretty the snuffbox was, but taken away if
it had whiskers. Snape made them all nervous, breathing down their necks
while they tried to remember how to make a Forgetfulness potion.

Harry did the best he could, trying to ignore the stabbing pains in his
forehead, which had been bothering him ever since his trip into the
forest. Neville thought Harry had a bad case of exam nerves because
Harry couldn't sleep, but the truth was that Harry kept being woken by
his old nightmare, except that it was now worse than ever because there
was a hooded figure dripping blood in it.

Maybe it was because they hadn't seen what Harry had seen in the forest,
or because they didn't have scars burning on their foreheads, but Ron
and Hermione didn't seem as worried about the Stone as Harry. The idea
of Voldemort certainly scared them, but he didn't keep visiting them in
dreams, and they were so busy with their studying they didn't have much
time to fret about what Snape or anyone else might be up to.

Their very last exam was History of Magic. One hour of answering
questions about batty old wizards who'd invented selfstirring cauldrons
and they'd be free, free for a whole wonderful week until their exam
results came out. When the ghost of Professor Binns told them to put
down their quills and roll up their parchment, Harry couldn't help
cheering with the rest.


 said Hermione as they
joined the crowds flocking out onto the sunny grounds. 
t have
learned about the 1637 Werewolf Code of Conduct or the uprising of
Elfric the Eager."

Hermione always liked to go through their exam papers afterward, but Ron
said this made him feel ill, so they wandered down to the lake and
flopped under a tree. The Weasley twins and Lee Jordan were tickling the
tentacles of a giant squid, which was basking in the warm shallows. "No
more studying," Ron sighed happily, stretching out on the grass. "You
could look more cheerful, Harry, we
ve done, there


Harry was rubbing his forehead.


 he burst out angrily. 
s happened before, but never as often as this."

"Go to Madam Pomfrey," Hermione suggested.

"I
 said Harry. 
s a warning... it means danger


Ron couldn't get worked up, it was too hot.


s right, the Stone
s around. Anyway, we
s not
going to try it again in a hurry. And Neville will play Quidditch for
England before Hagrid lets Dumbledore down."

Harry nodded, but he couldn
d forgotten to do, something important. When he tried to
explain this, Hermione said, "That
d done that one."

Harry was quite sure the unsettled feeling didn
Where're you going?
I've just thought of something,
We've got to go and see Hagrid, now.
Why?
Don't you think it's a bit odd,
that what Hagrid wants more than anything else is a dragon, and
a stranger turns up who just happens to have an egg in his pocket? How
many people wander around with dragon eggs if it's against wizard law?
Lucky they found Hagrid, don't you think? Why didn't I see it before?
What are you talking about?
t answer.

Hagrid was sitting in an armchair outside his house; his trousers and
sleeves were rolled up, and he was shelling peas into a large bowl.

"Hullo," he said, smiling. "Finished yer exams? Got time fer a drink?"

"Yes, please," said Ron, but Harry cut him off.

"No, we
ve got to ask you something. You know
that night you won Norbert? What did the stranger you were playing cards
with look like?"

"Dunno," said Hagrid casually, "he wouldn


He saw the three of them look stunned and raised his eyebrows.


s not that unusual, yeh get a lot o
s Head --
that

he? I never saw his face, he kept his hood up."

Harry sank down next to the bowl of peas. "What did you talk to him
about, Hagrid? Did you mention Hogwarts at all?"

"Mighta come up," said Hagrid, frowning as he tried to remember.
"Yeah... he asked what I did, an
 I said what I

then... I can
cause he kept buyin
s see... yeah, then he said he had the dragon egg an
 want it ter go ter any old home.... So I told him, after Fluffy, a
dragon would be easy..."

"And did he -- did he seem interested in Fluffy?" Harry asked, try ing
to keep his voice calm.

"Well -- yeah -- how many three-headed dogs d
s a piece o
 play him a bit o
 he


Hagrid suddenly looked horrified.


ta told yeh that!" he blurted out. "Forget I said it! Hey --
where
?"

Harry, Ron, and Hermione didn
We've got to go to Dumbledore,
Hagrid told that stranger
how to get past Fluffy, and it was either Snape or Voldemort under that
cloak -- it must've been easy, once he'd got Hagrid drunk. I just hope
Dumbledore believes us. Firenze might back us up if Bane doesn't stop
him. Where's Dumbledore's office?
We'll just have to --
What are you three doing inside?
We want to see Professor Dumbledore,
See Professor Dumbledore?
Why?
It's sort of secret,
t, because
Professor McGonagall
Professor Dumbledore left ten minutes ago,
He
received an urgent owl from the Ministry of Magic and flew off for
London at once.
He's gone?
Now?
Professor Dumbledore is a very great wizard, Potter, he has many
demands on his time --





Look,
Professor -- it's
about the Sorcerer's tone --
t that. The books
she was carrying tumbled out of her arms, but she didn
How do you know --?
Professor, I think -- I know -- that Sn- that someone's going to try
and steal the Stone. I've got to talk to Professor Dumbledore.
Professor Dumbledore will be back tomorrow,
t
know how you found out about the Stone, but rest assured, no one can
possibly steal it, it






m talking about," she said shortly. She bent down
and gathered up the fallen books. I suggest you all go back outside and
enjoy the sunshine."

But they didn
It's tonight,
Snape's going through the trapdoor tonight. He's found
out everything he needs, and now he's got Dumbledore out of the way. He
sent that note, I bet the Ministry of Magic will get a real shock when
Dumbledore turns up.
But what can we --
Good afternoon,
You shouldn't be inside on a day like this,
We were --
You want to be more careful,
Hanging around

like this, people will think you're up to something. And Gryffindor
really can't afford to lose any more points, can it?
Be warned, Potter -- any more nighttime wanderings and I will
personally make sure you are expelled. Good day to you.
Right, here's what we've got to do,
One of us
has got to keep an eye on Snape -- wait outside the staff room and
follow him if he leaves it. Hermione, you'd better do that.
Why me?
It's obvious,
You can pretend to be waiting for Professor
Flitwick, you know.
'Oh Professor Flitwick,
I'm so worried, I think I got question fourteen b wrong....'
Oh, shut up,
And we'd better stay outside the third-floor corridor,
Come on.
t work. No sooner had they reached the
door separating Fluffy from the rest of the school than Professor
McGonagall turned up again and this time, she lost her temper.

"I suppose you think you
 she stormed. 
ve
come anywhere near here again, I
 Harry and Ron went back to
the common room, Harry had just said, 
s on Snape
 when the portrait of the Fat Lady swung open and Hermione came
in.


m sorry, Harry!" she wailed. "Snape came out and asked me what I was
doing, so I said I was waiting for Flitwick, and Snape went to get him,
and I
t know where Snape went."

"Well, that
t it?" Harry said.

The other two stared at him. He was pale and his eyes were glittering.

"I
m going to try and get to the Stone
first."

"You
 said Ron.


t!" said Hermione. "After what McGonagall and Snape have said?
You



 Harry shouted. 
t you understand? If Snape gets hold of
the Stone, Voldemort
t you heard what it was like
when he was trying to take over? There won
ll flatten it, or turn it into a school for the Dark
Arts! Losing points doesn
t you see? D
ll leave you and your families alone if Gryffindor wins the house
cup? If I get caught before I can get to the Stone, well, I
s
only dying a bit later than I would have, because I
m going through that trapdoor tonight and nothing
you two say is going to stop me! Voldemort killed my parents, remember?"

He glared at them.

"You
 said Hermione in a small voice.


ll use the invisibility cloak," said Harry. "It



 said Ron.





t think we



 said Hermione briskly. 
d get to
the Stone without us? I






 said Hermione grimly. 
re not
throwing me out after that."

After dinner the three of them sat nervously apart in the common room.
Nobody bothered them; none of the Gryffindors had anything to say to
Harry any more, after all. This was the first night he hadn
t talk much. Both of them were thinking about what they
were about to do.

Slowly, the room emptied as people drifted off to bed.

"Better get the cloak," Ron muttered, as Lee Jordan finally left,
stretching and yawning. Harry ran upstairs to their dark dormitory. He
putted out the cloak and then his eyes fell on the flute Hagrid had
given him for Christmas. He pocketed it to use on Fluffy -- he didn
We'd better put the cloak on here, and make sure it covers all three of
us -- if Filch spots one of our feet wandering along on its own --
What are you doing?
d been making another bid for freedom.

"Nothing, Neville, nothing," said Harry, hurriedly putting the cloak
behind his back.

Neville stared at their guilty faces.

"You
 he said.


 said Hermione. 
re not. Why don


Harry looked at the grandfather clock by the door. They couldn't afford
to waste any more time, Snape might even now be playing Fluffy to sleep.


t go out," said Neville, "you



t understand," said Harry, "this is important."

But Neville was clearly steeling himself to do something desperate.

I won
 he said, hurrying to stand in front of the
portrait hole. 
ll -- I



Ron exploded, 
t be an idiot
--"

"Don
 said Neville. I don't think you should be
breaking any more rules! And you were the one who told me to stand up to
people!
Yes, but not to us,
Neville, you don't know
what you're doing.
Go on then, try and hit me!
I'm
ready!
Do something,
Neville,
I'm really, really sorry about this.
Petrificus Totalus!
s arms snapped to his sides. His legs sprang together. His whole
body rigid, he swayed where he stood and then fell flat on his face,
stiff as a board.

Hermione ran to turn him over. Neville
t speak. Only his eyes were moving, looking at them in horror.

"What
 Harry whispered.


s the full Body-Bind," said Hermione miserably. "Oh, Neville, I



 said Harry.


ll understand later, Neville," said Ron as they stepped over him
and pulled on the invisibility cloak.

But leaving Neville lying motionless on the floor didn
s shadow looked
like Filch, every distant breath of wind sounded like Peeves swooping
down on them. At the foot of the first set of stairs, they spotted Mrs.
Norris skulking near the top.

"Oh, let
 Ron whispered in Harry's ear, but
Harry shook his head. As they climbed carefully around her, Mrs. Norris
turned her lamplike eyes on them, but didn't do anything.

They didn't meet anyone else until they reached the staircase up to the
third floor. Peeves was bobbing halfway up, loosening the carpet so that
people would trip.


s there?" he said suddenly as they climbed toward him. He narrowed
his wicked black eyes. "Know you
t see you. Are
you ghoulie or ghostie or wee student beastie?"

He rose up in the air and floated there, squinting at them.

"Should call Filch, I should, if something


Harry had a sudden idea.


 he said, in a hoarse whisper, 


Peeves almost fell out of the air in shock. He caught himself in time
and hovered about a foot off the stairs.


 he said greasily. 
t see you -- of course I didn
re
invisible -- forgive old Peevsie his little joke, sir."

"I have business here, Peeves," croaked Harry. "Stay away from this
place tonight."

"I will, sir, I most certainly will," said Peeves, rising up in the air
again. "Hope your business goes well, Baron, I


And he scooted off


 whispered Ron.

A few seconds later, they were there, outside the third-floor corridor
-- and the door was already ajar.


 Harry said quietly, 
s already got past
Fluffy."

Seeing the open door somehow seemed to impress upon all three of them
what was facing them. Underneath the cloak, Harry turned to the other
two.

"If you want to go back, I won
 he said. 
t need it now."

"Don
 said Ron.


re coming," said Hermione.

Harry pushed the door open.

As the door creaked, low, rumbling growls met their ears. All three of
the dog
t see them.

"What
 Hermione whispered.


 said Ron. 



 said Harry. 


He put Hagrid's flute to his lips and blew. It wasn't really a tune, but
from the first note the beast's eyes began to droop. Harry hardly drew
breath. Slowly, the dog's growls ceased -- it tottered on its paws and
fell to its knees, then it slumped to the ground, fast asleep.


 Ron warned Harry as they slipped out of the cloak and
crept toward the trapdoor. They could feel the dog's hot, smelly breath
as they approached the giant heads. 
ll be able to pull the
door open," said Ron, peering over the dog
Want to go first,
Hermione?
No, I don't!
All right.
s
legs. He bent and pulled the ring of the trapdoor, which swung up and
open.

"What can you see?" Hermione said anxiously.

"Nothing -- just black -- there
ll just
have to drop."

Harry, who was still playing the flute, waved at Ron to get his
attention and pointed at himself.

"You want to go first? Are you sure?" said Ron. "I don


Harry handed the flute over. In the few seconds' silence, the dog
growled and twitched, but the moment Hermione began to play, it fell
back into its deep sleep.

Harry climbed over it and looked down through the trapdoor. There was no
sign of the bottom.

He lowered himself through the hole until he was hanging on by his
fingertips. Then he looked up at Ron and said, 
t follow. Go straight to the owlery and send Hedwig to
Dumbledore, right?"

"Right," said Ron.

"See you in a minute, I hope...

And Harry let go. Cold, damp air rushed past him as he fell down, down,
down and -- FLUMP. With a funny, muffled sort of thump he landed on
something soft. He sat up and felt around, his eyes not used to the
gloom. It felt as though he was sitting on some sort of plant.

"It
 he called up to the light the size of a postage stamp,
which was the open trapdoor, 
s a soft landing, you can jump!"

Ron followed right away. He landed, sprawled next to Harry.

"What
 were his first words.


s here to break the fall.
Come on, Hermione!"

The distant music stopped. There was a loud bark from the dog, but
Hermione had already jumped. She landed on Harry
We must be miles under the school , she said.


s here, really," said Ron.

"Lucky!" shrieked Hermione. "Look at you both!"

She leapt up and struggled toward a damp wall. She had to struggle
because the moment she had landed, the plant had started to twist
snakelike tendrils around her ankles. As for Harry and Ron, their legs
had already been bound tightly in long creepers without their noticing.

Hermione had managed to free herself before the plant got a firm grip on
her. Now she watched in horror as the two boys fought to pull the plant
off them, but the more they strained against it, the tighter and faster
the plant wound around them.

"Stop moving!" Hermione ordered them. "I know what this is -- it
s Snare!"

"Oh, I
s called, that
 snarled
Ron, leaning back, trying to stop the plant from curling around his
neck. 
m trying to remember how to kill it!" said Hermione.

"Well, hurry up, I can
 Harry gasped, wrestling with it as it
curled around his chest.


s Snare, Devil
So light a fire!
Yes -- of course -- but there's no wood!
HAVE YOU GONE MAD?
ARE YOU A WITCH OR NOT?
Oh, right!
Lucky you pay attention in Herbology, Hermione,
Yeah,
and lucky Harry doesn't lose his head in a crisis --
'there's no wood,' honestly.
This way,

bank. If they met a dragon, a fully-grown dragon -- Norbert had been bad
enough...

"Can you hear something?" Ron whispered.

Harry listened. A soft rustling and clinking seemed to be coming from up
ahead.

"Do you think it



t know... sounds like wings to me."

"There


They reached the end of the passageway and saw before them a brilliantly
lit chamber, its ceiling arching high above them. It was full of small,
jewel-bright birds, fluttering and tumbling all around the room. On the
opposite side of the chamber was a heavy wooden door.


ll attack us if we cross the room?" said Ron.

"Probably," said Harry. "They don
s no other choice... I


He took a deep breath, covered his face with his arms, and sprinted
across the room. He expected to feel sharp beaks and claws tearing at
him any second, but nothing happened. He reached the door untouched. He
pulled the handle, but it was locked.

The other two followed him. They tugged and heaved at the door, but it
wouldn't budge, not even when Hermione tried her Alohomora charm.


 said Ron.


t be here just for decoration," said Hermione.

They watched the birds soaring overhead, glittering -- glittering?

"They
 Harry said suddenly. 
re keys! Winged keys --
look carefully. So that must mean..." he looked around the chamber while
the other two squinted up at the flock of keys. "... yes -- look!
Broomsticks! We





Ron examined the lock on the door.


re looking for a big, old-fashioned one -- probably silver, like the
handle."

They each seized a broomstick and kicked off into the air, soaring into
the midst of the cloud of keys. They grabbed and snatched, but the
bewitched keys darted and dived so quickly it was almost impossible to
catch one.

Not for nothing, though, was Harry the youngest Seeker in a century. He
had a knack for spotting things other people didn
s
weaving about through the whirl of rainbow feathers, he noticed a large
silver key that had a bent wing, as if it had already been caught and
stuffed roughly into the keyhole.

"That one!" he called to the others. "That big one -- there -- no, there
-- with bright blue wings -- the feathers are all crumpled on one side."

Ron went speeding in the direction that Harry was pointing, crashed into
the ceiling, and nearly fell off his broom.

"We
 Harry called, not taking his eyes off the
key with the damaged wing. 
ll try and catch it. Right,
NOW!"

Ron dived, Hermione rocketed upward, the key dodged them both, and Harry
streaked after it; it sped toward the wall, Harry leaned forward and
with a nasty, crunching noise, pinned it against the stone with one
hand. Ron and Hermione
Ready?
t see anything at all. But as
they stepped into it, light suddenly flooded the room to reveal an
astonishing sight.

They were standing on the edge of a huge chessboard, behind the black
chessmen, which were all taller than they were and carved from what
looked like black stone. Facing them, way across the chamber, were the
white pieces. Harry, Ron and Hermione shivered slightly -- the towering
white chessmen had no faces.

"Now what do we do?" Harry whispered.

"It
t it?" said Ron. "We


Behind the white pieces they could see another door.


 said Hermione nervously.


 said Ron, 
re going to have to be chessmen."

He walked up to a black knight and put his hand out to touch the
knight
Do we -- er -- have to join you to get across?
This needs thinking about 	he said. I suppose we've got to take the
place of three of the black pieces....
Now, don't be offended or anything, but neither of you are that good at
chess --
We're not offended,
Just tell us what to do.
Well, Harry, you take the place of that bishop, and Hermione, YOU 90
next to him instead of that castle.
What about you?
I'm going to be a knight,
White always plays first in chess,
Yes... look...
s knees were trembling. What if they lost?

"Harry -- move diagonally four squares to the right."

Their first real shock came when their other knight was taken. The white
queen smashed him to the floor and dragged him off the board, where he
lay quite still, facedown.

"Had to let that happen," said Ron, looking shaken. "Leaves you free to
take that bishop, Hermione, go on."

Every time one of their men was lost, the white pieces showed no mercy.
Soon there was a huddle of limp black players slumped along the wall.
Twice, Ron only just noticed in time that Harry and Hermione were in
danger. He himself darted around the board, taking almost as many white
pieces as they had lost black ones.

"We
 he muttered suddenly. 


The white queen turned her blank face toward him.


 said Ron softly, 
s the only way... I



That's chess!
You've got to make some sacrifices! I take
one step forward and she'll take me -- that leaves you free to checkmate
the king, Harry!
But --
Do you want to stop Snape or not?
Ron --
Look, if you don't hurry up, he'll already have the Stone!
Ready?
Here I go - now,
don't hang around once you've won.
d been knocked out.

Shaking, Harry moved three spaces to the left.

The white king took off his crown and threw it at Harry
What if he's --?
He'll be all right,
What do
you reckon's next?
We've had Sprout's, that was the Devil's Snare; Flitwick must've put
charms on the keys; McGonagall transfigured the chessmen to make them
alive; that leaves Quirrell's spell, and Snape's.
All right?
Go on.
I'm glad we didn't have to fight that one,
Come on, I can't
breathe.
Snape's,
What do we have to do?
t ordinary fire either; it was purple. At
the same instant, black flames shot up in the doorway leading onward.
They were trapped.

"Look!" Hermione seized a roll of paper lying next to the bottles. Harry
looked over her shoulder to read it:

Danger lies before you, while safety lies behind,

Two of us will help you, which ever you would find,

One among us seven will let you move ahead,

Another will transport the drinker back instead,

Two among our number hold only nettle wine,

Three of us are killers, waiting bidden in line.

Choose, unless you wish to stay here forevermore,

To help you in your choice, we give you these clues four:

First, however slyly the poison tries to hide

You will always find some on nettle wine
Brilliant,
This isn't magic -- it's logic -- a puzzle.
A lot of the greatest wizards haven't got an ounce of logic, they'd be
stuck in here forever.
But so will we, won't we?
Of course not,
Everything
we need is here on this paper. Seven bottles: three are poison; two are
wine; one will get us safely through the black fire, and one will get us
back through the purple.
But how do we know which to drink?
Give me a minute.
Got it,
The smallest bottle will get us through the black
fire -- toward the Stone.
There's only enough there for one of us,
That's hardly one
swallow.
Which one will get you back through the purple flames?
You drink that,
No, listen, get back and get Ron. Grab
brooms from the flying- key room, they'll get you out of the trapdoor
and past Fluffy -- go straight to the owlery and send Hedwig to
Dumbledore, we need him. I might be able to hold Snape off for a while,
but I'm no match for him, really.
But Harry -- what if You-Know-Who's with him?
Well -- I was lucky once, wasn't I?
I might get lucky again.
s lip trembled, and she suddenly dashed at Harry and threw her
arms around him.

"Hermione!"

"Harry -- you



m not as good as you," said Harry, very embarrassed, as she let go of
him.

"Me!" said Hermione. "Books! And cleverness! There are more important
things -- friendship and bravery and -- oh Harry -- be careful!"

"You drink first," said Harry. "You are sure which is which, aren



 said Hermione. She took a long drink from the round bottle
at the end, and shuddered.


s not poison?" said Harry anxiously.

"No -- but it











Hermione turned and walked straight through the purple fire.

Harry took a deep breath and picked up the smallest bottle. He turned to
face the black flames.


 he said, and he drained the little bottle in one gulp.

It was indeed as though ice was flooding his body. He put the bottle
down and walked forward; he braced himself, saw the black flames licking
his body, but couldn't feel them -- for a moment he could see nothing
but dark fire -- then he was on the other side, in the last chamber.

There was already someone there -- but it wasn't Snape. It wasn't even
Voldemort.


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

THE MAN WITH TWO FACES

It was Quirrell.


 gasped Harry.

Quirrell smiled. His face wasn't twitching at all.


 he said calmly. 
d be meeting you here,
Potter."

"But I thought -- Snape --"

"Severus?" Quirrell laughed, and it wasn
Yes, Severus does seem the type, doesn't
he? So useful to have him swooping around like an overgrown bat. Next to
him, who would suspect p-p-poor, st-stuttering P-Professor Quirrell?
t take it in. This couldn
t.

"But Snape tried to kill me!"

"No, no, no. I tried to kill you. Your friend Miss Granger accidentally
knocked me over as she rushed to set fire to Snape at that Quidditch
match. She broke my eye contact with you. Another few seconds and I
d have managed it before then if Snape
hadn






 said Quirrell coolly. 
t do it
again. Funny, really... he needn
t do anything
with Dumbledore watching. All the other teachers thought Snape was
trying to stop Gryffindor from winning, he did make himself unpopular...
and what a waste of time, when after all that, I


Quirrell snapped his fingers. Ropes sprang out of thin air and wrapped
themselves tightly around Harry.


re too nosy to live, Potter. Scurrying around the school on
Halloween like that, for all I knew you






t even manage to bite Snape
Now, wait quietly, Potter. I need to examine this interesting mirror.

It was only then that Harry realized what was standing behind Quirrell.
It was the Mirror of Erised.


 Quirrell murmured,
tapping his way around the frame. 
s in London... I


All Harry could think of doing was to keep Quirrell talking and stop him
from concentrating on the mirror.


 he blurted out.


 said Quirrell idly, walking around the mirror to look at the
back. 
d got.
He suspected me all along. Tried to frighten me - as though he could,
when I had Lord Voldemort on my side...."

Quirrell came back out from behind the mirror and stared hungrily into
it.

"I see the Stone... I


Harry struggled against the ropes binding him, but they didn't give. He
had to keep Quirrell from giving his whole attention to the mirror.





 said Quirrell casually, 
t you know? They loathed each other. But he never
wanted you dead."

"But I heard you a few days ago, sobbing -- I thought Snape was
threatening you...."

For the first time, a spasm of fear flitted across Quirrell
Sometimes,
I find it hard to follow my master's instructions
-- he is a great wizard and I am weak --
You mean he was there in the classroom with you?
He is with me wherever I go,
I met him when I
traveled around the world. A foolish young man I was then, full of
ridiculous ideas about good and evil. Lord Voldemort showed me how wrong
I was. There is no good and evil, there is only power, and those too
weak to seek it.... Since then, I have served him faithfully, although I
have let him down many times. He has had to be very hard on me.
He does not forgive mistakes easily. When I
failed to steal the stone from Gringotts, he was most displeased. He
punished me... decided he would have to keep a closer watch on me....
s voice trailed away. Harry was remembering his trip to Diagon
Alley -how could he have been so stupid? He
I don't understand... is the Stone inside the mirror? Should I break
it?
s mind was racing.

What I want more than anything else in the world at the moment, he
thought, is to find the Stone before Quirrell does. So if I look in the
mirror, I should see myseff finding it -- which means I
s hidden! But how can I look without Quirrell realizing what I
What does this mirror do? How does it work? Help me, Master!
s horror, a voice answered, and the voice seemed to come
from Quirrell himself

"Use the boy... Use the boy..."

Quirrell rounded on Harry.

"Yes -- Potter -- come here."

He clapped his hands once, and the ropes binding Harry fell off. Harry
got slowly to his feet.

"Come here," Quirrell repeated. "Look in the mirror and tell me what you
see."

Harry walked toward him.

I must lie, he thought desperately. I must look and lie about what I
see, that
s turban. He closed his eyes, stepped in
front of the mirror, and opened them again.

He saw his reflection, pale and scared-looking at first. But a moment
later, the reflection smiled at him. It put its hand into its pocket and
pulled out a blood-red stone. It winked and put the Stone back in its
pocket -- and as it did so, Harry felt something heavy drop into his
real pocket. Somehow -- incredibly -- he
Well?
What do you see?
I see myself shaking hands with Dumbledore,
I -- I've
won the house cup for Gryffindor.
Get out of the way,
s Stone against his leg. Dare he make a break for it?

But he hadn
t moving his lips.

"He lies... He lies..."

"Potter, come back here!" Quirrell shouted. "Tell me the truth! What did
you just see?"

The high voice spoke again.

"Let me speak to him... face-to-face..."

"Master, you are not strong enough!"

"I have strength enough... for this...."

Harry felt as if Devil
t
move a muscle. Petrified, he watched as Quirrell reached up and began to
unwrap his turban. What was going on? The turban fell away. Quirrell
t make a sound. Where there
should have been a back to Quirrell
Harry Potter...
t move.

"See what I have become?" the face said. "Mere shadow and vapor ... I
have form only when I can share another
t you give
me that Stone in your pocket?"

So he knew. The feeling suddenly surged back into Harry
Don't be a fool,
Better save your own life and join
me... or you'll meet the same end as your parents.... They died begging
me for mercy...
LIAR!
How touching...
I always value bravery... Yes, boy, your
parents were brave.... I killed your father first; and he put up a
courageous fight... but your mother needn't have died... she was trying
to protect you.... Now give me the Stone, unless you want her to have
died in vain.
NEVER!
SEIZE HIM!
s hand close on his wrist. At
once, a needle-sharp pain seared across Harry
Seize him! SEIZE HIM!
 landing on top of him, both hands
around Harry
s scar was almost blinding him with pain,
yet he could see Quirrell howling in agony.

"Master, I cannot hold him -- my hands -- my hands!"

And Quirrell, though pinning Harry to the ground with his knees, let go
of his neck and stared, bewildered, at his own palms -- Harry could see
they looked burned, raw, red, and shiny.

"Then kill him, fool, and be done!" screeched Voldemort.

Quirrell raised his hand to perform a deadly curse, but Harry, by
instinct, reached up and grabbed Quirrell
AAAARGH!
t touch his bare skin, not without suffering terrible
pain -- his only chance was to keep hold of Quirrell, keep him in enough
pain to stop him from doing a curse.

Harry jumped to his feet, caught Quirrell by the arm, and hung on as
tight as he could. Quirrell screamed and tried to throw Harry off -- the
pain in Harry
t see -- he could only
hear Quirrell
s yells of, "KILL HIM!
KILL HIM!" and other voices, maybe in Harry
Harry!
Harry!
s arm wrenched from his grasp, knew all was lost, and
fell into blackness, down ... down... down...

Something gold was glinting just above him. The Snitch! He tried to
catch it, but his arms were too heavy.

He blinked. It wasn
Good afternoon, Harry,
Sir! The Stone! It was Quirrell! He's got the Stone! Sir,
quick --
Calm yourself, dear boy, you are a little behind the times,
Quirrell does not have the Stone.
Then who does? Sir, I --
Harry, please relax, or Madam Pomfrey will have me thrown out.

Harry swallowed and looked around him. He realized he must be in the
hospital wing. He was lying in a bed with white linen sheets, and next
to him was a table piled high with what looked like half the candy shop.


 said Dumbledore, beaming. 









You got there? You got Hermione's owl?
We must have crossed in midair. No sooner had I reached London than it
became clear to me that the place I should be was the one I had just
left. I arrived just in time to pull Quirrell off you.
It was you.
I feared I might be too late.
You nearly were, I couldn't have kept him off the Stone much longer --
Not the Stone, boy, you -- the effort involved nearly killed you. For
one terrible moment there, I was afraid it had. As for the Stone, it has
been destroyed.
Destroyed?
But your friend -- Nicolas Flamel --
Oh, you know about Nicolas?
You did do the thing properly, didn't you? Well, Nicolas and I have had
a little chat, and agreed it's all for the best.
But that means he and his wife will die, won't they?
They have enough Elixir stored to set their affairs in order and then,
yes, they will die.
s face.

"To one as young as you, I
 Harry lay
there, lost for words. Dumbledore hummed a little and smiled at the
ceiling.


 said Harry. 
ve been thinking... sir -- even if the Stone






s going to try other ways of coming back,
isn
t gone, has he?"

"No, Harry, he has not. He is still out there somewhere, perhaps looking
for another body to share... not being truly alive, he cannot be killed.
He left Quirrell to die; he shows just as little mercy to his followers
as his enemies. Nevertheless, Harry, while you may only have delayed his
return to power, it will merely take someone else who is prepared to
fight what seems a losing battle next time -- and if he is delayed
again, and again, why, he may never return to power."

Harry nodded, but stopped quickly, because it made his head hurt. Then
he said, "Sir, there are some other things I



 Dumbledore sighed. 
ll forgive me. I shall not, of course, lie."

"Well... Voldemort said that he only killed my mother because she tried
to stop him from killing me. But why would he want to kill me in the
first place?"

Dumbledore sighed very deeply this time.

"Alas, the first thing you ask me, I cannot tell you. Not today. Not
now. You will know, one day... put it from your mind for now, Harry.
When you are older... I know you hate to hear this... when you are
ready, you will know."

And Harry knew it would be no good to argue.

"But why couldn



t realize that love as powerful as your
mother


Dumbledore now became very interested in a bird out on the windowsill,
which gave Harry time to dry his eyes on the sheet. When he had found
his voice again, Harry said, 



 Dumbledore's eyes twinkled. 



s something else..."

"Fire away."

"Quirrell said Snape --"

"Professor Snape, Harry." "Yes, him -- Quirrell said he hates me because
he hated my father. Is that true?"

"Well, they did rather detest each other. Not unlike yourself and Mr.
Malfoy. And then, your father did something Snape could never forgive."

"What?"

"He saved his life."

"What?"

"Yes..." said Dumbledore dreamily. "Funny, the way people
t it? Professor Snape couldn
s debt....
I do believe he worked so hard to protect you this year because he felt
that would make him and your father even. Then he could go back to
hating your father


Harry tried to understand this but it made his head pound, so he
stopped.


s one more thing..."

"Just the one?"

"How did I get the Stone out of the mirror?"

"Ah, now, I
s saying something. You see, only
one who wanted to find the Stone -- find it, but not use it -- would be
able to get it, otherwise they
s Every Flavor Beans! I was unfortunate enough in my youth to come
across a vomitflavored one, and since then I
ve rather lost
my liking for them -- but I think I
t
you?"

He smiled and popped the golden-brown bean into his mouth. Then he
choked and said, "Alas! Ear wax!"

Madam Pomfrey, the nurse, was a nice woman, but very strict.

"Just five minutes," Harry pleaded.

"Absolutely not."

"You let Professor Dumbledore in..."

"Well, of course, that was the headmaster, quite different. You need
rest."

"I am resting, look, lying down and everything. Oh, go on, Madam
Pomfrey..."

"Oh, very well," she said. "But five minutes only."

And she let Ron and Hermione in.

"Harry!"

Hermione looked ready to fling her arms around him again, but Harry was
glad she held herself in as his head was still very sore.

"Oh, Harry, we were sure you were going to -- Dumbledore was so worried
--"

"The whole school
 said Ron. 


It was one of those rare occasions when the true story is even more
strange and exciting than the wild rumors. Harry told them everything:
Quirrell; the mirror; the Stone; and Voldemort. Ron and Hermione were a
very good audience; they gasped in all the right places, and when Harry
told them what was under Quirrell's turban, Hermione screamed out loud.


s gone?" said Ron finally. "Flamel



s what I said, but Dumbledore thinks that -- what was it? -- 
I always said he was off his rocker,
So what happened to you two?
Well, I got back all right,
I brought Ron round --
that took a while -- and we were dashing up to the owlery to contact
Dumbledore when we met him in the entrance hall -- he already knew -- he
just said, 'Harry's gone after him, hasn't he?' and hurtled off to the
third floor.
D'you think he meant you to do it?
Sending you your
father's cloak and everything?
Well, 
if he did -- I mean to say that's terrible
-- you could have been killed.
No, it isn't,
He's a funny man, Dumbledore.
I think he sort of wanted to give me a chance. I think he knows more or
less everything that goes on here, you know. I reckon he had a pretty
good idea we were going to try, and instead of stopping us, he just
taught us enough to help. I don't think it was an accident he let me
find out how the mirror worked. It's almost like he thought I had the
right to face Voldemort if I could....
Yeah, Dumbledore's off his rocker, all right,
Listen, you've got to be up for the end-of-year feast tomorrow. The
points are all in and Slytherin won, of course -- you missed the last
Quidditch match, we were steamrollered by Ravenclaw without you -- but
the food'll be good.
You've had nearly fifteen minutes, now OUT
s sleep, Harry felt nearly back to normal.

I want to go to the feast," he told Madam Pomfrey as she straightened
his many candy boxes. I can, can



 she said
stiffily, as though in her opinion Professor Dumbledore didn't realize
how risky feasts could be. 



 said Harry. 


Hagrid sidled through the door as he spoke. As usual when he was
indoors, Hagrid looked too big to be allowed. He sat down next to Harry,
took one look at him, and burst into tears.


s -- all -- my -- ruddy -- fault!" he sobbed, his face in his hands.
I told the evil git how ter get past Fluffy! I told him! It was the only
thing he didn
 I told him! Yeh could
ll never drink again! I should be chucked out an



 said Harry, shocked to see Hagrid shaking with grief and
remorse, great tears leaking down into his beard. 
d have
found out somehow, this is Voldemort we
d have
found out even if you hadn



ve died!" sobbed Hagrid. "An
 say the name!"

"VOLDEMORT!" Harry bellowed, and Hagrid was so shocked, he stopped
crying. "I
m calling him by his name. Please cheer up,
Hagrid, we saved the Stone, it
t use it. Have a Chocolate
Frog, I


Hagrid wiped his nose on the back of his hand and said, 
ve got yeh a present."

"It
 said Harry anxiously, and at last
Hagrid gave a weak chuckle. 
Course, he shoulda sacked me instead -- anyway,
got yeh this..."

It seemed to be a handsome, leather-covered book. Harry opened it
curiously. It was full of wizard photographs. Smiling and waving at him
from every page were his mother and father.

"Sent owls off ter all yer parents
 fer
photos... knew yeh didn
yeh like it?"

Harry couldn
s fussing about, insisting on giving
him one last checkup, so the Great Hall was already full. It was decked
out in the Slytherin colors of green and silver to celebrate Slytherin
Another year gone!
And I must trouble you
with an old man's wheezing waffle before we sink our teeth into our
delicious feast. What a year it has been! Hopefully your heads are all a
little fuller than they were... you have the whole summer ahead to get
them nice and empty before next year starts....




A storm of cheering and stamping broke out from the Slytherin table.
Harry could see Draco Malfoy banging his goblet on the table. It was a
sickening sight.


 said Dumbledore. 


The room went very still. The Slytherins' smiles faded a little.


 said Dumbledore. 
First -- to Mr. Ronald Weasley...
...for the best-played game of chess Hogwarts has seen in many years, I
award Gryffindor house fifty points.
My brother, you know! My youngest brother! Got past
McGonagall's giant chess set!
Second -- to Miss Hermione Granger... for the use of cool logic in the
face of fire, I award Gryffindor house fifty points.
Third -- to Mr. Harry
Potter...


The din was deafening. Those who could add up while yelling themselves
hoarse knew that Gryffindor now had four hundred and seventy-two points
-- exactly the same as Slytherin. They had tied for the house cup -- if
only Dumbledore had given Harry just one more point.

Dumbledore raised his hand. The room gradually fell silent.


 said Dumbledore, smiling. 


Someone standing outside the Great Hall might well have thought some
sort of explosion had taken place, so loud was the noise that erupted
from the Gryffindor table. Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood up to yell and
cheer as Neville, white with shock, disappeared under a pile of people
hugging him. He had never won so much as a point for Gryffindor before.
Harry, still cheering, nudged Ron in the ribs and pointed at Malfoy, who
couldn't have looked more stunned and horrified if he'd just had the
Body-Bind Curse put on him.


we
need a little change of decoration.
s hand, with a horrible, forced smile. He caught Harry
s feelings toward him hadn
t worry Harry. It seemed as though life would be back
to normal next year, or as normal as it ever was at Hogwarts.

It was the best evening of Harry
t have everything in life.

And suddenly, their wardrobes were empty, their trunks were packed,
Neville
I always hope they'll forget to give us these,
s Every Flavor Beans as they sped past Muggle towns;
pulling off their wizard robes and putting on jackets and coats; pulling
into platform nine and three-quarters at King
t attract attention by all bursting out
of a solid wall at once and alarming the Muggles.

"You must come and stay this summer," said Ron, "both of you -- I



 said Harry, 
ll need something to look forward to." People
jostled them as they moved forward toward the gateway back to the Muggle
world. Some of them called:

"Bye, Harry!"

"See you, Potter!"

"Still famous," said Ron, grinning at him.

"Not where I
 said Harry.

He, Ron, and Hermione passed through the gateway together. 


It was Ginny Weasley, Ron's younger sister, but she wasn't pointing at
Ron.


 she squealed. 
Be quiet, Ginny, and it's rude to point.
Busy year?
Very,
Thanks for the fudge and the sweater, Mrs.
Weasley.
Oh, it was nothing, dear.
Ready, are you?
You must be Harry's family!
In a manner of speaking,
Hurry up, boy, we haven't
got all day.
See you over the summer, then.
Hope you have -- er -- a good holiday,
Oh, I will,
They don't know we're not allowed to use magic
at home. I'm going to have a lot of fun with Dudley this summer....
