Witch Burning in the Fourteenth
Century Was Completely Pointless discuss.
d
probably find himself locked in the cupboard under the stairs for the
rest of the summer.

The Dursley family of number four, Privet Drive, was the reason that
Harry never enjoyed his summer holidays. Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia, and
their son, Dudley, were Harry
s
dead parents, who had been a witch and wizard themselves, were never
mentioned under the Dursleys
s spellbooks, wand, cauldron, and broomstick at the start of
the summer break, and forbid him to talk to the neighbors.

This separation from his spellbooks had been a real problem for Harry,
because his teachers at Hogwarts had given him a lot of holiday work.
One of the essays, a particularly nasty one about shrinking potions, was
for Harry
s new company car (in very loud voices, so
that the rest of the street would notice it too), Harry had crept
downstairs, picked the lock on the cupboard under the stairs, grabbed
some of his books, and hidden them in his bedroom. As long as he didn
d received a telephone call from a fellow wizard one week
into the school vacation.

Ron Weasley, who was one of Harry
t, but had never used a telephone before. Most unluckily, it had
been Uncle Vernon who had answered the call.

"Vernon Dursley speaking."

Harry, who happened to be in the room at the time, froze as he heard
Ron
HELLO? HELLO? CAN YOU HEAR ME? I -- WANT -- TO -- TALK -- TO -- HARRY
-- POTTER!
WHO IS THIS?
WHO ARE
YOU?
RON -- WEASLEY!
I'M -- A -- FRIEND --
OF -- HARRY'S -- FROM -- SCHOOL --
s small eyes swiveled around to Harry, who was rooted to
the spot.

"THERE IS NO HARRY POTTER HERE!" he roared, now holding the receiver at
arm
I DON'T KNOW WHAT
SCHOOL YOURE TALKING ABOUT! NEVER CONTACT ME AGAIN! DON'T YOU COME NEAR
MY FAMILY!
HOW DARE YOU GIVE THIS NUMBER TO PEOPLE LIKE -- PEOPLE LIKE YOU!
d gotten Harry into trouble, because he
hadn
s other best friend from Hogwarts, Hermione
Granger, hadn
s year, had Muggle parents, knew perfectly well
how to use a telephone, and would probably have had enough sense not to
say that she went to Hogwarts.

So Harry had had no word from any of his wizarding friends for five long
weeks, and this summer was turning out to be almost as bad as the last
one. There was just one very small improvement -- after swearing that he
wouldn
d finish
this essay tomorrow night....

He replaced the top of the ink bottle; pulled an old pillowcase from
under his bed; put the flashlight, A History of Magic, his essay, quill,
and ink inside it; got out of bed; and hid the lot under a loose
floorboard under his bed. Then he stood up, stretched, and checked the
time on the luminous alarm clock on his bedside table.

It was one o
s stomach gave a funny jolt. He
had been thirteen years old, without realizing it, for a whole hour.

Yet another unusual thing about Harry was how little he looked forward
to his birthdays. He had never received a birthday card in his life. The
Dursleys had completely ignored his last two birthdays, and he had no
reason to suppose they would remember this one.

Harry walked across the dark room, past Hedwig
t worried about her: she
d be back soon -- she was the only living
creature in this house who didn
s parents,
because Lily and James Potter had not died in a car crash. They had been
murdered, murdered by the most feared Dark wizard for a hundred years,
Lord Voldemort. Harry had escaped from the same attack with nothing more
than a scar on his forehead, where Voldemort
s
direction. He stood quite still, watching it sink lower and lower. For a
split second he hesitated, his hand on the window latch, wondering
whether to slam it shut. But then the bizarre creature soared over one
of the street lamps of Privet Drive, and Harry, realizing what it was,
leapt aside.

Through the window soared three owls, two of them holding up the third,
which appeared to be unconscious. They landed with a soft flump on
Harry
s legs, took off the parcel, and then carried Errol
to Hedwig
t recognize the third owl, a handsome tawny one, but he knew
at once where it had come from, because in addition to a third package,
it was carrying a letter bearing the Hogwarts crest. When Harry relieved
this owl of its burden, it ruffled its feathers importantly, stretched
its wings, and took off through the window into the night.

Harry sat down on his bed and grabbed Errol
We will be spending the
gold on a summer holiday in Egypt, where our eldest son, Bill, works as
a curse breaker for Gringotts Wizarding Bank.
t show it) with flaming-red hair. Right in the middle of
the picture was Ron, tall and gangling, with his pet rat, Scabbers, on
his shoulder and his arm around his little sister, Ginny.

Harry couldn
s letter and unfolded it.

Dear Harry,

Happy birthday!

Look, I
t give you a hard time. I asked Dad, and he reckons I shouldn
s amazing here in Egypt. Bill
t believe the curses those old Egyptian wizards put on them. Mum
wouldn
d broken in and grown extra heads and
stuff.

I couldn
s gone on this trip, but they
s old wand had
snapped. It had happened when the car the two of them had been flying to
Hogwarts had crashed into a tree on the school grounds.

We
ll be going up to
London to get my wand and our new books. Any chance of meeting you
there?

Don
s Head Boy. He got the letter last week.

Harry glanced back at the photograph. Percy, who was in his seventh and
final year at Hogwarts, was looking particularly smug. He had pinned his
Head Boy badge to the fez perched jauntily on top of his neat hair, his
horn-rimmed glasses flashing in the Egyptian sun.

Harry now turned to his present and unwrapped it. Inside was what looked
like a miniature glass spinning top. There was another note from Ron
beneath it.

Harry -- this is a Pocket Sneakoscope. If there
s supposed to light up and spin. Bill says it
t reliable, because it kept lighting up at
dinner last night. But he didn
re all right.

I
t know how I was going
to send this to you -- what if they
ve been getting it
delivered; it
s going on in the wizarding
world), Did you see that picture of Ron and his family a week ago? I bet
he
m really jealous -- the ancient Egyptian wizards
were fascinating.

There
ve
rewritten my whole History of Magic essay to include some of the things
I
s not too long -- it
s going to be in London in the last week of the holidays.
Can you make it? Will your aunt and uncle let you come? I really hope
you can. If not, I
s Head Boy. I
s really pleased Ron
doesn
s letter aside and picked up her
present. It was very heavy. Knowing Hermione, he was sure it would be a
large book full of very difficult spells -- but it wasn
Wow, Hermione!
s High-Finish Handle Polish, a pair
of gleaming silver Tall-Twig Clippers, a tiny brass compass to clip on
your broom for long journeys, and a Handbook of Do-It-Yourself
Broomcare.

Apart from his friends, the thing that Harry missed most about Hogwarts
was Quidditch, the most popular sport in the magical world -- highly
dangerous, very exciting, and played on broomsticks. Harry happened to
be a very good Quidditch player; he had been the youngest person in a
century to be picked for one of the Hogwarts House teams. One of Harry
t have a normal person
Uh-oh,
Ouch!
s card.

Dear Harry,

Happy Birthday!

Think you might find this useful for next year. Won
s card up next to Ron
s,
grinning more broadly than ever. Now there was only the letter from
Hogwarts left.

Noticing that it was rather thicker than usual, Harry slit open the
envelope, pulled out the first page of parchment within, and read:

Dear Mr. Potter,

Please note that the new school year will begin on September the first.
The Hogwarts Express will leave ftom King
clock.

Third years are permitted to visit the village of Hogsmeade on certain
weekends. Please give the enclosed permission form to your parent or
guardian to sign.

A list of books for next year is enclosed. Yours sincerely,

Professor M. McGonagall

Deputy Headmistress

Harry pulled out the Hogsmeade permission form and looked at it, no
longer grinning. It would be wonderful to visit Hogsmeade on weekends;
he knew it was an entirely wizarding village, and he had never set foot
there. But how on earth was he going to persuade Uncle Vernon or Aunt
Petunia to sign the form?

He looked over at the alarm clock. It was now two o
d worry about the Hogsmeade form when he woke up, Harry
got back into bed and reached up to cross off another day on the chart
he
S BIG MISTAKE

Harry went down to breakfast the next morning to find the three Dursleys
already sitting around the kitchen table. They were watching a brand-new
television, a welcome-home-for-the-summer present for Dudley, who had
been complaining loudly about the long walk between the fridge and the
television in the living room. Dudley had spent most of the summer in
the kitchen, his piggy little eyes fixed on the screen and his five
chins wobbling as he ate continually.

Harry sat down between Dudley and Uncle Vernon, a large, beefy man with
very little neck and a lot of mustache. Far from wishing Harry a happy
birthday, none of the Dursleys made any sign that they had noticed Harry
enter the room, but Harry was far too used to this to care. He helped
himself to a piece of toast and then looked up at the reporter on the
television, who was halfway through a report on an escaped convict:

"... The public is warned that Black is armed and extremely dangerous. A
special hot line has been set up, and any sighting of Black should be
reported immediately."

"No need to tell us he
 snorted Uncle Vernon, staring over
the top of his newspaper at the prisoner. 


He shot a nasty look sideways at Harry, whose untidy hair had always
been a source of great annoyance to Uncle Vernon. Compared to the man on
the television, however, whose gaunt face was surrounded by a matted,
elbow-length tangle, Harry felt very well groomed indeed.

The reporter had reappeared.





 barked Uncle Vernon, staring furiously at the reporter. 
t tell us where that maniac


Aunt Petunia, who was bony and horse-faced, whipped around and peered
intently out of the kitchen window. Harry knew Aunt Petunia would simply
love to be the one to call the hot line number. She was the nosiest
woman in the world and spent most of her life spying on the boring,
law-abiding neighbors.


 said Uncle Vernon, pounding the table with his
large purple fist, 
s the only way to deal with these
people?"

"Very true," said Aunt Petunia, who was still squinting into next door
I'd
better be off in a minute, Petunia. Marge's train gets in at ten.
Aunt Marge?
Sh -- she's not coming here, is she?
s sister. Even though she was not a blood
relative of Harry
s sister), he
had been forced to call her "Aunt" all his life. Aunt Marge lived in the
country, in a house with a large garden, where she bred bulldogs. She
didn
t bear to leave
her precious dogs, but each of her visits stood out horribly vividly in
Harry
s fifth birthday party, Aunt Margo had whacked Harry around
the shins with her walking stick to stop him from beating Dudley at
musical statues. A few years later, she had turned up at Christmas with
a computerized robot for Dudley and a box of dog biscuits for Harry. On
her last visit, the year before Harry started at Hogwarts, Harry had
accidentally trodden on the tail of her favorite dog. Ripper had chased
Harry out into the garden and up a tree, and Aunt Marge had refused to
call him off until past midnight. The memory of this incident still
brought tears of laughter to Dudley
Marge'll be here for a week,
re
on the subject" -- he pointed a fat finger threateningly at Harry -- "we
need to get a few things straight before I go and collect her."

Dudley smirked and withdrew his gaze from the television. Watching Harry
being bullied by Uncle Vernon was Dudley
Firstly,
you'll keep a civil tongue in your
head when you're talking to Marge.
All right,
if she does when she's talking to me.


 said Uncle Vernon, acting as though he had not heard Harry's
reply, 
t know anything about your abnormality, I don
s here.

You behave yourself, got me?"

"I will if she does," said Harry through gritted teeth.

"And thirdly," said Uncle Vernon, his mean little eyes now slits in his
great purple face, "we
s Secure
Center for Incurably Criminal Boys."

"What?" Harry yelled.

"And you
ll be trouble, spat
Uncle Vernon.

Harry sat there, white-faced and furious, staring at Uncle Vernon,
hardly able to believe it. Aunt Marge coming for a weeklong visit -- it
was the worst birthday present the Dursleys had ever given him,
including that pair of Uncle Vernon
Well, Petunia,
I'll
be off to the station, then. Want to come along for the ride, Dudders?
No,
Duddy's got to make himself smart for his auntie,
s thick blond hair. "Mummy


Uncle Vernon clapped Dudley on his porky shoulder. 
 he said, and he left the kitchen.

Harry, who had been sitting in a kind of horrified trance, had a sudden
idea. Abandoning his toast, he got quickly to his feet and followed
Uncle Vernon to the front door.

Uncle Vernon was pulling on his car coat.


m not taking you," he snarled as he turned to see Harry watching him.

"Like I wanted to come," said Harry coldly. "I want to ask you
something."

Uncle Vernon eyed him suspiciously.

"Third years at Hog -- at my school are allowed to visit the village
sometimes," said Harry.

"So?" snapped Uncle Vernon, taking his car keys from a hook next to the
door.

"I need you to sign the permission form," said Harry in a rush.

"And why should I do that?" sneered Uncle Vernon.

"Well," said Harry, choosing his words carefully, "it



s Secure Center for Incurably Criminal Boys!" bellowed Uncle
Vernon, and Harry was pleased to hear a definite note of panic in Uncle
Vernon
Exactly,
s large,
purple face. "It
ll have to make it sound
convincing, won



ll get the stuffing knocked out of you, won
 roared Uncle
Vernon, advancing on Harry with his fist raised. But Harry stood his
ground.


t make Aunt Marge forget what I
could tell her," he said grimly.

Uncle Vernon stopped, his fist still raised, his face an ugly puce.

"But if you sign my permission form," Harry went on quickly, "I swear
I
m supposed to go to school, and I
m normal and everything."

Harry could tell that Uncle Vernon was thinking it over, even if his
teeth were bared and a vein was throbbing in his temple.

"Right," he snapped finally. "I shall monitor your behavior carefully
during Marge
ve toed the line and
kept to the story, I


He wheeled around, pulled open the front door, and slammed it so hard
that one of the little panes of glass at the top fell out.

Harry didn't return to the kitchen. He went back upstairs to his
bedroom. If he was going to act like a real Muggle, he'd better start
now. Slowly and sadly he gathered up all his presents and his birthday
cards and hid them under the loose floorboard with his homework. Then he
went to Hedwig's cage. Errol seemed to have recovered; he and Hedwig
were both asleep, heads under their wings. Harry sighed, then poked them
both awake.


 he said gloomily, 
re going to have to clear off for a
week. Go with Errol. Ron
ll write him a note,
explaining. And don
 -- Hedwig's large amber eyes
were reproachful -- 
s not my fault. It
ll be
allowed to visit Hogsmeade with Ron and Hermione."

Ten minutes later, Errol and Hedwig (who had a note to Ron bound to her
leg) soared out of the window and out of sight. Harry, now feeling
thoroughly miserable, put the empty cage away inside the wardrobe.

But Harry didn
Do something about your hair!
t see the point of trying to make his hair lie flat. Aunt
Marge loved criticizing him, so the untidier he looked, the happier she
would be.

All too soon, there was a crunch of gravel outside as Uncle Vernon
Get the door!
Where's my Dudders?
Where's my neffy-poo?
s stomach, knocking the wind out of him, seized
Dudley in a tight one-armed hug, and planted a large kiss on his cheek.

Harry knew perfectly well that Dudley only put up with Aunt Marge
Petunia!
s bony cheekbone.

Uncle Vernon now came in, smiling jovially as he shut the door.

"Tea, Marge?" he said. "And what will Ripper take?"

"Ripper can have some tea out of my saucer," said Aunt Marge as they all
proceeded into the kitchen, leaving Harry alone in the hall with the
suitcase. But Harry wasn
Who's looking after the other dogs, Marge?
Oh, I've got Colonel Fubster managing them,
He's
retired now, good for him to have something to do. But I couldn't leave
poor old Ripper. He pines if he's away from me.
s attention to Harry for the first time.

"So!" she barked. "Still here, are you?"

"Yes," said Harry.

"Don
 in that ungrateful tone," Aunt Marge growled. "It
t have done it
myself. You
d been dumped on
my doorstep."

Harry was bursting to say that he
Don't you smirk at me!
I can see you haven't
improved since I last saw you. I hoped school would knock some manners
into you.
Where is it that you send him, again, Vernon?
St. Brutus's,
It's a first-rate
institution for hopeless cases.
I see,
Do they use the cane at St. Brutus's, boy?
Er --
s back.

"Yes," said Harry. Then, feeling he might as well do the thing properly,
he added, "all the time."

"Excellent," said Aunt Marge. "I won
s needed in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred. Have
you been beaten often?"

"Oh, yeah," said Harry, "loads of times."

Aunt Marge narrowed her eyes.

"I still don
 she said. 
t hitting you hard
enough. Petunia, I
s case."

Perhaps Uncle Vernon was worried that Harry might forget their bargain;
in any case, he changed the subject abruptly.

"Heard the news this morning, Marge? What about that escaped prisoner,
eh?"

As Aunt Marge started to make herself at home, Harry caught himself
thinking almost longingly of life at number four without her. Uncle
Vernon and Aunt Petunia usually encouraged Harry to stay out of their
way, which Harry was only too happy to do. Aunt Marge, on the other
hand, wanted Harry under her eye at all times, so that she could boom
out suggestions for his improvement. She delighted in comparing Harry
with Dudley, and took huge pleasure in buying Dudley expensive presents
while glaring at Harry, as though daring him to ask why he hadn
You mustn't blame yourself for the way the boy's turned out, Vernon,
If there's something rotten on
the inside, there's nothing anyone can do about it.
t say anything. Don
It's one of the basic rules of breeding,
You see it all the
time with dogs. If there's something wrong with the bitch, there'll be
something wrong with the pup --
Marge!
Marge, are you all right?
Not to worry,
Must have squeezed it too hard. Did the same thing at Colonel Fubster's
the other day. No need to fuss, Petunia, I have a very firm grip...
d better skip dessert and escape from the
table as soon as he could.

Outside in the hall, he leaned against the wall, breathing deeply It had
been a long time since he
t afford to let it happen again. The Hogsmeade form wasn
d be in trouble
with the Ministry of Magic.

Harry was still an underage wizard, and he was forbidden by wizard law
to do magic outside school. His record wasn
d gotten an official warning that had stated quite
clearly that if the Ministry got wind of any more magic in Privet Drive,
Harry would face expulsion from Hogwarts.

He heard the Dursleys leaving the table and hurried upstairs out of the
way.

Harry got through the next three days by forcing himself to think about
his Handbook of Do-It-Yourself Broomcare whenever Aunt Marge started on
him. This worked quite well, though it seemed to give him a glazed look,
because Aunt Marge started voicing the opinion that he was mentally
subnormal.

At last, at long last, the final evening of Marge
s faults; during the lemon meringue pie, Uncle
Vernon bored them A with a long talk about Grunnings, his drill-making
company; then Aunt Petunia made coffee and Uncle Vernon brought out a
bottle of brandy.

"Can I tempt you, Marge?"

Aunt Marge had already had quite a lot of wine. Her huge face was very
red.

"Just a small one, then," she chuckled. "A bit more than that... and a
bit more... that


Dudley was eating his fourth slice of pie. Aunt Petunia was sipping
coffee with her little finger sticking out. Harry really wanted to
disappear into his bedroom, but he met Uncle Vernon's angry little eyes
and knew he would have to sit it out.


 said Aunt Marge, smacking her lips and putting the empty brandy
glass back down. 
s normally just a fry-up
for me of an evening, with twelve dogs to look after...." She burped
richly and patted her great tweed stomach. "Pardon me. But I do like to
see a healthy-sized boy," she went on, winking at Dudley. "You
ll have a spot more
brandy, Vernon...."

"Now, this one here --"

She jerked her head at Harry, who felt his stomach clench. The Handbook,
he thought quickly.

"This one


Harry was trying to remember page twelve of his book: A Charm to Cure
Reluctant Reversers. 
m saying nothing against your family,
Petunia" she patted Aunt Petunia
but your sister was a bad egg. They turn up in the best families. Then
she ran off with a wastrel and here's the result right in front of us.
t remember what came
next. Aunt Marge
s drills.

"This Potter, 5) said Aunt Marge loudly, seizing the brandy bottle and
splashing more into her glass and over the tablecloth, "you never told
me what he did?"

Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia were looking extremely tense. Dudley had
even looked up from his pie to gape at his parents.

"He -- didn
 said Uncle Vernon, with half a glance at Harry.




 said Aunt Marge, taking a huge swig of brandy and
wiping her chin on her sleeve. 



 said Harry suddenly. The table went very quiet. Harry was
shaking all over. He had never felt so angry in his life.


 yelled Uncle Vernon, who had gone very white. He emptied
the bottle into Aunt Marge's glass. 
 he snarled at Harry. 



 hiccuped Aunt Marge, holding up a hand, her tiny bloodshot
eyes fixed on Harry's. 


'They didn't die in a car crash!
They died in a car crash, you nasty little liar, and left you to be a
burden on their decent, hardworking relatives!
You are an insolent, ungrateful little --
t stop. Her great red face
started to expand, her tiny eyes bulged, and her mouth stretched too
tightly for speech -- next second, several buttons had just burst from
her tweed jacket and pinged off the walls -- she was inflating like a
monstrous balloon, her stomach bursting free of her tweed waistband,
each of her fingers blowing up like a salami --

"MARGE!" yelled Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia together as Aunt Marge
NOOOOOOO!
s feet and tried to pull her down
again, but was almost lifted from the floor himself. A second later,
Ripper leapt forward and sank his teeth into Uncle Vernon
s empty cage, and
dashed back downstairs to his trunk, just as Uncle Vernon burst out of
the dining room, his trouser leg in bloody tatters.

"COME BACK IN HERE!" he bellowed. "COME BACK AND PUT HER RIGHT!"

But a reckless rage had come over Harry. He kicked his trunk open,
pulled out his wand, and pointed it at Uncle Vernon.

"She deserved it," Harry said, breathing very fast. "She deserved what
she got. You keep away from me."

He fumbled behind him for the latch on the door.

"I
 Harry said. 
ve had enough."

And in the next moment, he was out in the dark, quiet street, heaving
his heavy trunk behind him, Hedwig
t swooping down on him where he sat.

Harry shivered and looked up and down Magnolia Crescent.

What, was going to happen to him? Would he be arrested, or would he
simply be outlawed from the wizarding world? He thought of Ron and
Hermione, and his heart sank even lower. Harry was sure that, criminal
or not, Ron and Hermione would want to help him now, but they were both
abroad, and with Hedwig gone, he had no means of contacting them.

He didn
d never be able to drag his trunk all the way to
London. Unless...

He looked down at his wand, which he was still clutching in his hand. If
he was already expelled (his heart was. now thumping painfully fast), a
bit more magic couldn
t sit on this wall forever, or he
d know whether it was just a stray cat or --
something else.

"Lumos," Harry muttered, and a light appeared at the end of his wand,
almost dazzling him. He held it high over his head, and the
pebble-dashed walls of number two suddenly sparkled; the garage door
gleamed, and between them Harry saw, quite distinctly, the hulking
outline of something very big, with wide, gleaming eyes.

Harry stepped backward. His legs hit his trunk and he tripped. His wand
flew out of his hand as he flung out an arm to break his fall, and he
landed, hard, in the gutter --

There was a deafening BANG, and Harry threw up his hands to shield his
eyes against a sudden blinding light --

With a yell, he rolled back onto the pavement, just in time. A second
later, a gigantic pair of wheels and headlights screeched to a halt
exactly where Harry had just been lying. They belonged, as Harry saw
when he raised his head, to a triple-decker, violently purple bus, which
had appeared out of thin air. Gold lettering over the windshield spelled
The Knight Bus.

For a Split second, Harry wondered if he had been knocked silly by his
fall. Then a conductor in a purple uniform leapt out of the bus and
began to speak loudly to the night.

"Welcome to the Knight Bus, emergency transport for the stranded witch
or wizard. just stick out your wand hand, step on board) and we can take
you anywhere you want to go. My name is Stan Shunpike, and I will be
your conductor this eve --"

The conductor stopped abruptly. He had just caught sight of "Harry, who
was still sitting on the ground. Harry snatched up his wand again and
scrambled to his feet. Close up, he saw that Stan Shunpike was only a
few years older than he was, eighteen or nineteen at most, with large,
protruding ears and quite a few pimples.

"What were you doin
 said Stan, dropping his professional
manner.


 said Harry.


Choo fall over for?" sniggered Stan.

"I didn
 said Harry, annoyed. One of the knees in
his jeans was torn, and the hand he had thrown out to break his fall was
bleeding. He suddenly remembered why he had fallen over and turned
around quickly to stare at the alleyway between the garage and fence.
The Knight Bus's headlamps were flooding it with light, and it was
empty.


Choo lookin
 said Stan.


 said Harry, pointing uncertainly into the
gap. 


He looked a-round at Stan, whose mouth was slightly open. With a feeling
of unease, Harry saw Stan's eyes move to the scar on Harry's forehead.


ead?" said Stan abruptly.

"Nothing," said Harry quickly, flattening his hair over his scar. If the
Ministry of Magic was looking for him, he didn
Woss your name?
Neville Longbottom,
So -- so this bus,
did you say it goes anywhere?
Yep,
anywhere you like, long's it's on land. Can't
do nuffink underwater. 'Ere,
and, dincha?"

"Yes," said Harry quickly. "Listen, how much would it be to get to
London?"

"Eleven Sickles," said Stan, "but for fifteen you get 
ot water bottle an


Harry rummaged once more in his trunk, extracted his money bag, and
shoved some gold into Stan's hand. He and Stan then lifted his trunk,
with Hedwig's cage balanced on top, up the steps of the bus.

There were no seats; instead, half a dozen brass bedsteads stood beside
the curtained windows. Candles were burning in brackets beside each bed,
illuminating the wood-paneled walls. A tiny wizard in a nightcap at the
rear of the bus muttered, 
m pickling some slugs" and
rolled over in his sleep.

"You 
 Stan whispered, shoving Harry's trunk under the bed
right behind the driver, who was sitting in an armchair in front of the
steering wheel. 


Ernie Prang, an elderly wizard wearing very thick glasses, nodded to
Harry, who nervously flattened his bangs again and sat down on his bed.


er away, Ern," said Stan, sitting down in the armchair next to
Ernie
s stunned face with great enjoyment.

"This is where we was before you flagged us down," he said. "Where are
we, Ern? Somewhere in Wales?"

"Ar," said Ernie.

"How come the Muggles don
 said Harry.


 said Stan contemptuously. 
 listen properly, do they? Don
."

"Best go wake up Madam Marsh, Stan," said Ern. "We


Stan passed Harry's bed and disappeared up a narrow wooden staircase.
Harry was still looking out of the window, feeling increasingly nervous.
Ernie didn't seem to have mastered the use of a steering wheel. The
Knight Bus kept mounting the pavement, but it didn't hit anything; lines
of lampposts, mailboxes, and trash cans jumped out of its way as it
approached and back into position once it had passed.

Stan came back downstairs, followed by a faintly green witch wrapped in
a traveling cloak.


Ere you go, Madam Marsh," said Stan happily as Ern stamped on the
brake and the beds slid a foot or so toward the front of the bus. Madam
Marsh clamped a handkerchief to her mouth and tottered down the steps.
Stan threw her bag out after her and rammed the doors shut; there was
another loud BANG, and they were thundering down a narrow country lane,
trees leaping out of the way.

Harry wouldn
t keep banging loudly and jumping a hundred miles at a
time. His stomach churned as he fell back to wondering what was going to
happen to him, and whether the Dursleys had managed to get Aunt Marge
off the ceiling yet.

Stan had unfurled a copy of the Daily Prophet and was now reading with
his tongue between his teeth. A large photograph of a sunken-faced man
with long, matted hair blinked slowly at Harry from the front page. He
looked strangely familiar.

"That man!" Harry said, forgetting his troubles for a moment. "He was on
the Muggle news!"

Stanley turned to the front page and chuckled.

"Sirius Black," he said, nodding. "
e was on the Muggle news,
Neville, where you been?"

He gave a superior sort of chuckle at the blank look on Harry
You oughta read the papers more, Neville.
We are doing all we can to recapture Black,
and we beg the magical community
to remain calm.
Well, really, I had to, don't you know,
Black is mad. He's a danger to anyone who crosses him, magic or Muggle.
I have the Prime Minister's assurance that he will not breathe a word of
Black's true identity to anyone. And let's face it-who'd believe him if
he did?
Scary-lookin' fing, inee?
He murdered thirteen people?
with one curse?
Yep,
in front of witnesses an' all. Broad daylight. Big
trouble it caused, dinnit, Ern?
Ar,
Black woz a big supporter of You-Know-'Oo,
What, Voldemort?
s pimples went white; Ern jerked the steering wheel so hard
that a whole farmhouse had to jump aside to avoid the bus.

"You outta your tree?" yelped Stan. "
is name for?"

"Sorry," said Harry hastily. "Sorry, I -- I forgot --"

"Forgot!" said Stan weakly. "Blimey, my 
s goin



 Harry prompted
apologetically.


 said Stan, still rubbing his chest. 
s right. Very
close to You-Know-
Arry Potter got
the better of You-Know-


Harry nervously flattened his bangs down again.


Oo
t they, Ern?
Most of 
Oo gone, and they came
quiet. But not Sirius Black. I 
e
Oo 
Anyway, they cornered Black in the middle of a street full of Muggles
an' Black took out 'is wand and 'e blasted 'alf the street apart, an' a
wizard got it, an' so did a dozen Muggles what got in the way. 'Orrible,
eh? An' you know what Black did then?
What?
Laughed,
Jus' stood there an' laughed. An' when
reinforcements from the Ministry of Magic got there, I 'e went wiv em
quiet as anyfink, still laughing 'is 'ead off. 'Cos 'e's mad, inee, Ern?
Inee mad?
If he weren't when he went to Azkaban, he will be now,
I'd blow meself up before I set foot in that place. Serves
him right, mind you ... after what he did....
They 'ad a job coverin' it up, din' they, Ern?
'Ole street
blown up an' all them Muggles dead. What was it they said ad 'appened,
Ern?
Gas explosion,
An' now 'e's out,
s gaunt face again. "Never been a breakout from Azkaban before,

ow 
, eh? Mind, I don
is chances against them Azkaban guards, eh, Ern?"

Ernie suddenly shivered.

"Talk about summat else, Stan, there


Stan put the paper away reluctantly, and Harry leaned against the window
of the Knight Bus, feeling worse than ever. He couldn't help imagining
what Stan might be telling his passengers in a few nights' time.


Ear about that 
is aunt! We 
im 
n
E was tryin


He, Harry, had broken wizard law just like Sirius Black. Was inflating
Aunt Marge bad enough to land him in Azkaban? Harry didn't know anything
about the wizard prison, though everyone he'd ever heard speak of it did
so in the same fearful tone. Hagrid, the Hogwarts gamekeeper, had spent
two months there only last year. Harry wouldn't soon forget the look of
terror on Hagrid's face when he had been told where he was going, and
Hagrid was one of the bravest people Harry knew.

The Knight Bus rolled through the darkness, scattering bushes and
wastebaskets, telephone booths and trees, and Harry lay, restless and
miserable, on his feather bed. After a while, Stan remembered that Harry
had paid for hot chocolate, but poured it all over Harry's pillow when
the bus moved abruptly from Anglesea to Aberdeen. One by one, wizards
and witches in dressing gowns and slippers descended from the upper
floors to leave the bus. They all looked very pleased to go.

Finally, Harry was the only passenger left.


 said Stan, clapping his hands, where abouts in
London?
Diagon Alley,
Righto,
'Old tight, then.
s way.
The sky was getting a little lighter. He would lie low for a couple of
hours, go to Gringotts the. moment it opened, then set off -- where, he
didn
Thanks,
s
cage onto the pavement.

"Well," said Harry. "


But Stan wasn't paying attention. Still standing in the doorway to the
bus) he was goggling at the shadowy entrance to the Leaky Cauldron.

 said a voice.

Before Harry could turn, he felt a hand on his shoulder. At the same
time, Stan shouted, 
ere! Come 


Harry looked up at the owner of the hand on his shoulder and felt a
bucketful of ice cascade into his stomach -- he had walked right into
Cornelius Fudge, the Minister of Magic himself.

Stan leapt onto the pavement beside them.


 he said excitedly.

Fudge, a portly little man in a long, pinstriped cloak, looked cold and
exhausted.


 he repeated, frowning. 



 Stan shouted gleefully. 
oo Neville is,
Ern! 
s 
is scar!"

"Yes," said Fudge testily, "well, I


Fudge increased the pressure on Harry's shoulder, and Harry found
himself being steered inside the pub. A stooping figure bearing a
lantern appeared through the door behind the bar. It was Tom, the
wizened, toothless landlord.


ve got him, Minister!" said Tom. "Will you be wanting anything?
Beer? Brandy?"

"Perhaps a pot of tea," said Fudge, who still hadn
s trunk and Hedwig
'Ow come you di'n't tell us 'oo you are, eh, Neville?
s owlish face peered interestedly over
Stan
And a private parlor, please, Tom,
 Harry said miserably to Stan and Ern as Tom beckoned Fudge toward
the passage that led from the bar.


Bye, Neville!" called Stan.

Fudge marched Harry along the narrow passage after Tom
Sit down, Harry,
I am Cornelius Fudge, Harry. The Minister of Magic.
s Invisibility Cloak at the time,
Fudge wasn
Well, Harry,
you've had us all in a
right flap, I don't mind telling you. Running away from your aunt and
uncle's house like that! I'd started to think... but you're safe, and
that's what matters.
Eat, Harry, you look dead on your feet. Now then... You will be pleased
to hear that we have dealt with the unfortunate blowing-up of Miss
Marjorie Dursley. Two members of the Accidental Magic Reversal
Department were dispatched to Privet Drive a few hours ago. Miss Dursley
has been punctured and her memory has been modified. She has no
recollection of the incident at all. So that's that, and no harm done.
t believe his ears,
opened his mouth to speak, couldn
Ah, you're worrying about the reaction of your aunt and uncle?
Well, I won't deny that they are extremely angry, Harry, but
they are prepared to take you back next summer as long as you stay at
Hogwarts for the Christmas and Easter holidays.
I always stay at Hogwarts for the Christmas and Easter holidays,
and I don't ever want to go back to Privet Drive.
Now, now, I'm sure you'll feel differently once you've calmed down,
They are your family, after all, and I'm
sure you are fond of each other -- er -- very deep down.
t occur to Harry to put Fudge right. He was still waiting to
hear what was going to happen to him now.

"So all that remains," said Fudge, now buttering himself a second
crumpet, "is to decide where you
Hang on,
What about my punishment?
Punishment?
I broke the law!
The Decree for the Restriction of
Underage Wizardry!
Oh, my dear boy, we're not going to punish you for a little thing like
that!
It was an accident!
We don't send people to Azkaban just for blowing up their aunts!
t tally at all with Harry
Last year, I got an official warning just because a house-elf smashed a
pudding in my uncle's house!
The Ministry of
Magic said I'd be expelled from Hogwarts if there was any more magic
there!
s eyes were deceiving him, Fudge was suddenly looking
awkward.

"Circumstances change, Harry... We have to take into account... in the
present climate... Surely you don



t," said Harry.

"Well then, what
 laughed Fudge. 
s got a room for you."

Fudge strode out of the parlor and Harry stared after him. There was
something extremely odd going on. Why had Fudge been waiting for him at
the Leaky Cauldron, if not to punish him for what he
t usual for the Minister of
Magic himself to get involved in matters of underage magic?

Fudge came back, accompanied by Tom the innkeeper.

"Room eleven
 said Fudge. 
ll be very
comfortable. just one thing, and I
ll understand... I don
re to be back here before dark each night. Sure you



 said Harry slowly, 



t want to lose you again, do we?" said Fudge with a hearty laugh.
"No, no... best we know where you are.... I mean..."

Fudge cleared his throat loudly and picked up his pinstriped cloak.

"Well, I
Have you had any luck with Black yet?
s finger slipped on the silver fastenings of his cloak.

"What
ve heard -- well, no, not yet, but it
ve ever seen them."

Fudge shuddered slightly.

"So, I


He held out his hand and Harry, shaking it, had a sudden idea.





 said Fudge with a smile.


t sign the permission form. D


Fudge was looking uncomfortable.


 he said. 
m very sorry, Harry, but as I



 said Harry eagerly. 
No, I'm sorry, Harry, but rules are rules,
Perhaps You
s best if you don
ll be off Enjoy your stay,
Harry."

And with a last smile and shake of Harry
If you'll follow me, Mr. Potter,
I've already taken your
things up...
Hedwig!
s arm.

"Very smart owl you
Arrived about five
minutes after you did. If there's anything you need, Mr. Potter, don't
hesitate to ask.
d left Privet Drive only a few hours ago,
that he wasn
It's been a very weird night, Hedwig,
s shopping; venerable-looking wizards arguing over the latest
article in Transfiguration Today; wild-looking warlocks; raucous dwarfs;
and once, what looked suspiciously like a hag, who ordered a plate of
raw liver from behind a thick woollen balaclava.

After breakfast Harry would go out into the backyard, take out his wand,
tap the third brick from the left above the trash bit,, and stand back
as the archway into Diagon Alley opened in the wall.

Harry spent the long sunny days exploring the shops and eating under the
brightly colored umbrellas outside cafes, where his fellow diners were
showing one another their purchases ( " it , s a lunascope, old boy --
no more messing around with moon charts, see?") or else discussing the
case of Sirius Black ("personalty, I won
s back in Azkaban"). Harry didn
s Ice Cream Parlor, finishing all his
essays with occasional help from Florean Fortescue himself, who, apart
from knowing a great deal about medieval witch burnings, gave Harry free
sundaes every half an hour.

Once Harry had refilled his money bag with gold Galleons, silver
Sickles, and bronze Knuts from his vault at Gringotts, he had to
exercise a lot of self-control not to spend the whole lot at once. He
had to keep reminding himself that he had five years to go at Hogwarts,
and how it would feel to ask the Dursleys for money for spellbooks, to
stop himself from buying a handsome set of solid gold Gobstones (a
wizarding game rather like marbles, in which the stones squirt a
nasty-smelling liquid into the other player
s
resolution most appeared in his favorite shop, Quality Quidditch
Supplies, a week after he
Just come out -- prototype --
It's the fastest broom in the world, isn't it, Dad?
s arm.

"Irish International Side
 the proprietor of the shop told the crowd. 
re
favorites for the World Cup!"

A large witch in front of Harry moved, and he was able to read the sign
next to the broom:

** THE FIREBOLT **

THIS STATE-OF-THE-ART PACING BROOM SPORTS A STREAM-LINED, SUPERFINE
HANDLE OF ASH, TREATED WITH A DIAMOND-HARD POLISH AND HAND- NUMBERED
WITH ITS OWN REGISTRATION NUMBER. EACH INDIVIDUALLY SELECTED BIRCH TWIG
IN THE BROOMTAIL HAS BEEN HONED TO AERODYNAMIC PERFECTION, GIVING THE
FIREBOLT UNSURPASSABLE BALANCE AND PINPOINT PRECISION. THE FIREBOLT HAS
AN ACCELERATION OF 150 MILES AN HOUR IN TEN SECONDS AND INCORPORATES AN
UNBREAKABLE BRAKING CHARM. PRICE ON REQUEST.

Price on request... Harry didn
t ask for
the price, but he returned, almost every day after that, just to look at
the Firebolt.

There were, however, things that Harry needed to buy. He went to the
Apothecary to replenish his store of potions ingredients, and as his
school robes were now several inches too short in the arm and leg, he
visited Madam Malkin
Hogwarts?
Come to get your new books?
Yes,
I need --
Get out of the way,
 cage.

"Hang on," said Harry quickly, "I



 A look of enormous relief spread over the manager's face.

ve been bitten five times already this
morning --"

A loud ripping noise rent the air; two of the Monster Books had seized a
third and were pulling it apart.

"Stop it! Stop it!" cried the manager, poking the walking stick through
the bars and knocking the books apart. "I
s been bedlam! I thought we



 said Harry, looking down his booklist, 



 said the manager, stripping off his
gloves and leading Harry into the back of the shop, where there was a
corner devoted to fortune-telling. A small table was stacked with
volumes such as Predicting the Unpredictable: Insulate Yourself Against
Shocks and Broken Balls: When Fortunes Turn Foul.


 said the manager, who had climbed a set of steps to
take down a thick, black- bound book. "Unfogging the Future. Very good
guide to all your basic fortune-telling methods - palmistry, crystal
balls, bird entrails.

But Harry wasn
Oh, I wouldn't read that if I were you,
You'll start seeing death
omens everywhere. It's enough to frighten anyone to death. 
s hands.

"Anything else?" he said.

"Yes," said Harry, tearing his eyes away from the dog
Er -- I need Intermediate Transfiguration and
The Standard Book of Spells, Grade Three.
It can't have been a death omen,
I
was panicking when I saw that thing in Magnolia Crescent.... It was
probably just a stray dog....
You're fighting a losing battle there, dear,
t stop to chat; Neville appeared to have mislaid
his booklist and was being told off by his very formidable-looking
grandmother. Harry hoped she never found out that he
d have lunch, when someone yelled his name and he
turned.

"Harry! HARRY!"

They were there, both of them, sitting outside Florean Fortescue
Finally!
We went to the
Leaky Cauldron, but they said you'd left, and we went to Flourish and
Blotts, and Madam Malkin's, and --
I got all my school stuff last week,
And how come
You knew I'm staying at the Leaky Cauldron?
Dad,
Did you really blow up your aunt, Harry?
I didn't mean to,
I just
-- lost control.
It's not funny, Ron,
Honestly, I'm amazed
Harry wasn't expelled.
So am I,
Forget expelled, I thought I was going to be
arrested.
Your dad doesn't know why Fudge let me
off, does he?
Probably 'cause it's you, isn't it?
Famous Harry Potter and all that. I'd hate to see what the Ministry'd
do to me if I blew up an aunt. Mind you, they'd have to dig me up first,
because Mum would've killed me. Anyway, you can ask Dad yourself this
evening. We're staying at the Leaky Cauldron tonight too! So you can
come to King's Cross with us tomorrow! Hermione's there as well!
Mum and Dad dropped me off this morning with
all my Hogwarts things.
Excellent!
So, have you got all your new books
and stuff?
Look at this,
Brand-new wand. Fourteen inches, willow, containing one
unicorn tail-hair. And we've got all our books --
What about those Monster Books, eh? The assistant
nearly cried when we said we wanted two.
What's all that, Hermione?
m taking more new subjects than you, aren
 said Hermione.
"Those are my books for Arithmancy, Care of Magical Creatures,
Divination, the Study of Ancient Runes, Muggle Studies --"

"What are you doing Muggle Studies for?" said Ron, rolling his eyes at
Harry. "You



ll be fascinating to study them from the wizarding point of
view," said Hermione earnestly.

"Are you planning to eat or sleep at all this year, Hermione?" asked
Harry, while Ron sniggered. Hermione ignored them.

"I
 she said, checking her purse. 
s my
birthday in September, and Mum and Dad gave me some money to get myself
an early birthday present."

"How about a nice book? said Ron innocently.

"No, I don
 said Hermione composedly. 
s got Hedwig and you



t," said Ron. "Errol
ve got is Scabbers."
He pulled his pet rat out of his pocket. "And I want to get him checked
over," he added, placing Scabbers on the table in front of them. "I
don


Scabbers was looking thinner than usual, and there was a definite droop
to his whiskers.


s a magical creature shop just over there," said Harry, who knew
Diagon Alley very well by now. "You could see if they


So they paid for their ice cream and crossed the street to the Magical
Menagerie.

There wasn't much room inside. Every inch of wall was hidden by cages.
It was smelly and very noisy because the occupants Of these cages were
all squeaking, squawking, jabbering, or hissing. The witch behind the
counter was already advising a wizard on the care of double-ended newts,
so Harry, Ron, and Hermione waited, examining the cages.

A pair of enormous purple toads sat gulping wetly and feasting on dead
blowflies. A gigantic tortoise with a jewel-encrusted shell was
glittering near the window. Poisonous orange snails were oozing slowly
up the side of their glass tank, and a fat white rabbit kept changing
into a silk top hat and back again with a loud popping noise. Then there
were cats of every color, a noisy cage of ravens, a basket of funny
custard-colored furballs that were humming loudly, and on the counter, a
vast cage of sleek black rats that were playing some sort of skipping
game using their long, bald tails.

The double-ended newt wizard left, and Ron approached the counter.


s my rat," he told the witch. "He been a bit off-color ever since I
brought him back from Egypt."

"Bang him on the counter," said the witch, pulling a pair of heavy black
spectacles out of her pocket.

Ron lifted Scabbers out of his inside pocket and placed him next to the
cage of his fellow rats, who stopped their skipping tricks and scuffled
to the wire for a better took.

Like nearly everything Ron owned, Scabbers the rat was secondhand (he
had once belonged to Ron
Hm,
How old is this rat?
Dunno,
Quite old. He used to belong to my brother.
What powers does he have?
Er --
s tattered
left ear to his front paw, which had a toe missing, and tutted loudly.

"He
 she said.


 said Ron defensively.


t be expected to live
longer than three years or so," said the witch. "Now, if you were
looking for something a bit more hard-wearing, you might like one of
these --"

She indicated the black rats, who promptly started skipping again. Ron
muttered, "Show-offs."

"Well, if you Don

said the witch, reaching under the counter and bringing out a small red
bottle.


 said Ron. 


Ron buckled as something huge and orange came soaring from the top of
the highest cage, landed on his head, and then propelled itself,
spitting madly, at Scabbers.


 cried the witch, but Scabbers, shot from between
her hands like a bar of soap, landed splay-legged on the floor, and then
scampered for the door.


 Ron shouted, racing out of the shop after him; Harry
followed.

It took them nearly ten minutes to catch Scabbers, who had taken refuge
under a wastepaper bin outside Quality Quidditch Supplies. Ron stuffed
the trembling rat back into his pocket and straightened up, massaging
his head.





 said Harry.


s Hermione?"

"Probably getting her owl

They made their way back up the crowded street to the Magical Menagerie.
As they reached it, Hermione came out, but she wasn
You bought that monster?
He's gorgeous, isn't he?
s ginger fur was
thick and fluffy, but it was definitely a bit bowlegged and its face
looked grumpy and oddly squashed, as though it had run headlong into a
brick wall. Now that Scabbers was out of sight, however, the cat was
purring contentedly in Hermione
Herinione, that thing nearly scalped me!
He didn't mean to, did you, Crookshanks?
And what about Scabbers?
He needs rest and relaxation! How's he going to get it with
that thing around?
That reminds me, you forgot your rat tonic,
s hand. "And stop worrying, Crookshanks
will be sleeping in my dormitory and Scabbers in yours, what
d been in there for ages;
no one wanted him."

"Wonder why," said Ron sarcastically as they set off toward the Leaky
Cauldron.

They found Mr. Weasley sitting in the bar, reading the Daily prophet.

"Harry!" he said, smiling as he looked up. "How are you?"

"Fine, thanks," said Harry as he, Ron, and Hermione joined Mr. Weasley
with A their shopping.

Mr. Weasley put down his paper, and Harry saw the now familiar picture
of Sirius Black staring up at him.

"They still haven
 he asked.


 said Mr. Weasley, looking extremely grave. 
ve pulled us all
off our regular jobs at the Ministry to try and find him, but no luck so
far."

"Would we get a reward if we caught him?" asked Ron. "It



t be ridiculous, Ron," said Mr. Weasley, who on closer inspection
looked very strained. "Black
s the Azkaban guards who


At that moment Mrs. Weasley entered the bar, laden with shopping bags
and followed by the twins, Fred and George, who were about to start
their fifth year at Hogwarts; the newly elected Head Boy, Percy; and the
Weasleys' youngest child and only girl, Ginny.

Ginny, who had always been very taken with Harry, seemed even more
heartily embarrassed than usual when she saw him, perhaps because he had
saved her life during their previous year at Hogwarts. She went very red
and muttered 
 without looking at him. Percy, however, held out
his hand solemnly as though he and Harry had never met and said, 
Hello, Percy,
re well?" said Percy pompously, shaking hands. It was rather
like being introduced to the mayor.

"Very well, thanks --"

"Harry!" said Fred, elbowing Percy out of the way and bowing deeply.
"Simply splendid to see you, old boy --"

"Marvelous," said George, pushing Fred aside and seizing Harry
Absolutely spiffing.
That's enough, now,
Mum!
d only just spotted her and seizing her
hand too. "How really corking to see you --"

"I said, that
 said Mrs. Weasley, depositing her shopping in
an empty chair. 
ve heard our exciting
news?" She pointed to the brand-new silver badge on Percy
Second Head Boy in the family!
And last,
t doubt that," said Mrs. Weasley, frowning suddenly. "I notice
they haven



 said George, looking revolted at
the very idea. 
d take all the fun out of life."

Ginny giggled.

"Yo u want to set a better example for your sister!" snapped Mrs.
Weasley.

"Ginny
 said Percy
loftily. 
m going up to change for dinner..."

He disappeared and George heaved a sigh.

"We tried to shut him in a pyramid," he told Harry. "But Mum spotted
us."

Dinner that night was a very enjoyable affair. Tom the innkeeper put
three tables together in the parlor, and the seven Weasleys, Harry, and
Hermione ate their way through five delicious courses.

"How
s Cross tomorrow, Dad?" asked Fred as they
dug into a sumptuous chocolate pudding.

"The Ministry
 said Mr. Weasley.

Everyone looked up at him.


 said Percy curiously.


s because of you, Perce," said George seriously. "And there



 said Fred.

Everyone except Percy and Mrs. Weasley snorted into their pudding.


 Percy asked again, in a
dignified voice.


t got one anymore," said Mr. Weasley,

"-- and as I work there, they


His voice was casual, but Harry couldn't help noticing that Mr.
Weasley's ears had gone red, just like Ron's did when he was under
Pressure.


 said Mrs. Weasley briskly. 
ve all got between you? A nice sight you
t you?"

"Ron hasn
 said Percy, in a
long-suffering voice. 
s dumped them on my bed."

"You
t have much time
in the morning," Mrs. Weasley called down the table. Ron scowled at
Percy.

After dinner everyone felt very full and sleepy. One by one they made
their way upstairs to their rooms to check their things for the next
day. Ron and Percy were next door to Harry. He had just closed and
locked his own trunk when he heard angry voices through the wall, and
went to see what was going on.

The door of number twelve was ajar and Percy was shouting.

"It was here, on the bedside table, I took it off for polishing

"I haven
 Ron roared back.


s up?" said Harry.

"My Head Boy badge is gone," said Percy, rounding on Harry.

"So
s rat tonic," said Ron, throwing things out of his trunk
to look. "I think I might



re not going anywhere till you
 yelled Percy.


ll get Scabbers
m packed," Harry said to Ron, and he went
downstairs.

Harry was halfway along the passage to the bar, which was now very dark,
when he heard another pair of angry voices coming from the parlor. A
second later, he recognized them as Mr. and Mrs.

Weasleys
d heard them
arguing, when the sound of his own name made him stop, then move closer
to the parlor door.

"--makes no sense not to tell him," Mr. Weasley was saying heatedly.
"Harry
ve tried to tell Fudge, but he insists
on treating Harry like a child. He



 said Mrs. Weasley shrilly. 
s sake, he



t want to make him miserable, I want to put him on his guard!"
retorted Mr. Weasley. "You know what Harry and Ron are like, wandering
off by themselves -- they
t do that this year! When I think what could have happened
to him that night he ran away from home! If the Knight Bus hadn
m prepared to bet he would have been dead before the Ministry
found him."

"But he
s fine, so what
Molly, they say Sirius Black's mad, and maybe he is, but he was clever
enough to escape from Azkaban, and that's supposed to be impossible.
It's been three weeks, and no one's seen hide nor hair of him, and I
don't care what Fudge keeps telling the Daily Prophet, we're no nearer
catching Black than inventing self-spelling wands. The only thing we
know for sure is what Black's after








s really sure that Black
Molly, how many times do I have to tell you? They didn't report it in
the press because Fudge wanted it kept quiet, but Fudge went out to
Azkaban the night Black escaped. The guards told Fudge that Blacks been
talking in his sleep for a while now. Always the same words: 'He's at
Hogwarts... he's at Hogwarts.' Black is deranged, Molly, and he wants
Harry dead. If you ask me, he thinks murdering Harry will bring
You-Know-Who back to pow er. Black lost everything the night Harry
stopped You- Know-Who, and he's had twelve years alone in Azkaban to
brood on that....
Well, Arthur, you must do what you think is right. But you're
forgetting Albus Dumbledore. I don't think anything could hurt Harry at
Hogwarts while Dumbledore's headmaster. I suppose he knows about all
this?
Of course he knows. We had to ask him if he minds the Azkaban guards
stationing themselves around the entrances to the school grounds. He
wasn't happy about it, but he agreed.
Not happy? Why shouldn't he be happy, if they're there to catch Black?
Dumbledore isn't fond of the Azkaban guards,
Nor am 1, if it comes to that... but when you're dealing with a wizard
like Black, you sometimes have to join forces with those you'd rather
avoid.
If they save Harry then I will never say another word against them,
said Mr. Weasley wearily. 
s late, Molly, we


Harry heard chairs move. As quietly as he could, he hurried down the
passage to the bar and out of sight. The parlor door opened, and a few
seconds later footsteps told him that Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were climbing
the stairs.

The bottle of rat tonic was lying under the table they had sat at
earlier. Harry waited until he heard Mr. and Mrs. Weasley's bedroom door
close, then headed back upstairs with the bottle.

Fred and George were crouching in the shadows on the landing, heaving
with laughter as they listened to Percy dismantling his and Ron's room
in search of his badge.


ve got it," Fred whispered to Harry. "We


The badge now read Bighead Boy.

Harry forced a laugh, went to give Ron the rat tonic, then shut himself
in his room and lay down on his bed.

So Sirius Black was after him. This explained everything. Fudge had been
lenient with him because he was so relieved to find him alive. He'd made
Harry promise to stay in Diagon Alley where there were plenty of wizards
to keep an eye on him. And he was sending two Ministry cars to take them
all to the station tomorrow, so that the Weasleys could look after Harry
until he was on the train.

Harry lay listening to the muffled shouting next door and wondered why
he didn't feel more scared. Sirius Black had murdered thirteen people
with one curse; Mr. and Mrs, Weasley obviously thought Harry would be
panic-stricken if he knew the truth. But Harry happened to agree
wholeheartedly with Mrs. Weasley that the safest place on earth was
wherever Albus Dumbledore happened to be. Didn't people always say that
Dumbledore was the only person Lord Voldemort had ever been afraid of?
Surely Black, as Voldemort's right-hand man, would be just as frightened
of him?

And then there were these Azkaban guards everyone kept talking about.
They seemed to scare most people senseless, and if they were stationed
all around the school, Black's chances of getting inside seemed very
remote.

No, all in all, the thing that bothered Harry most was the fact that his
chances of visiting Hogsmeade now looked like zero. Nobody would want
Harry to leave the safety of the castle until Black was caught; in fact,
Harry suspected his every move would be carefully watched until the
danger had passed.

He scowled at the dark ceiling. Did they think he couldn't look after
himself? He'd escaped Lord Voldemort three times; he wasn't completely
useless....

Unbidden, the image of the beast in the shadows of Magnolia Crescent
crossed his mind. What to do when you know the worst is coming...


m not going to be murdered," Harry said out loud.

"That
 said his mirror sleepily.

CHAPTER FIVE

THE DEMENTOR

Tom woke Harry the next morning with his usual toothless grin and a cup
of tea. Harry got dressed and was just persuading a disgruntled Hedwig
to get back into her cage when Ron banged his way into the room, pulling
a sweatshirt over his head and looking irritable.


 he said. 
s accusing me of dripping tea on
his photo of Penelope Clearwater. You know," Ron grimaced, "his
girlfriend. She



ve got something to tell you," Harry began, but they were interrupted
by Fred and George, who had looked in to congratulate Ron on infuriating
Percy again.

They headed down to breakfast, where Mr. Weasley was reading the front
page of the Daily Prophet with a furrowed brow and Mrs. Weasley was
telling Hermione and Ginny about a love potion she
What were you saying?
Later,
s
narrow staircase and piling them up near the door, with Hedwig and
Hermes, Percy
It's all right, Crookshanks,
I'll let you out on the train.
You won't,
What about poor Scabbers, eh?
They're here, he said. 


Mr. Weasley marched Harry across the short stretch of pavement toward
the first of two old- fashioned dark green cars, each of which was
driven by a furtive-looking wizard wearing a suit of emerald velvet.


 said Mr. Weasley, glancing up and down the crowded
street.

Harry got into the back of the car and was shortly joined by Hermione,
Ron, and, to Ron's disgust, Percy.

The journey to King's Cross was very uneventful compared with Harry's
trip on the Knight Bus. The Ministry of Magic cars seemed almost
ordinary. though Harry noticed that they could slide through gaps that
Uncle Vernon's new company car certainly couldn't have managed. They
reached King's Cross with twenty minutes to spare; the Ministry drivers
found them trolleys, unloaded their trunks, touched their hats in salute
to Mr. Weasley, and drove away, somehow managing to jump to the head of
an unmoving line at the traffic lights.

Mr. Weasley kept close to Harry's elbow all the way into the station.


 he said, glancing around them. 
s do this in pairs, as
there are so many of us. I


Mr. Weasley strolled toward the barrier between platforms nine and ten,
pushing Harry's trolley and apparently very interested in the InterCity
125 that had just arrived at platform nine. With a meaningful look at
Harry, he leaned casually against the barrier. Harry imitated him.

In a moment, they had fallen sideways through the solid metal onto
platform nine and three- quarters and looked up to see the Hogwarts
Express, a scarlet steam engine, puffing smoke over a platform packed
with witches and wizards seeing their children onto the train.

Percy and Ginny suddenly appeared behind Harry. They were panting and
had apparently taken the barrier at a run.


s Penelope!" said Percy, smoothing his hair and going Pink
again. Ginny caught Harry
t miss his shiny badge.
stood back to let him on. They leaned out of the window and waved at Mr.
and Mrs. Weasley until the train turned a corner and blocked them from
view.

"I need to talk to you in private," Harry muttered to Ron and Hermione
as the train picked up speed.

"Go away, Ginny," said Ron.

"Oh, that
 said Ginny huffily, and she stalked off.

Harry, Ron, and Hermione set off down the corridor, looking for an empty
compartment, but all were full except for the one at the very end of the
train.

This had only one occupant, a man sitting fast asleep next to the
window. Harry, Ron, and Hermione checked on the threshold. The Hogwarts
Express was usually reserved for students and they had never seen an
adult there before, except for the witch who pushed the food cart.

The stranger was wearing an extremely shabby set of wizard's robes that
had been darned in several places. He looked ill and exhausted. Though
quite young, his light brown hair was flecked with gray.


you reckon he is?" Ron hissed as they sat down and slid the door
shut, taking the seats farthest away from the window.

"Professor R. J. Lupin," whispered Hermione at once.

"How d



s on his case," she replied, pointing at the luggage rack over the
man
Wonder what he teaches?
s pallid
profile.

"That
 whispered Hermione. 
s only one vacancy, isn


Harry, Ron, and Hermione had already had two Defense Against the Dark
Arts teachers, both of whom had lasted only one year. There were rumors
that the job was jinxed.


s up to it," said Ron doubtfully. "He looks like on,
good hex would finish him off, doesn
 He turned to
Harry. 


Harry explained all about Mr. and Mrs. Weasley's argument and the
warning Mr. Weasley had just given him. \When he'd finished, Ron looked
thunderstruck, and Hermione had her hands over her mouth. She finally
lowered them to say, 
ll have to be really, really careful. don



t go looking for trouble," said Harry, nettled. "Trouble usually
finds me."

"How thick would Harry have to be, to go looking for a nutter who wants
to kill him?" said Ron shakily.

They were taking the news worse than Harry had expected. Both Ron and
Hermione seemed to be much more frightened of Black than he was.

"No one knows how he got out of Azkaban," said Ron uncomfortably. "No
one



ll catch him, won
 said Hermione earnestly. 
ve got all the Muggles looking out for him too...." "What
 said Ron suddenly.

A faint, tinny sort of whistle was coming from somewhere. The, looked
all around the compartment.


s coming from your trunk, Harry," said Ron, standing UP and reaching
into the luggage rack. A moment later he had pulled the Pocket
Sneakoscope out from between Harry
s hand and glowing brilliantly.

"Is that a Sneakoscope?" said Hermione interestedly, standing up for a
better look.

"Yeah... mind you, it
 Ron said. 
s leg to send it to Harry."

"Were you doing anything untrustworthy at the time?" said Hermione
shrewdly.

"No! Well... I wasn
s not
really up to long journeys... but how else was I supposed to get Harry



 Harry advised as the Sneakoscope whistled
piercingly, 
ll wake him up."

He nodded toward Professor Lupin. Ron stuffed the Sneakoscope into a
particularly horrible pair of Uncle Vernon
We could get it checked in Hogsmeade,
They sell that sort of thing in Dervish and Banges, magical instruments
and stuff. Fred and George told me.
Do you know much about Hogsmeade?
I've read
it's the only entirely non-Muggle settlement in Britain --
Yeah, I think it is,
But that's not Why I want to go. I just want to get inside Honey
Dukes.
What's that?
It's this sweetshop,
where they've got everything... Pepper Imps -- they make you smoke at
the mouth -- and great fat Chocoballs full of strawberry mousse and
clotted cream, and really excellent sugar quills, which you can suck in
class and just look like you're thinking what to write next --
But Hogsmeade's a very interesting place, isn't it?
In Sites of Historical Sorcery it says the inn was the
headquarters for the 1612 goblin rebellion, and the Shrieking Shades
supposed to be the most severely haunted building in Britain --
-- and massive sherbert balls that make you levitate a few inches off
the ground while you're sucking them,
Won't it be nice to get out of school for a bit and explore Hogsmeade?
'Spect it will,
You'll have to tell me when
You've found out.
What d'you mean?
I can't go. The Dursleys didn't sign my permission form, and Fudge
wouldn't either.
You're not allowed to come? But -- no way -- McGonagall or someone
will give you permission -- 
Well, look who it is,
Potty and the Weasel.
I heard your father finally got his hands on some gold this summer,
Weasley,
Did your mother die of shock?
s basket to the floor.
Professor Lupin gave a snort.

"Who
 said Malfoy, taking an automatic step backward as he
spotted Lupin.


 said Harry, who got to his feet, too, in case he needed
to hold Ron back. 


Malfoy's pale eyes narrowed; he wasn't fool enough to pick a fight right
under a teacher's nose.


mon," he muttered resentfully to Crabbe and Goyle, and they
disappeared.

Harry and Ron sat down again, Ron massaging his knuckles.

"I
 he said angrily.

m going to get
hold of his head and --"

Ron made a violent gesture in midair.

"Ron," hissed Hermione, pointing at Professor Lupin, "be careful..."

But Professor Lupin was still fast asleep.

The rain thickened as the train sped yet farther north; the windows were
now a solid, shimmering gray, which graduily darkened until lanterns
flickered into life all along the corridors and over the luggage racks.
The train rattled, the rain hammered, the ind roared, but still,
Professor Lupin slept.

"We must be nearly there," said Ron, leaning forward to look past
Professor Lupin at the now completely black window.

The words had hardly left him when the train started to slow down.

"Great," said Ron, getting up and walking carefully past Professor Lupin
to try and see outside. "I
We can't be there yet,
So why're we stopping?
'What's going on?
s voice from behind Harry.

"Ouch!" gasped Hermione. "Ron, that was my foot!"

Harry felt his way back to his seat.

"D
ve broken down?"

"Dunno..."

There was a squeaking sound, and Harry saw the dim black outline of Ron,
wiping a patch clean on the window and peering out.

"There
 Ron said. 


The compartment door suddenly opened and someone fell painfully over
Harry's legs.


you know what
Hullo, Neville,
Harry? Is that you? What's happening?
No idea -- sit down --
I'm going to go and ask the driver what's going on,
s
voice. Harry felt her pass him, heard the door slide open again, and
then a thud and two loud squeals of pain.

"Who



s that?"

"Ginny?"

"Hermione?"

"What are you doing?"

"I was looking for Ron --" "Come in and sit down --"

"Not here!" said Harry hurriedly. "I



 said Neville.


 said a hoarse voice suddenly.

Professor Lupin appeared to have woken up at last. Harry could hear
movements in his corner.

None of them spoke.

There was a soft, crackling noise, and a shivering light filled the
compartment. Professor Lupin appeared to be holding a handful of flames.
They illuminated his tired, gray face, but his eyes looked alert and
wary.


 he said in the same hoarse voice, and he got
slowly to his feet with his handful of fire held out in front of him.

But the door slid slowly open before Lupin could reach it.

Standing in the doorway, illuminated by the shivering flames in Lupin's
hand, was a cloaked figure that towered to the ceiling. Its face was
completely hidden beneath its hood. Harry's eyes darted downward, and
what he saw made his stomach contract. There was a hand protruding from
the cloak and it was glistening, grayish, slimy-looking, and scabbed,
like something dead that had decayed in water...

But it was visible only for a split second. As though the creature
beneath the cloak sensed Harry's gaze, the hand was suddenly withdrawn
into the folds of its black cloak.

And then the thing beneath the hood, whatever it was, drew a long, slow,
rattling breath, as though it were trying to suck something more than
air from its surroundings.

An intense cold swept over them all. Harry felt his own breath catch in
his chest. The cold went deeper than his skin. It was inside his chest,
it was inside his very heart....

Harry's eyes rolled up into his head. He couldn't see. He was drowning
in cold. There was a rushing in his ears as though of water. He was
being dragged downward, the roaring growing louder. .

And then, from far away, he heard screaming, terrible, terrified,
pleading screams. He wanted to help whoever it was, he tried to move his
arms, but couldn't... a thick white fog was swirling around him, inside
him -




Someone was slapping his face.




Harry opened his eyes; there were lanterns above him, and the floor was
shaking -- the Hogwarts Express was moving again and the lights had come
back on. He seemed to have slid out of his seat onto the floor. Ron and
Hermione were kneeling next to him, and above them he could see Neville
and Professor Lupin watching. Harry felt very sick; when he put up his
hand to push his glasses back on, he felt cold sweat on his face.

Ron and Hermione heaved him back onto his seat.


 Ron asked nervously.


 said Harry, looking quickly toward the door. The hooded creature
had vanished. 
s that -- that thing? Who screamed?"

"No one screamed," said Ron, more nervously still.

Harry looked around the bright compartment. Ginny and Neville looked
back at him, both very pale.

"But I heard screaming --"

A loud snap made them all jump. Professor Lupin was breaking an enormous
slab of chocolate into pieces.

"Here," he said to Harry, handing him a particularly large piece. "Eat
it. It


Harry took the chocolate but didn't eat it.


 he asked Lupin.


 said Lupin, who was now giving chocolate to everyone else.



Everyone stared at him. Professor Lupin crumpled up the empty chocolate
wrapper and put it in his pocket.


 he repeated. 
ll help. I need to speak to the driver, excuse
me...

He strolled past Harry and disappeared into the corridor.

"Are you sure you
 said Hermione, watching Harry
anxiously.


t get it.... What happened?" said Harry, wiping more sweat off
his face.

"Well -- that thing -- the dementor -- stood there and looked around (I
mean, I think it did, I couldn
I thought you were having a fit or something,
You went sort of rigid and fell out of your seat and
started twitching -- 11


 said Hermione, 
None of us is
hiding Sirius Black under our cloaks. Go.
t move,
so Lupin muttered something, and a silvery thing shot out of his wand at
it, and it turned around and sort of glided away.... "

"It was horrible," said Neville, in a higher voice than usual. "Did YOU
feel how cold it got when it came in?"

I felt weird," said Ron, shifting his shoulders uncomfortably. "Like I


Ginny, who was huddled in her corner looking nearly as bad as Harry
felt, gave a small sob; Hermione went over and put a comforting arm
around her.


t any of you -- fall off your seats?" said Harry awkwardly.

"No," said Ron, looking anxiously at Harry again. "Ginny was shaking
like mad, though...."

Harry didn
I haven't poisoned that chocolate, you
know....
We'll be at Hogwarts in ten minutes,
Are you
all right, Harry?
t ask how Professor Lupin knew his name.

"Fine," he muttered, embarrassed.

They didn
s pet toad croaked
loudly from under his hat. It was freezing on the tiny platform; rain
was driving down in icy sheets.

"Firs
 called a familiar voice. Harry, Ron, and
Hermione turned and saw the gigantic outline of Hagrid at the other end
of the platform, beckoning the terrified-looking new students forward
for their traditional journey across the lake.


 Hagrid yelled over the heads of the crowd. They
waved at him, but had no chance to speak to him because the mass of
people around them was shunting them away along the platform. Harry,
Ron, and Hermione followed the rest of the school along the platform and
out onto a rough mud track, where at least a hundred stagecoaches
awaited the remaining students, each pulled, Harry could only assume, by
an invisible horse, because when they climbed inside and shut the door,
the coach set off all by itself, bumping and swaying in procession.

The coach smelled faintly of mold and straw. Harry felt better since the
chocolate, but still weak. Ron and Hermione kept looking at him
sideways, as though frightened he might collapse again.

As the carriage trundled toward a pair of magnificent wrought iron
gates, flanked with stone columns topped with winged boars,

Harry saw two more towering, hooded dementors, standing guard on either
side. A wave of cold sickness threatened to engulf him again; he leaned
back into the lumpy seat and closed his eyes until they had passed the
gates. The carriage picked up speed on the long, sloping drive up to the
castle; Hermione was leaning out of the tiny window, watching the many
turrets and towers draw nearer. At last, the carriage swayed to a halt,
and Hermione and Ron got out.

As Harry stepped down, a drawling, delighted voice sounded in his ear.




Malfoy elbowed past Hermione to block Harry's way up the stone steps to
the castle, his face gleeful and his pale eyes glinting maliciously.

 said Ron, whose jaw was clenched.


 said Malfoy loudly. 



 said a mild voice. Professor Lupin had just gotten
out of the next carriage.

Malfoy gave Professor Lupin an insolent stare, which took in the patches
on his robes and the delapidated suitcase. With a tiny hint of sarcasm
in his voice, he said, 
 then he smirked at
Crabbe and Goyle and led them up the steps into the castle.

Hermione prodded Ron in the back to make him hurry, and the three of
them joined the crowd swarming up the steps, through the giant oak front
doors, into the cavernous entrance hall, which was lit with flaming
torches, and housed a magnificent marble staircase that led to the upper
floors.

The door into the Great Hall stood open at the right; Harry followed the
crowd toward it, but had barely glimpsed the enchanted ceiling, which
was black and cloudy tonight, when a voice called, 


Harry and Hermione turned around, surprised. Professor McGonagall,
Transfiguration teacher and head of Gryffindor House, was calling over
the heads of the crowd. She was a sternlooking witch who wore her hair
in a tight bun; her sharp eyes were framed with square spectacles. Harry
fought his way over to her with a feeling of foreboding: Professor
McGonagall had a way of making him feel he must have done something
wrong.


s no need to look so worried -- I just want a word in MY office,"
she told them. "Move along there, Weasley."

Ron stared as Professor McGonagall ushered Harry and Hermione away from
the chattering crowd; they accompanied her across the entrance hall, up
the marble staircase, and along a corridor.

Once they were in her office, a small room with a large, welcoming fire,
Professor McGonagall motioned Harry and Hermione to sit down. She
settled herself behind her desk and said abruptly, "Professor Lupin sent
an owl ahead to say that you were taken ill on the train, Potter."

Before Harry could reply, there was a soft knock on the door and Madam
Pomfrey, the nurse, came bustling in.

Harry felt himself going red in the face. It was bad enough that he
I'm fine,
I don't need anything


s you, is it?" said Madam Pomfrey, ignoring this and bending
down to stare closely at him. "I suppose you



 said Professor McGonagall.

They exchanged a dark look, and Madam Pomfrey clucked disapprovingly.


s
hair and feeling his forehead. "He won
s all clammy. Terrible things, they are, and the effect they
have on people who are already delicate

"I
 said Harry crossly.


re not," said Madam Pomfrey absentmindedly, now taking
his pulse.

"What does he need?" said Professor McGonagall crisply. "Bed rest?
Should he perhaps spend tonight in the hospital wing?"

"I
 said Harry, jumping up. The thought of what Draco Malfoy
would say if he had to go to the hospital wing was torture.


 said Madam
Pomfrey, who was now trying to peer into Harry's eyes.


ve already had some," said Harry. "Professor Lupin gave me some. He
gave it to all of us."

"Did he, now?" said Madam Pomfrey approvingly. "So we



 Professor McGonagall said
sharply.


said Harry.




Harry went back into the corridor with Madam Pomfrey, who left for the
hospital wing, muttering to herself He had to wait only a few minutes;
then Hermione emerged looking very happy about something, followed by
Professor McGonagall, and the three of them made their way back down the
marble staircase to the Great Hall.

It was a sea of pointed black hats; each of the long House tables was
lined with students, their faces glimmering by the light of thousands of
candles, which were floating over the tables in midair. Professor
Flitwick, who was a tiny little wizard with a shock of white hair, was
carrying an ancient hat and a three-legged stool out of the hall.


 said Hermione softly, 
ve missed the Sorting!"

New students at Hogwarts were sorted into Houses by trying on the
sorting Hat, which shouted out the House they were best suited to
(Gryffindor, Ravenclaw, Hufflepuff, or Slytherin). Professor McGonagall
strode off toward her empty seat at the staff table, and Harry and
Hermione set off in the other direction, as quietly as possible, toward
the Gryffindor table. People looked around at them as they passed along
the back of the hall, and a few of them pointed at Harry. Had the story
of his collapsing in front of the dementor traveled that fast?

He and Hermione sat down on either side of Ron, who had saved them
seats.

"What was all that about?" he muttered to Harry.

Harry started to explain in a whisper, but at that moment the headmaster
stood up to speak, and he broke off.

Professor Dumbledore, though very old, always gave an impression of
great energy. He had several feet of long silver hair and beard,
half-moon spectacles, and an extremely crooked nose. He was often
described as the greatest wizard of the age, but that wasn
t help trusting Albus Dumbledore, and as Harry
watched him beaming around at the students, he felt really calm for the
first time since the dementor had entered the train compartment.

"Welcome!" said Dumbledore, the candlelight shimmering on his beard.
"Welcome to another year at Hogwarts! I have a few things to say to you
all, and as one of them is very serious, I think it best to get it out
of the way before you become befuddled by our excellent feast...."

Dumbledore cleared his throat and continued, "As you will all be aware
after their search of the Hogwarts Express, our school is presently
playing host to some of the dementors of Azkaban, who are here on
Ministry of Magic business."

He paused, and Harry remembered what Mr. Weasley had said about
Dumbledore not being happy with the dementors guarding the school.

"They are stationed at every entrance to the grounds," Dumbledore
continued, "and while they are with us, I must make it plain that nobody
is to leave school without permission. Dementors are not to be fooled by
tricks or disguises -- or even Invisibility Cloaks," he added blandly,
and Harry and Ron glanced at each other. "It is not in the nature of a
dementor to understand pleading or excuses. I therefore warn each and
every one of you to give them no reason to harm you. I look to the
prefects, and our new Head Boy and Girl, to make sure that no student
runs afoul of the dementors," he said.

Percy, who was sitting a few seats down from Harry, puffed out his chest
again and stared around impressively. Dumbledore paused again; he looked
very seriously around the hall, and nobody moved or made a sound.

"On a happier note," he continued, I am pleased to welcome two new
teachers to our ranks this year.

"First, Professor Lupin, who has kindly consented to fill the post of
Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher."

There was some scattered, rather unenthusiastic applause. Only those who
had been in the compartment on the train with Professor Lupin clapped
hard, Harry among them. Professor Lupin looked particularly shabby next
to all the other teachers in their best robes.

"Look at Snape!" Ron hissed in Harry
As to our second new appointment,
Well, I am sorry to tell you
that Professor Kettleburn, our Care of Magical Creatures teacher,
retired at the end of last year in order to enjoy more time with his
remaining limbs. However, I am delighted to say that his place will be
filled by none other than Rubeus Hagrid, who has agreed to take on this
teaching job in addition to his gamekeeping duties.
We should've known!
Who else would
have assigned us a biting book?
Well, I think that's everything of importance,
Let
the feast begin!
t a fully
qualified wizard; he had been expelled from Hogwarts in his third year
for a crime he had not committed. It had been Harry, Ron, and Hermione
who had cleared Hagrid
Congratulations, Hagrid!
 table.

"All down ter you three," said Hagrid, wiping his shining face on his
napkin as he looked up at them., "Can
d had enough.... It


Overcome with emotion, he buried his face in his napkin, and Professor
McGonagall shooed them away.

Harry, Ron, and Hermione joined the Gryffindors streaming up the marble
staircase and, very tired now, along more corridors, UP more and more
stairs, to the hidden entrance to Gryffindor Tower's large portrait of a
fat lady in a pink dress asked them, 



 Percy called from behind the crowd.

s 
!"

"Oh no," said Neville Longbottom sadly. He always had trouble
remembering the passwords.

Through the portrait hole and across the common room, the girls and boys
divided toward their separate staircases. Harry climbed the spiral stair
with no thought in his head except how glad he was to be back. They
reached their familiar, circular dormitory with its five four-poster
beds, and Harry, looking around, felt he was home at last.

CHAPTER SIX

TALONS AND TEA LEAVES

When Harry, Ron, and Hermione entered the Great Hall for breakfast the
next day, the first thing they saw was Draco Malfoy, who seemed to be
entertaining a large group of Slytherins with a very funny story. As
they passed, Malfoy did a ridiculous impression of a swooning fit and
there was a roar of laughter.

"Ignore him," said Hermione, who was right behind Harry. "Just ignore
him, it



 shrieked Pansy Parkinson, a Slytherin girl with a face
like a pug. 


Harry dropped into a seat at the Gryffindor table, next to George
Weasley.


 said George, passing then, over.

s up with you, Harry?"

"Malfoy," said Ron, sitting down on George
That little git,
He wasn't so cocky last night when
the dementors were down at our end of the train. Came runing into our
compartment, didn't he, Fred?
Nearly wet himself,
I wasn't too happy myself,
They're horrible things,
those dementors....
Sort of freeze your insides, don't they?
You didn't pass out, though, did you?
Forget it, Harry,
Dad had to go out to Azkaban
one time, remember, Fred? And he said it was the worst place he'd ever
been, he came back all weak and shaking.... They suck the happiness out
of a place, dementors. Most of the prisoners go mad in there.
Anyway, we'll see how happy Malfoy looks after our first Quidditch
match,
Gryffindor versus Slytherin, first game of the
season, remember?
 Ooh, good, we're starting some new subjects today,


They watched in astonishment as the little knight tugged his sword out
of its scabbard and began brandishing it violently, hopping up and down
in rage. But the sword was too long for him; a particularly wild swing
made him overbalance, and he landed facedown in the grass.


 said Harry, moving closer to the picture.




The knight seized his sword again and used it to push himself back up,
but the blade sank deeply into the grass and, though he pulled with all
his might, he couldn't get it out again. Finally, he had to flop back
down onto the grass and push up his visor to mop his sweating face.


 said Harry, taking advantage of the knight's exhaustion,

re looking for the North Tower. You don



 The knight's rage seemed to vanish instantly. He clanked to
his feet and shouted, 


He gave the sword another fruitless tug, tried and failed to mount the
fat pony, gave up, and cried, 


And he ran, clanking loudly, into the left side of the frame and out of
sight.

They hurried after him along the corridor, following the sound of his
armor. Every now and then they spotted him running through a picture
ahead.


 yelled the knight, and
they saw him reappear in front of an alarmed group of women in
crinolines, whose picture hung on the wall of a narrow spiral staircase.

Puffing loudly, Harry, Ron, and Hermione climbed the tightly spiraling
steps, getting dizzier and dizzier, until at last they heard the murmur
of voices above them and knew they had reached the classroom.


 cried the knight, popping his head into a painting of some
sinister-looking monks. 



ll call you," muttered Ron as the knight disappeared, "if we
ever need someone mental."

They climbed the last few steps and emerged onto a tiny landing, where
most of the class was already assembled. There were no doors off this
landing, but Ron nudged Harry and pointed at the ceiling, where there
was a circular trapdoor with a brass plaque on it.

"
' Harry read. 
re we
supposed to get up there?"

As though in answer to his question, the trapdoor suddenly opened, and a
silvery ladder descended right at Harry
After you,
t look like a classroom at all, more like a cross between
someone
s shoulder as the class assembled around them, all
talking in whispers.

"Where is she?" Ron said.

A voice came suddenly out of the shadows, a soft, misty sort of voice.

"Welcome," it said. "How nice to see you in the physical world at last."

Harry
Sit, my children, sit,
Welcome to Divination,
My name is professor
Trelawney. You may not have seen me before. I find that descending too
often into the hustle and bustle of the main school clouds my Inner
Eye.
So you have
chosen to study Divination, the most difficult of all magical arts. I
must warn you at the outset that if you do not have the Sight, there is
very little I will be able to teach you.. Books can take you only so far
in this field....
t be much help in this
subject.

"Many witches and wizards, talented though they are in the area of loud
bangs and smells and sudden disappearings, are yet unable to penetrate
the veiled mysteries of the future," Professor Trelawney went on, her
enormous, gleaming eyes moving from face to nervous face. "It is a Gift
granted to few. You, boy," she said suddenly to Neville, who almost
toppled off his pouf. "Is your grandmother well?"

"I think so," said Neville tremulously.

"I wouldn
 said Professor Trelawney,
the firelight glinting on her long emerald earrings. Neville gulped.
Professor Trelawney continued placidly. 
 she shot suddenly at Parvati Patil, 


Parvati gave a startled look at Ron, who was right behind her and edged
her chair away from him.


 Professor Trelawney went on, 


A very tense silence followed this pronouncement, but Professor
Trelawney seemed unaware of it.


 she said to Lavender Brown, who was nearest and shrank
back in her chair, 


Lavender, looking relieved, stood up, took an enormous teapot from the
shelf, and put it down on the table in front of Professor Trelawney.




Lavender trembled.


 -- she caught Neville by the arm as he made to stand up --

ve broken your first cup, would you be so kind as to select
one of the blue patterned ones? I


Sure enough, Neville had no sooner reached the shelf of teacups when
there was a tinkle of breaking china. Professor Trelawney swept over to
him holding a dustpan and brush and said, 
t mind... thank you. ... "

When Harry and Ron had had their teacups filled, they went back to their
table and tried to drink the scalding tea quickly. They swilled the
dregs around as Professor Trelawney had instructed, then drained the
cups and swapped over.

"Right," said Ron as they both opened their books at pages five and six.
"What can you see in mine?"

"A load of soggy brown stuff," said Harry. The heavily perfumed smoke in
the room was making him feel sleepy and stupid.

"Broaden your minds, my dears, and allow your eyes to see past the
mundane!" Professor Trelawney cried through the gloom.

Harry tried to pull himself together.

"Right, you
 He consulted Unfogging
the Future. 
re going to have 
 --
sorry about that -- but there
great happiness
re going to suffer but be
very happy...."

"You need your Inner Eye tested, if you ask me," said Ron, and they both
had to stifle their laughs as Professor Trelawney gazed in their
direction.

"My turn..." Ron peered into Harry
There's a blob a bit like a bowler hat,
Maybe you're
going to work for the Ministry of Magic...

He turned the teacup the other way up.


s that?" He scanned
his copy of Unfogging the Future. "

Excellent, you can lend me some... and there
 he turned
the cup again, 


Professor Trelawney whirled around as Harry let out a snort of laughter.


 she said reprovingly to Ron, sweeping over
and snatching Harry's cup from him. Everyone went quiet to watch.

Professor Trelawney was staring into the teacup, rotating it
counterclockwise.





 said Hermione in a loud whisper. Professor
Trelawney stared at her.


 said Hermione. 


Harry and Ron stared at her with a mixture of amazement and admiration.
They had never heard Hermione speak to a teacher like that before.
Professor Trelawney chose not to reply. She lowered her huge eyes to
Harry's cup again and continued to turn it.


 said Ron sheepishly.




Everyone was staring, transfixed, at Professor Trelawney, who gave the
cup a final turn, gasped, and then screamed.

There was another tinkle of breaking china; Neville had smashed his
second cup. Professor Trelawney sank into a vacant armchair, her
glittering hand at her heart and her eyes closed.


t ask me...."

"What is it, Professor?" said Dean Thomas at once. Everyone had got to
their feet, and slowly they crowded around Harry and Ron
s chair to get a

good look at Harry
My dear,
s huge eyes opened dramatically,

"You have the Grim."

"The what?" said Harry.

He could tell that he wasn
t understand; Dean
Thomas shrugged at him and Lavender Brown looked puzzled, but nearly
everybody else clapped their hands to their mouths in horror.

"The Grim, my dear, the Grim!" cried Professor Trelawney, who looked
shocked that Harry hadn
The giant, spectral dog that
haunts churchyards! My dear boy, it is an omen -- the worst omen -- of
death!
s stomach lurched. That dog on the cover of Death Omens in
Flourish and Blotts -the dog in the shadows of Magnolia Crescent...
Lavender Brown clapped her hands to her mouth too. Everyone was looking
at Harry, everyone except Hermione, who had gotten up and moved around
to the back of Professor Trelawney
I don't think it looks like a Grim,
You'll forgive me for saying so, my dear, but I perceive very little
aura around you. Very little receptivity to the resonances of the
future.
It looks like a Grim if you do this,
but it looks more like a donkey from here,
When you've all finished deciding whether I'm going to die Or not!
I think we will leave the lesson here for today,
Yes... please pack away your
things....
s eyes.

"Until we meet again," said Professor Trelawney faintly, "fair fortune
be yours. Oh, and dear" -- she pointed at Neville -- "you


Harry, Ron, and Hermione descended Professor Trelawney's ladder and the
winding stair in silence, then set off for Professor McGonagall's
Transfiguration lesson. It took them so long to find her classroom that,
early as they had left Divination, they were only just in time.

Harry chose a seat right at the back of the room, feeling as though he
were sitting in a very bright spotlight; the rest of the class kept
shooting furtive glances at him, as though he were about to drop dead at
any moment. He hardly heard what Professor McGonagall was telling them
about Animagi (wizards who could transform at will into animals), and
wasn't even watching when she transformed herself in front of their eyes
into a tabby cat with spectacle markings around her eyes.


 said Professor McGonagall,
turning back into herself with a faint pop, and staring around at them
all. 
s the first time my transformation


Everybody's heads turned toward Harry again, but nobody spoke. Then
Hermione raised her hand.


ve just had our first Divination class, and we
were reading the tea leaves, and --"

"Ah, of course," said Professor McGonagall, suddenly frowning.

"There is no need to say any more, Miss Granger. Tell me, which of you
will be dying this year?"

Everyone stared at her.

"Me," said Harry, finally.

"I see," said Professor McGonagall, fixing Harry with her beady eyes.
"Then you should know, Potter, that Sibyll Trelawney has predicted the
death of one student a year since she arrived at this school. None of
them has died yet. Seeing death omens is her favorite way of greeting a
new class. If it were not for the fact that I never speak ill of my
colleagues --"

Professor McGonagall broke off, and they saw that her nostrils had gone
white. She went on, more calmly, "Divination is one of the most
imprecise branches of magic. I shall not conceal from you that I have
very little patience with it. True Seers are very rare, and Professor
Trelawney --"

She stopped again, and then said, in a very matter-of-fact tone, "You
look in excellent health to me, Potter, so you will excuse me if I don


Hermione laughed. Harry felt a bit better. It was harder to feel scared
of a lump of tea leaves away from the dim red light and befuddling
perfume of Professor Trelawney's classroom. Not everyone was convinced,
however. Ron still looked worried, and Lavender whispered, 
s cup?"

When the Transfiguration class had finished, they joined the crowd
thundering toward the Great Hall for lunch.

"Ron, cheer up," said Hermione, pushing a dish of stew toward him. "You
heard what Professor McGonagall said."

Ron spooned stew onto his plate and picked up his fork but didn
Harry,
You haven't seen a great
black dog anywhere, have you?
Yeah, I have,
I saw one the night I left the Dursleys'. 
Probably a stray,
Hermione, if Harry's seen a Grim, that's -- that's bad,
My
-- my uncle Bilius saw one and -- and he died twenty-four hours later!
Coincidence,
You don't know what you're talking about!
Grims scare the living daylights out of most wizards!
There you are, then,
They see the
Grim and die of fright. The Grim's not an omen, it's the cause of death!
And Harry's still with us because he's not stupid enough to see one and
think, right, well, I'd better kick the bucket then!
I think Divination seems very woolly,
A lot of guesswork, if you ask me.
There was nothing woolly about the Grim in that cup!
You didn't seem quite so confident when you were telling Harry it was a
sheep,
Professor Trelawney said you didn't have the right aura! You just don't
like being bad at something for a change!
If being good at Divination means I have to pretend to see death omens
in a lump of tea leaves, I'm not sure I'll be studying it much longer!
That lesson was absolute rubbish compared with my Arithmancy class!
What's she talking about?
She hasn't been to an
Arithmancy class yet.
s rain
had cleared; the sky was a clear, pale gray, and the grass was springy
and damp underfoot as they set off for their first ever Care of Magical
Creatures class.

Ron and Hermione weren
s hut on
the edge of the Forbidden Forest. It was only when he spotted three
only-too- familiar backs ahead of them that he realized they must be
having these lessons with the Slytherins. Malfoy was talking animatedly
to Crabbe and Goyle, who were chortling. Harry was quite sure he knew
what they were talking about.

Hagrid was waiting for his class at the door of his hut. He stood in his
moleskin overcoat, with Fang the boarhound at his heels, looking
impatient to start.

"C
 he called as the class approached. 
 up! Everyone here? Right,
follow me!"

For one nasty moment, Harry thought that Hagrid was going to lead them
into the forest; Harry had had enough unpleasant experiences in there to
last him a lifetime. However, Hagrid strolled off around the edge of the
trees, and five minutes later, they found themselves outside a kind of
paddock. There was nothing in there.

"Everyone gather 
 he called. 
s it -- make
sure yeh can see -- now, firs
ll want ter do is open yer
books --"

"How?" said the cold, drawling voice of Draco Malfoy.

"Eh?" said Hagrid.

"How do we open our books?" Malfoy repeated. He took out his copy of The
Monster Book of Monsters, which he had bound shut with a length of rope.
Other people took theirs out too; some, like Harry, had belted their
book shut; others had crammed them inside tight bags or clamped them
together with binder clips.

"Hasn
 anyone bin able ter open their books?" said Hagrid,
looking crestfallen.

The class all shook their heads.

"Yeh
em," said Hagrid, as though this was the most
obvious thing in the world. "Look --"

He took Hermione
Oh, how silly we've all been!
We should have stroked
them! why didn't we guess!
I -- I thought they were funny,
Oh, tremendously funny!
Really witty, giving us books
that try and rip our hands off!
Shut up, Malfoy,
s first lesson to be a success.

"Righ
 said Hagrid, who seemed to have lost his thread, 
ve got yer books an
 - - now yeh need the Magical Creatures.
Yeah. So I
 get 


He strode away from them into the forest and out of sight.


 said Malfoy loudly. 
ll have a fit when I tell him

"Shut up, Malfoy," Harry repeated.

"Careful, Potter, there
Oooooooh!
Gee up, there!
Hippogriffs!
Beau'iful,
aren' they?
 gleaming coats, changing smoothly from
feather to hair, each of them a different color: stormy gray, bronze,
pinkish roan, gleaming chestnut, and inky black.

"So," said Hagrid, rubbing his hands together and beaming around, "if
yeh wan


No one seemed to want to. Harry, Ron, and Hermione, however, approached
the fence cautiously.


 thing yeh gotta know abou
re proud,"
said Hagrid. "Easily offended, hippogriffs are. Don
cause it might be the last thing yeh do."

Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle weren
Yeh always wait fer the hippogriff ter make the firs' move,
It's polite, see? Yeh walk toward him, and yeh bow, an' yeh
wait. If he bows back, yeh're allowed ter touch him. If he doesn' bow,
then get away from him sharpish, 'cause those talons hurt.




Most of the class backed farther away in answer. Even Harry, Ron, and
Hermione had misgivings. The hippogriffs were tossing their fierce heads
and flexing their powerful wings; they didn't seem to like being
tethered like this.


 said Hagrid, with a pleading look.


ll do it," said Harry.

There was an intake of breath from behind him, and both Lavender and
Parvati whispered, "Oooh, no, Harry, remember your tea leaves!"

Harry ignored them. He climbed over the paddock fence.

"Good man, Harry!" roared Hagrid. "Right then -- let


He untied one of the chains, pulled the gray hippogriff away from its
fellows, and slipped off its leather collar. The class on the other side
of the paddock seemed to be holding its breath. Malfoy's eyes were
narrowed maliciously.


 said Hagrid quietly. 
ve got eye contact, now
try not ter blink.... Hippogriffs don


Harry's eyes immediately began to water, but he didn't shut thern.
Buckbeak had turned his great, sharp head and was staring at Harry with
one fierce orange eye. 
s it," said Hagrid. "Tha


Harry didn't feel much like exposing the back of his neck to Buckbeak,
but he did as he was told. He gave a short bow and then looked up.

The hippogriff was still staring haughtily at him. It didn't move.


 said Hagrid, sounding worried. 
s enormous surprise, the hippogriff suddenly bent its
scaly front knees and sank into what was an unmistakable bow.

"Well done, Harry!" said Hagrid, ecstatic. "Right -- yeh can touch him!
Pat his beak, go on!"

Feeling that a better reward would have been to back away, Harry moved
slowly toward the hippogriff and reached out toward it. He patted the
beak several times and the hippogriff closed its eyes lazily, as though
enjoying it.

The class broke into applause, all except for Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle,
who were looking deeply disappointed.

"Righ
 said Hagrid. 
 let yeh ride him!"

This was more than Harry had bargained for. He was used to a broomstick;
but he wasn
Yeh climb up there, jus' behind the wing joint,
an' mind
yeh don' pull any of his feathers out, he won' like that....
t sure where to hold on;
everything in front of him was covered with feathers.

"Go on, then
 roared Hagrid, slapping the hippogriffs hindquarters.

Without warning, twelve-foot wings flapped open on either side of Harry,
he just had time to seize the hippogriff around the neck before he was
soaring upward. It was nothing like a broomstick, and Harry knew which
one he preferred; the hippogriff's wings beat uncomfortably on either
side of him, catching him under his legs and making him feel he was
about to be thrown off; the glossy feathers slipped under his fingers
and he didn't dare get a stronger grip; instead of the smooth action of
his Nimbus Two Thousand, he now felt himself rocking backward and
forward as the hindquarters of the hippogriff rose and fell with its
wings.

Buckbeak flew him once around the paddock and then headed back to the
ground; this was the bit Harry had been dreading; he leaned back as the
smooth neck lowered, feeling he was going to slip off over the beak,
then felt a heavy thud as the four ill-assorted feet hit the ground. He
just managed to hold on and push himself straight again.


 roared Hagrid as everyone except Malfoy, Crabbe, and
Goyle cheered. 


Emboldened by Harry's success, the rest of the class climbed cautiously
into the paddock. Hagrid untied the hippogriffs one by one, and soon
people were bowing nervously, all over the paddock. Neville ran
repeatedly backward from his, which didn't seem to want to bend its
knees. Ron and Hermione practiced on the chestnut, while Harry watched.

Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle had taken over Buckbeak. He had bowed to
Malfoy, who was now patting his beak, looking disdainful.


 Malfoy drawled, loud enough for Harry to, hear him.

re not
dangerous at all, are you?" he said to the hippogriff. "Are you, you
great ugly brute?"

It happened in a flash of steely talons; Malfoy let out a highpitched
scream and next moment, Hagrid was wrestling Buckbeak back into his
collar as he strained to get at Malfoy, who lay curled in the grass,
blood blossoming over his robes.

"I
 Malfoy yelled as the class panicked. 
m dying, look at
me! It



!" said Hagrid, who had gone very white. "Someone help me
-- gotta get him outta here --"

Hermione ran to hold open the gate as Hagrid lifted Malfoy easily. As
they passed, Harry saw that there was a long, deep gash on Malfoy
They should fire him straight away!
It was Malfoy's fault!
I'm going to see if he's okay!
You think he'll be all right?
Course he will. Madam Pomfrey can mend cuts in about a second,
That was a really bad thing to happen in Hagrid's first class, though,
wasn't it?
Trust Malfoy to mess things up
for him....
t there.

"They wouldn
 said Hermione anxiously, not
touching her steak-and- kidney pudding.


d better not," said Ron, who wasn
Well, you can't say it wasn't an interesting first day back,
There's a light on in Hagrid's window,
If we hurried, we could go down and see him. It's still quite early...
t know," Hermione said slowly, and Harry saw her glance at him.

"I
 he said Pointedly. 
t got past the dementors yet, has he?"

So they put their things away and headed out of the portrait hole, glad
to meet nobody on their way to the front doors, as they weren
s hut, they knocked, and a voice growled, "C


Hagrid was sitting in his shirtsleeves at his scrubbed wooden table; his
boarhound, Fang, had his head in Hagrid's lap. One look told them that
Hagrid had been drinking a lot; there was a pewter tankard almost as big
as a bucket in front of him, and he seemed to be having difficulty
getting them into focus.


Spect it
 he said thickly, when he recognized them. 

reckon they
y a day before."

"You haven
 gasped Hermione.


 said Hagrid miserably, taking a huge gulp of whatever was in
the tankard. 
s only a matter o
 n



 said Ron as they all sat down. 
t serious, was it?"

"Madam Pomfrey fixed him best she could," said Hagrid dully, "but he
 it
..

"He
 said Harry at once. 
s
worth."

"School gov
 course," said Hagrid miseribly. "They
reckon I started too big. Shoulda left hippogriffs fer later... done
flobberworms or summat.... Jus
 lessons all
my fault...."

"It
s fault, Hagrid!" said Hermione earnestly.

"We
 said Harry. 
s Malfoy
t listening. We



t worry, Hagrid, we
 said Ron.

Tears leaked out of the crinkled corners of Hagrid's beetle-black eyes.
He grabbed both Harry and Ron and pulled them into a bone-breaking hug.


ve had enough to drink, Hagrid," said Hermione firmly. She
took the tankard from the table and went outside to empty it.

"At, maybe she
 said Hagrid, letting go of Harry and Ron, who
both staggered away, rubbing their ribs. Hagrid heaved himself out of
his chair and followed Hermione unsteadily outside. They heard a loud
splash.


s he done?" said Harry nervously as Hermione came back in with the
empty tankard.

"Stuck his head in the water barrel," said Hermione, putting the tankard
away.

Hagrid came back, his long hair and beard sopping wet, wiping the water
out of his eyes.

"That
 he said, shaking his head like a dog and drenching them
all. 
 see me, I really --

Hagrid stopped dead, staring at Harry as though he
WHAT D'YEH THINK YOU'RE DOIN', EH?
YEH'RE NOT TO GO WANDERIN' AROUND AFTER DARK,
HARRY! AN, YOU TWO! LETTIN' HIM!
C'mon!
I'm takin' yer all back up ter school,
an' don' let me catch yeh walkin' down ter see me after dark again. I'm
not worth that!
t reappear in classes until late on Thursday morning, when
the Slytherins and Gryffindors were halfway through double Potions. He
swaggered into the dungeon, his right arm covered in bandages and bound
up in a sling, acting, in Harry
How is it, Draco?
Does it hurt much?
Yeah,
Settle down, settle down,
t have said "settle
down" if they
d have given them detention. But
Malfoy had always been able to get away with anything in Snape
Sir,
sir, I'll need help cutting up these daisy roots,
because of my arm --
Weasley, cut up Malfoy's roots for him,
There's nothing wrong with your arm,
Weasley, you heard Professor Snape; cut up these roots.
s roots toward him, and began to
chop them roughly, so that they were all different sizes.

"Professor," drawled Malfoy, "Weasley


Snape approached their table, stared down his hooked nose at the roots,
then gave Ron an unpleasant smile from beneath his long, greasy black
hair.







Ron had spent the last quarter of an hour carefully shredding his own
roots into exactly equal pieces.


 said Snape in his most dangerous voice.

Ron shoved his own beautifully cut roots across the table a, Malfoy,
then took up the knife again.


ll need this shrivelfig skinned," said Malfoy, his voice
full of malicious laughter.

"Potter, you can skin Malfoy
 said Snape, giving Harry the
look of loathing he always reserved just for him.

Harry took Malfoy's shrivelfig as Ron began trying to repair the damage
to the roots he now had to use. Harry skinned the shrivelfig as fast as
he could and flung it back across the table at Malfoy without speaking.
Malfoy was smirking more broadly than ever.


 he asked them quietly.


 said Ron jerkily, without looking up.


m afraid he won
 said Malfoy in a tone of
mock sorrow. 
s not very happy about my injury --"

"Keep talking, Malfoy, and I
 snarled Ron.


s complained to the school governors. And to the Ministry of
Magic. Father
 -- he gave a huge, fake sigh -- 
ll ever
be the same again?"

"So that
re putting it on," said Harry, accidentally beheading
a dead caterpillar because his hand was shaking in anger. "To try to get
Hagrid fired."

"Well," said Malfoy, lowering his voice to a whisper, "partly, Potter.
But there are other benefits too. Weasley, slice my caterpillars for
me."

A few cauldrons away, Neville was in trouble. Neville regularly went to
pieces in Potions lessons; it was his worst subject, and his great fear
of Professor Snape made things ten times worse. His potion, which was
supposed to be a bright, acid green, had turned --

"Orange, Longbottom," said Snape, ladling some up and allowing to splash
back into the cauldron, so that everyone could see.

"Orange. Tell me, boy, does anything penetrate that thick skull of
yours? Didn
t I state plainly that a dash of leech juice would
suffice? What do I have to do to make you understand, Longbottom?"

Neville was pink and trembling. He looked as though he was on the verge
of tears.

"Please, sir," said Hermione, "please, I could help Neville put it right
--"

"I don
 said Snape
coldly, and Hermione went as pink as Neville. 


Snape moved away, leaving Neville breathless with fear.


 he moaned to Hermione.


 said Seamus Finnigan, leaning over to borrow Harry's brass
scales, 
s been sighted."

"Where?" said Harry and Ron quickly. On the other side of the table,
Malfoy looked up, listening closely.

"Not too far from here," said Seamus, who looked excited. "It was a
Muggle who saw him. 
t really understand. The Muggles
think he
t they? So she phoned the
telephone hot line. By the time the Ministry of Magic got there, he was
gone."

"Not too far from here... " Ron repeated, looking significantly at
Harry. He turned around and saw Malfoy watching closely. "What, Malfoy?
Need something else skinned?"

But Malfoy



Yeah, that's right,
Of course, if it was me,
I'd have done something
before now. I wouldn't be staying in school like a good boy, I'd be out
there looking for him.
What are you talking about, Malfoy?
Don't you know, Potter?
Know what?
Maybe you'd rather not risk your neck,
Want to leave it to
the dementors, do you? But if it was me, I'd want revenge. I'd hunt him
down myself.
What are you talking about?
You should have finished adding your ingredients by now;
this potion needs to stew before it can be drunk, so clear away while it
simmers and then we'll test Longbottom's... 
t see. Harry and Ron
packed away their unused ingredients and went to wash their hands and
ladles in the stone basin in the corner.

"What did Malfoy mean?" Harry muttered to Ron as he stuck his hands
under the icy jet that poured from the gargoyle
Why would I
want revenge on Black? He hasn't done anything to me -- yet.


s making it up," said Ron savagely. "He


The end of the lesson in sight, Snape strode over to Neville, who was
cowering by his cauldron.


round," said Snape, his black eyes glittering, and
watch what happens to Longbottom
t doubt,
he has done it wrong, his toad is likely to be poisoned."

The Gryffindors watched fearfully. The Slytherins looked excited. Snape
picked up Trevor the toad in his left hand and dipped a small spoon into
Neville
s throat.

There was a moment of hushed silence, in which Trevor gulped; then there
was a small pop, and Trevor the tadpole was wriggling in Snape
Five points from Gryffindor,
I told you not to help him, Miss Granger. Class dismissed.
Five points from Gryffindor because the potion was all right!

Why didn't You lie, Hermione? You should've said Neville did it all by
himself!
t answer. Ron looked around.

"Where is she?"

Harry turned too. They were at the top of the steps now, watching the
rest of the class pass them, heading for the Great Hall and lunch.

"She was right behind us," said Ron, frowning.

Malfoy passed them, walking between Crabbe and Goyle. He smirked at
Harry and disappeared.

"There she is," said Harry.

Hermione was panting slightly, hurrying up the stairs; one hand clutched
her bag, the other seemed to be tucking something down the front of her
robes.

"How did you do that?" said Ron.

"What?" said Hermione, joining them.

"One minute you were right behind us, the next moment, you were back at
the bottom of the stairs again."

"What?" Hermione looked slightly confused. "Oh -- I had to go back for
something. Oh no --"

A seam had split on Hermione
t surprised; he could see
that it was crammed with at least a dozen large and heavy books.

"Why are you carrying all these around with you?" Ron asked her.

"You know how many subjects I
 said Hermione breathlessly.

t hold these for me, could you?"

"But --" Ron was turning over the books she had handed him, looking at
the covers. "You havent got any of these subjects today. It



 said Hermione vaguely, but she packed all the books back into
her bag just the same. I hope there's something good for lunch, I'm
starving,
D'you get the feeling Hermione's not telling us something?Ron asked
Harry.

Professor Lupin wasn't there when they arrived at his first Defense
Against the Dark Arts lesson. They all sat down, took out their books,
quills, and parchment, and were talking when he finally entered the
room. Lupin smiled vaguely and placed his tatty old briefcase on the
teacher's desk. He was as shabby as ever but looked healthier than he
had on the train, as though he had had a few square meals.


 he said. 
s will be a practical lesson. You will need only your
wands."

A few curious looks were exchanged as the class put away their books.
They had never had a practical Defense Against the Dark Arts before,
unless you counted the memorable class last year when their old teacher
had brought a cageful of pixies -to class and set them loose.

"Right then," said Professor Lupin, when everyone was ready. "If you


Puzzled but interested, the class got to its feet and followed Professor
Lupin out of the classroom. He led them along the deserted corridor and
around a corner, where the first thing they saw was Peeves the
Poltergeist, who was floating upside down in midair and stuffing the
nearest keyhole with chewing gum.

Peeves didn't look up until Professor Lupin was two feet away; ,hen he
wiggled his curly-toed feet and broke into song.


 Peeves sang. 


Rude and unmanageable as he almost always was, Peeves usually showed
some respect toward the teachers. Everyone looked quickly at Professor
Lupin to see how he would take this; to their surprise, he was still
smiling.


d take that gum out of the keyhole if I were you, Peeves," he said
pleasantly. "Mr. Filch won


Filch was the Hogwarts caretaker, a bad-tempered, failed wizard who
waged a constant war against the students and, indeed, Peeves. However,
Peeves paid no attention to Professor Lupin's words, except to blow a
loud wet raspberry.

Professor Lupin gave a small sigh and took out his wand.


Please watch closely.
Waddiwasi! 
s left nostril; he whirled upright and
zoomed away, cursing.

"Cool, sit!" said Dean Thomas in amazement.

"Thank you, Dean," said Professor Lupin, putting his wand away again.
"Shall we proceed?"

They set off again, the class looking at shabby Professor Lupin with
increased respect. He led them down a second corridor and stopped, right
outside the staffroom door.

"Inside, please," said Professor Lupin, opening it and standing back.

The staffroom, a long, paneled room full of old, mismatched chairs, was
empty except for one teacher. Professor Snape was sitting in a low
armchair, and he looked around as the class filed in. His eyes were
glittering and there was a nasty sneer playing around his mouth. As
Professor Lupin came in and made to close the door behind him, Snape
said, "Leave it open, Lupin. I


He got to his feet and strode past the class, his black robes billowing
behind him. At the doorway he turned on his heel and said, 
s warned you, Lupin, but this class contains Neville Longbottom. I
would advise you not to entrust him with anything difficult. Not unless
Miss Granger is hissing instructions in his ear."

Neville went scarlet. Harry glared at Snape; it was bad enough that he
bullied Neville in his own classes, let alone doing it in front of other
teachers.

Professor Lupin had raised his eyebrows.

"I was hoping that Neville would assist me with the first stage of the
operation," he said, "and I am sure he will perform it admirably."

Neville
s lip curled, but
he left, shutting the door with a snap.

"Now, then," said Professor Lupin, beckoning the class toward the end of
the room, where there was nothing but an old wardrobe where the teachers
kept their spare robes. As Professor Lupin went to stand next to it, the
wardrobe gave a sudden wobble, banging off the wall.

"Nothing to worry about," said Professor Lupin calmly because a few
people had jumped backward in alarm. "There


Most people seemed to feel that this was something to worry about.
Neville gave Professor Lupin a look of pure terror, and Seamus Finnigan
eyed the now rattling doorknob apprehensively.


 said Professor Lupin. 
ve even met one
that had lodged itself in a grandfather clock. This one moved in
yesterday afternoon, and I asked the headmaster if the staff would leave
it to give my third years some practice.

"So, the first question we must ask ourselves is, what is a boggart?"

Hermione put up her hand.

"It
 she said. 



t have put it better myself," said Professor Lupin, and Hermione
glowed. "So the boggart sitting in the darkness within has not yet
assumed a form. He does not yet know what will frighten the person on
the other side of the door. Nobody knows what a boggart looks like when
he is alone, but when I let him out, he will immediately become whatever
each of us most fears.

"This means," said Professor Lupin, choosing to ignore Neville
mall
sputter of terror, "that we have a huge advantage over the boggart
before we begin. Have you spotted it, Harry?"

Trying to answer a question with Hermione next to him, bobbing up and
down on the balls of her feet with her hand in the air, was very
off-putting, but Harry had a go.

"Er -- because there are so many of us, it won



 said Professor Lupin, and Hermione put her hand down,
looking a little disappointed. 
s always best to have com pany when
you
The charm that repels a boggart is simple, yet it requires force of
mind. You see, the thing that really finishes a boggart is laughter.
What you need to do is force it to assume a shape that you find amusing.





 said the class together.


 said Professor Lupin. 
m afraid. You see, the word alone is not enough. And this is where you
come in, Neville."

The wardrobe shook again, though not as much as Neville, who walked
forward as though he were heading for the gallows.

"Right, Neville," said Professor Lupin. "First things first: what would
you say is the thing that frightens you most in the world?"

Neville
didn't catch that, Neville, sorry,
Professor Snape.
Professor Snape... hmmm... Neville, I believe you live with your
grandmother?
Er -- yes,
But -- I don't want the boggart to
turn into her either.
No, no, you misunderstand me,
I
wonder, could you tell us what sort of clothes your grandmother usually
wears?
Well... always the same hat. A tall
one with a stuffed vulture on top. And a long dress... green,
normally... and sometimes a fox-fur scarf.
And a handbag?
A big red one,
Right then,
Can you picture those clothes very
clearly, Neville? Can you see them in your mind's eye?
Yes,
When the boggart bursts out of this wardrobe, Neville, and sees You, it
will assume the form of Professor Snape,
And You will
raise your wand -- thus -- and cry 'Riddikulus' -- and concentrate hard
on your grandmother's clothes. If all goes well, Professor Boggart Snape
will be forced into that vulture-topped hat, and that green dress, with
that big red handbag.
If Neville is successful, the boggart is likely to shift his attention
to each of us in turn,
I would like all of you
to take a moment now to think of the thing that scares you most, and
imagine how you might force it to look comical....
What scared him most in the
world?

His first thought was Lord Voldemort -- a Voldemort returned to full
strength. But before he had even started to plan a possible
counterattack on a boggart-Voldemort, a horrible image came floating to
the surface of his mind....

A rotting, glistening hand, slithering back beneath a black cloak ... a
long, rattling breath from an unseen mouth... then a cold so penetrating
it felt like drowning....

Harry shivered, then looked around, hoping no one had noticed. Many
people had their eyes shut tight. Ron was muttering to himself, "Take
its legs off " Harry was sure he knew what that was about. Ron
Everyone ready?
t ready. How could you make a
dementor less frightening? But he didn
Neville, we're going to back away,
Let you have
a clear field, all right? I'll call the next person forward.... Everyone
back, now, so Neville can get a clear shot --
On the count of three, Neville,
One two -- three
-- now!
s wand and hit the
doorknob. The wardrobe burst open. Hook-nosed and menacing, Professor
Snape stepped out, his eyes flashing at Neville.

Neville backed away, his wand up, mouthing wordlessly. Snape was bearing
down upon him, reaching inside his robes.

"R -- r -- riddikulus! "squeaked Neville.

There was a noise like a whip crack. Snape stumbled; he was wearing a
long, lace-trimmed dress and a towering hat topped with a moth-eaten
vulture, and he was swinging a huge crimson handbag.

There was a roar of laughter; the boggart paused, confused, and
Professor Lupin shouted, "Parvati! Forward!"

Parvati walked forward, her face set. Snape rounded on her. There was
another crack, and where he had stood was a bloodstained, bandaged
mummy; its sightless face was turned to Parvati and it began to walk
toward her very slowly, dragging its feet, its stiff arms rising --

"Riddikulus!" cried Parvati.

A bandage unraveled at the mummy
Seamus!
s head stand on end -- 
 shouted
Seamus.

The banshee made a rasping noise and clutched her throat; her voice was
gone.

Crack! The banshee turned into a rat, which chased its tail in a circle,
then -- crack!- became a rattlesnake, which slithered and writhed before
-- crack! -- becoming a single, bloody eyeball.

'It's confused!
We're getting there! Dean!
Riddikulus!
There was a snap, and the hand was trapped in a mousetrap.

"Excellent! Ron, you next!"

Ron leapt forward.

Crack!

Quite a few people screamed. A giant spider, six feet tall and covered
in hair, was advancing on Ron, clicking its pincers menacingly. For a
moment, Harry thought Ron had frozen. Then --

"Riddikulus!" bellowed Ron, and the spider
s feet. He raised his wand, ready, but --

"Here!" shouted Professor Lupin suddenly, hurrying forward. Crack!

The legless spider had vanished. For a second, everyone looked wildly
around to see where it was. Then they saw a silvery-white orb hanging in
the air in front of Lupin, who said, "Riddikulus!" almosi lazily.

Crack!

"Forward, Neville, and finish him off!" said Lupin as the boggart landed
on the floor as a cockroach. Crack! Snape was back. This time Neville
charged forward looking determined.

"Riddikulus!" he shouted, and they had a split second
Ha!
Excellent!
Excellent) Neville. Well done, everyone.... Let me See... five points
to Gryffindor for every person to tackle the boggart -- ten for Neville
because he did it twice... and five each to Hermione and Harry.
But I didn't do anything,
You and Hermione answered my questions correctly at the start of the
class, Harry,
Very well, everyone, an excellent
lesson. Homework, kindly read the chapter on boggarts and summarize it
for me... to be handed in on Monday. That will be all.
t
feeling cheerful. Professor Lupin had deliberately stopped him from
tackling the boggart. Why? Was it because he
t up to much? Had he thought Harry would
pass out again?

But no one else seemed to have noticed anything.

"Did you see me take that banshee?" shouted Seamus. "And the hand!" said
Dean, waving his own around.

"And Snape in that hat!" "And my mummy!"

I wonder why Professor Lupin
 said
Lavender thoughtfully.


ve ever had,
wasn
 said Ron excitedly as they made their way back to the
classroom to get their bags.


 said Hermione approvingly. 



 said Ron, sniggering. 


CHAPTER EIGHT

FLIGHT OF THE FAT FADY

In no time at all, Defense Against the Dark Arts had become most
people's favorite class. Only Draco Malfoy and his gang of Slytherins
had anything bad to say about Professor Lupin.


 Malfoy would say in a loud whisper as
Professor Lupin passed. 


But no one else cared that Professor Lupin's robes were patched and
frayed. His next few lessons were just as interesting as the first.
After boggarts, they studied Red Caps, nasty little goblin like
creatures that lurked wherever there had been bloodshed: in the dungeons
of castles and the potholes of deserted battlefields, waiting to
bludgeon those who had gotten lost. From Red Caps they moved on to
kappas, creepy. water-dwellers that looked like scaly monkeys, with
webbed hands itching to strangle unwitting waders in their ponds.

Harry only wished he was as happy with some of his other classes. Worst
of all was Potions. Snape was in a particularly vindictive mood these
days, and no one was in any doubt why. The story of the boggart assuming
Snape's shape, and the way that Neville had dressed it in his
grandmother's clothes, had traveled through the school like wildfire.
Snape didn't seem to find it funny. His eyes flashed menacingly at the
very mention of Professor Lupin's name, and he was bullying Neville
worse than ever.

Harry was also growing to dread the hours he spent in Professor
Trelawney's stifling tower room, deciphering lopsided shapes and
symbols, trying to ignore the way Professor Trelawney's enormous eyes
filled with tears every time she looked at him. He couldn't like
Professer Trelawney, even though she was treated with respect bordering
on reverence by many of the class. Parvati Patil and Lavender Brown had
taken to haunting Professor Trelawney's tower room at lunch times, and
always returned with annoyingly superior looks on their faces, as though
they knew things the others didn't. They had also started using hushed
voices whenever they spoke to Harry, as though he were on his deathbed.

Nobody really liked Care of Magical Creatures, which, after the
action-packed first class, had become extremely dull. Hagrid seemed to
have lost his confidence. They were now spending lesson after lesson
learning how to look after flobberworms, which had to be some of the
most boring creatures in existence.


 said Ron, after yet
another hour of poking shredded lettuce down the flobberworms' throats.

At the start of October, however, Harry had something else to occupy
him, something so enjoyable it more than made up for his unsatisfactory
classes. The Quidditch season was approaching, and O1iver Wood, Captain
of the Gryffindor team, called a meeting on Thursday evening to discuss
tactics for the new season.

There were seven people on a Quidditch team: three Chasers, whose job it
was to score goals by putting the Quaffle (a red, soccer-sized ball)
through one of the fifty-foot-high hoops at each

end of the field; two Beaters, who were equipped with heavy bats to
repel the Bludgers (two heavy black balls that zoomed around trying to
attack the players); a Keeper, who defended the goal

posts, and the Seeker, who had the hardest job of all, that of catching
the Golden Snitch, a tiny, winged, walnut-sized ball, whose capture
ended the game and earned the Seeker's team an extra one hundred and
fifty points.

Oliver Wood was a burly seventeen-year-old, now in his seventh and final
year at Hogwarts. There was a quiet sort of desperation in his voice a's
he addressed his six fellow team members in the chilly locker rooms on
the edge of the darkening Quidditch field.



he told them, striding up and down in front of them. 
ll be leaving at
the end of this year. I



t won for seven years now. Okay, so we
But we also know we've got the
best-ruddy-team-in-the-school,
We've got three superb
Chasers.
We've got two unbeatable Beaters.
Stop it, Oliver, you're embarrassing us,
And we've got a Seeker who has never failed to win us a match!
And me,
We think you're very good too, Oliver,
Spanking good Keeper,
The point is,
the Quidditch Cup
should have had our name on it these last two years. Ever since Harry
joined the team, I've thought the thing was in the bag. But we haven't
got it, and this year's the last chance we'll get to finally see our
name on the thing....
Oliver, this year's our year,
We'll do it, Oliver!
Definitely,
s
wonderful vision of finally winning the huge, silver Quidditch Cup.

Harry returned to the Gryffindor common room one evening after training,
cold and stiff but pleased with the way practice had gone, to find the
room buzzing excitedly.

"What
, he asked Ron and Hermione, who were sitting in two
of the best chairs by the fireside and completing some star charts for
Astronomy.


 said Ron, pointing at a notice that had
appeared on the battered old bulletin board. 



 said Fred, who had followed Harry through the portrait
hole. 
s. I


Harry threw himself into a chair beside Ron, his high spirits ebbing
away. Hermione seemed to read his mind.


m sure you
 she said. 
re
bound to catch Black soon. He



s not fool enough to try anything in Hogsmeade," said Ron. "Ask
McGonagall if you can go this time, Harry. The next one might not be for
ages --"

"Ron!" said Hermione. "Harry



t be the only third year left behind," said Ron. "Ask
McGonagall, go on, Harry --"

"Yeah, I think I will," said Harry, making up his mind.

Hermione opened her mouth to argue, but at that moment Crookshanks leapt
lightly onto her lap. A large, dead spider was dangling from his mouth.

"Does he have to eat that in front of us?" said Ron, scowling.

"Clever Crookshanks, did you catch that all by yourself?" said Hermione.

Crookshanks; slowly chewed up the spider, his yellow eyes fixed
insolently on Ron.

"Just keep him over there, that
 said Ron irritably, turning back
to his star chart. 
ve got Scabbers asleep in my bag."

Harry yawned. He really wanted to go to bed, but he still had his own
star chart to complete. He pulled his bag toward him, took out
parchment, ink, and quill, and started work.

"You can copy mine, if you like," said Ron, labeling his last star with
a flourish and shoving the chart toward Harry.

Hermione, who disapproved of copying, pursed her lips but didn
OY!
GET OFF, YOU STUPID
ANIMAL!
Ron, don't hurt him!
CATCH THAT CAR' Ron yelled as Crookshanks freed himself from the
remnants of the bag, sprang over the table, and chased after the
terrified Scabbers.

George Weasley made a lunge for Crookshanks but missed; Scabbers
streaked through twenty pairs of legs and shot beneath an old chest of
drawers. Crookshanks skidded to a halt, crouched low on his bandy legs,
and started making furious swipes beneath it with his front paw.

Ron and Hermione hurried over; Hermione grabbed Crookshanks around the
middle and heaved him away; Ron threw himself onto his stomach and, with
great difficulty, pulled Scabbers out by the tail.


 he said furiously to Hermione, dangling Scabbers in front
of her. 
s skin and bone! You keep that cat away from him!"

"Crookshanks doesn
s wrong!" said Hermione, her voice
shaking. "All cats chase rats, Ron!"

"There
 said Ron, who was trying to
persuade a frantically wiggling Scabbers back into his pocket. 



 said Hermione impatiently. 
you think --"

"That cat
 said Ron, 'ignoring the people
around him, who were starting to giggle. 
s ill!"

Ron marched through the common room and out of sight up the stairs to
the boys
How's Scabbers?
He's hiding at the bottom of my bed, shaking, 
Careful, Weasley, careful!
What's the matter, Lavender?
She got a letter from home this morning,
It's her
rabbit, Binky. He's been killed by a fox.
Oh,
I'm sorry, Lavender.
I should have known!
You know what day it
is?
Er --
The sixteenth of October! 'That thing you're dreading, it will happen
on the sixteenth of October!' Remember? She was right, she was right!
You -- you were dreading
Binky being killed by a fox?
Well, not necessarily by a fox,
but I was obviously dreading him dying, wasn't l?
Oh,
Was Binky an old rabbit?
N -- no!
H -- he was only a baby!
s shoulders.

"But then, why would you dread him dying?" said Hermione.

Parvati glared at her.

"Well, look at it logically," said Hermione, turning to the rest of the
group- "I mean, Binky didn
 Lavender wailed loudly. 
t have been
dreading it, because it



t mind Hermione, Lavender," said Ron loudly, "she doesn
s pets matter very much."

Professor McGonagall opened the classroom door at that moment, which was
perhaps lucky; Hermione and Ron were looking daggers at each other, and
when they got into class, they seated themselves on either side of Harry
and didn
t decided what he was going to say to Professor
McGonagall when the bell rang at the end of the lesson, but it was she
who brought up the subject of Hogsmeade first.

"One moment, please !" she called as the class made to leave. "As you
t forget!"

Neville put up his hand.

"Please, Professor, I -- I think I
Your grandmother sent yours to me directly, Longbottom,
She seemed to think it was safer. Well, that's all, you may
leave.
Ask her now,
Oh. but --
Go for it, Harry,
s desk.

"Yes, Potter?" Harry took a deep breath.

"Professor, my aunt and uncle -- er -- forgot to sign my form," he said.

Professor McGonagall looked over her square spectacles at him but didn
So -- er d'you think it would be all right mean, will It be okay if I
-- if I go to Hogsmeade?
I'm afraid not, Potter,
You heard what I said. No form, no
visiting the village. That's the rule.
But -- Professor, my aunt and uncle -- you know, they're Muggles, they
don't really understand about -- about Hogwarts forms and stuff,
If you said I could go
--
But I don't say so,
The form clearly states that the
parent or guardian must give permission.
I'm sorry, Potter, but
that's my final word. You had better hurry, or you'll be late for your
next lesson.
all-for-the-best
There's always the feast,
You know, the Halloween feast, in the evening.
Yeah,
great.
s
signature on the form, but as Harry had already told Professor
McGonagall he hadn
They make a fuss about Hogsmeade, but I assure you, Harry, it's not all
it's cracked up to be,
All right, the sweetshop's
rather good, and Zonko's Joke Shop's frankly dangerous, and yes, the
Shrieking Shack's always worth a visit, but really, Harry, apart from
that, you're not missing anything.
We'll bring you. lots of sweets back from Honeydukes,
Yeah, loads,
s difficulties.

"Don
 said Harry, in what he hoped was at, offhand
voice, 
ll see you at the feast. Have a good time."

He accompanied them to the entrance hall, where Filch, the caretaker,
was standing inside the front doors, checking off names against a long
list, peering suspiciously into every face, and making sure that no one
was sneaking out who shouldn
Staying here, Potter?
Scared of passing the dementors?
Password?
Fortuna Major,
Harry! Harry! Hi, Harry!
Aren't you going to Hogsmeade, Harry? Why not? Hey
you can come and sit with us, if you
like, Harry!
Er -- no, thanks, Colin,
t in the mood to have a
lot of people staring avidly at the scar on his forehead. "I -- I


After that, he had no choice but to turn right around and head back out
of the portrait hole again.


 the Fat Lady called grumpily after
him as he walked away.

Harry wandered dispiritedly toward the library, but halfway there he
changed his mind; he didn't feel like working. He turned around and came
face-to-face with Filch, who had obviously just seen off the last of the
Hogsmeade visitors.


 Filch snarled suspiciously.


 said Harry truthfully.


 spat Filch, his jowls quivering unpleasantly. 
t you in Hogsmeade buying
Stink Pellets and Belch Powder and Whizzing Worms like the rest of your
nasty little friends?"

Harry shrugged.

"Well, get back to your common room where you belong!" snapped Filch,
and he stood glaring until Harry had passed out of sight.

But Harry didn
Harry?
What are you doing?
Where are Ron and Hermione?
Hogsmeade,
Ah,
Why don't you come
in? I've just taken delivery of a grindylow for our next lesson.
A
what?
Water demon,
We
shouldn't have much difficulty with him, not after the kappas. The trick
is to break his grip. You notice the abnormally long fingers? Strong,
but very brittle.
Cup of tea?
I was just
thinking of making one.
All right,
Sit down,
I've only got
teabags, I'm afraid -- but I daresay you've had enough of tea leaves?
s eyes were twinkling.

"How did you know about that?" Harry asked.

"Professor McGonagall told me," said Lupin, passing Harry a chipped mug
of tea. "You



 said Harry.

He thought for a moment of telling Lupin about the dog he'd seen in
Magnolia Crescent but decided not to. He didn't want Lupin to think he
was a coward, especially since Lupin alreadv seemed to think he couldn't
cope with a boggart.

Something of Harry's thoughts seemed to have shown on his face, because
Lupin said, 



 Harry lied. He drank a bit of tea and watched the grindylow
brandishing a fist at him. 
 he said suddenly, putting his tea down
on Lupin's desk. 



 said Lupin slowly.


t you let me fight it?" said Harry abruptly.

Lupin raised his eyebrows.

"I would have thought that was obvious, Harry," he said, sounding
surprised.

Harry, who had expected Lupin to deny that he
Why?
Well,
I assumed that if the boggart
faced you, it would assume the shape of Lord Voldemort.
d expected, but Lupin
had said Voldemort
Clearly, I was wrong,
But I
didn't think it a good idea for Lord Voldemort to materialize in the
staffroom. I imagined that people would panic.
I didn't think of Voldemort,
I -- I remembered
those dementors.
I see,
Well, well... I'm impressed.
s face. "That suggests
that what you fear most of all is -- fear. Very wise, Harry."

Harry didn
So you've been thinking that I didn't believe you capable of fighting
the boggart?
Well... yeah,
Professor Lupin, you know the dementors --
Come in,
Ah, Severus,
Thanks very much. Could you leave
it here on the desk for me?
I was just showing Harry my grindylow,
Fascinating,
You should drink that
directly, Lupin.
Yes, Yes, I will,
I made an entire cauldronful,
If you need more.





 said Snape, but there was a look in his eye Harry didn't
like. He backed out of the room, unsmiling and watchful.

Harry looked curiously at the goblet. Lupin smiled.


 he said. 
 He picked up the goblet and sniffed it. 
 he added, taking a sip and shuddering.


 Harry began. Lupin looked at him and answered the unfinished
question.


ve been feeling a bit off-color," he said. "This potion is the only
thing that helps. I am very lucky to be working alongside Professor
Snape; there aren


Professor Lupin took another sip and Harry had a crazy urge to knock the
goblet out of his hands.


s very interested in the Dark Arts, he blurted out.

"Really?" said Lupin, looking only mildly interested as he took another
gulp of potion.

"Some people reckon --" Harry hesitated, then plunged recklessly on,
"some people reckon he


Lupin drained the goblet and pulled a face.


 he said. 
d better get back to work. see
you at the feast later."

"Right," said Harry, putting down his empty teacup.

The empty goblet was still smoking.

"There you go," said Ron. "We got as much as we could carry."

A shower of brilliantly colored sweets fell into Harry
d had the time
of their lives.

"Thanks," said Harry, picking up a packet of tiny black Pepper Imps.
"What


By the sound of it -- everywhere. Dervish and Banges, the wizarding
equipment shop, Zonko's Joke Shop, into the Three Broomsticks for
foaming mugs of hot butterbeer, and many places besides.





s a bit, look --"

"We think we saw an ogre, honestly, they get all sorts at the Three
Broomsticks --"

"Wish we could have brought you some butterbeer, really warms you up --"

"What did you do?" said Hermione, looking anxious. "Did you get any work
done?"

"No," said Harry. "Lupin made me a cup of tea in his office. And then
Snape came in...."

He told them all about the goblet. Ron
Lupin drank it?
Is he mad?
We'd better go down, you know, the feast'll be starting in fiveminutes
They hurried through the portrait hole and into the crowd, still
discussing Snape.


 -- Hermione dropped her voice, glancing
nervously around -- 
t
have done it in front of Harry."

"Yeah, maybe," said Harry as they reached the entrance hall and crossed
into the Great Hall. It had been decorated with hundreds and hundreds of
candle-filled pumpkins, a cloud of fluttering live bats, and many
flaming orange streamers, which were swimming lazily across the stormy
ceiling like brilliant watersnakes.

The food was delicious; even Hermione and Ron, who were full to bursting
with Honeydukes sweets, managed second helpings of everything. Harry
kept glancing at the staff table. Professor Lupin

looked cheerful and as well as he ever did; he was talking animatedly to
tiny little Professor Flitwick, the Charms teacher. Harry moved his eyes
along the table, to the place where Snape sat. Was he imagining it, or
were Snape
s good mood couldn
The dementors send their love, Potter!
Why isn't anyone going in?
Let me through, please,
s voice, and he came bustling
importantly through the crowd. "What
t all
have forgotten the password -- excuse me, I


And then a silence fell over the crowd, from the front first, so that a
chill seemed to spread down the corridor. They heard Percy say, in a
suddenly sharp voice, 


People's heads turned; those at the back were standing on tiptoe.


s going on?" said Ginny, who had just arrived.

A moment later, Professor Dumbledore was there, sweeping toward the
portrait; the Gryffindors squeezed together to let him through, and
Harry, Ron, and Hermione moved closer to see what the trouble was.

"Oh, my --" Hermione grabbed Harry
We need to find her,
Professor McGonagall, please go
to Mr. Filch at once and tell him to search every painting in the castle
for the Fat Lady.
You'll be lucky!
What do you mean, Peeves?
s grin
faded a little. He didn
Ashamed, Your Headship,
sit. Doesn't want to be seen. She's a horrible mess. Saw her running
through the landscape up on the fourth floor, sir, dodging between the
trees. Crying something dreadful,
Poor thing,
Did she say who did it?
Oh yes, Professorhead,
He got very angry when she wouldn't let
him in, you see.
Nasty temper he's got, that Sirius Black.
The teachers and I need to conduct a thorough search of the castle,
I'm afraid that, for your own safety,
you will have to spend the night here. I want the prefects to stand
guard over the entrances to the hall and I am leaving the Head Boy and
Girl in charge. Any disturbance should be reported to me immediately,
Send
word with one of the ghosts.
Oh,
yes, you'll be needing...
Sleep well,
Everyone into their sleeping bags!
Come on, now, no
more talking! Lights out in ten minutes!
C'mon,
Do you think Black's still in the castle?
Dumbledore obviously thinks he might be,
It's very lucky he picked tonight, you know,
The one night we weren't in the tower....
s lost track of time, being on the run," said Ron. "Didn
d have come bursting in here."

Hermione shuddered.

All around them, people were asking one another the same question: "How
did he get in?"

"Maybe he knows how to Apparate," said a Ravenclaw a few feet away,
"Just appear out of thin air, you know."

"Disguised himself, probably," said a Hufflepuff fifth year. "He
could
 suggested Dean Thomas.


s ever bothered to read Hogwarts, A
History?" said Hermione crossly to Harry and Ron.

"Probably," said Ron. "Why?"

"Because the castle
There are all sorts of enchantments on it, to stop people
entering by stealth. You can't just Apparate in here. And I'd like to
see the disguise that could fool those dementors. They're guarding every
single entrance to the grounds. They'd have seen him fly in too. And
Fitch knows all the secret passages, they'll have them covered....
The lights are going out now!
I want everyone in their
sleeping bags and no more talking!
s footsteps drew nearer.

"Any sign of him, Professor?" asked Percy in a whisper.

"No. All well here?"

"Everything under control, sir."

"Good. There
ve found a temporary
guardian for the Gryffindor portrait hole. You






s
still very distressed, but once she
ll have Mr. Filch
restore her."

Harry heard the door of the hall creak open again, and more footsteps.

"Headmaster?" It was Snape. Harry kept quite still, listening hard. "The
whole of the third floor has been searched. He



s room? The
Owlery?"

"All searched."

"Very well, Severus. I didn



 asked Snape.

Harry raised his head very slightly off his arms to free his other ear,




Harry opened his eyes a fraction and squinted up to where they stood;
Dumbledore's back was to him, but he could see Percy's face, rapt with
attention, and Snape's profile, which looked angry.


 said Snape, who was barely opening his lips, as
though trying to block Percy out of the conversation.


 said Dumbledore, and there was something like warning
in his voice.





 said Dumbledore, and his tone made it so clear that the
subject was closed that Snape didn't reply. 
 said Dumbledore. I said I would inform them when our search
was complete.
Didn't they want to help, sit?
Oh yes,
But I'm afraid no dementor will cross
the threshold of this castle while I am headmaster.
\What was all that about?
d listen that Black could turn into a flowering
shrub.

The Fat Lady
He's a complete lunatic,
Can't
we get anyone else?
None of the other pictures wanted the job,
Frightened of
what happened to the Fat Lady. Sir Cadogan was the only one brave enough
to volunteer.
s worries. He was now being
closely watched. Teachers found excuses to walk along corridors with
him, and Percy Weasley (acting, Harry suspected, on his mother
There's no point hiding it from you any longer, Potter,
I know this will come as a shock to you, but Sirius
Black --
I know he's after me,
I heard Ron's dad telling
his mum. Mr. Weasley works for the Ministry of Magic.
I see! Well, in that case, Potter, you'll
understand why I don't think it's a good idea for you to be practicing
Quidditch in the evenings. Out on the field with only Your team members,
it's very exposed, Potter --
We've got our first match on Saturday!
I've got
to train, Professor!
s prospects; it had been she, after
all, who
Hmm...
Well... goodness
knows, I'd like to see us win the Cup at last... but all the same,
Potter... I'd be happier if a teacher were present. I'll ask Madam Hooch
to oversee your training sessions.
s match, Oliver Wood gave his team some unwelcome news.

"We
 he told them, looking very angry.

s just been to see me. We



 chorused the rest of the team.


s excuse is that their Seeker
s still injured," said Wood,
grinding his teeth furiously. "But it
re doing it.
Don
ll damage their
chances...."

There had been strong winds and heavy rain all day, and as Wood spoke,
they heard a distant rumble of thunder.

"There
s arm!" said Harry furiously. "He



t prove it," said Wood bitterly, "And we
re playing Slytherin, and
instead it
s quite different. They


Angelina, Alicia, and Katie suddenly giggled.


 said Wood, frowning at this lighthearted behavior.


s that tall, good-looking one, isn
 said Angelina.


 said Katie, and they started to giggle again.


s only silent because he

said Fred impatiently. 
t know why you



 Wood shouted, his
eyes bulging slightly. 
s put a very strong side together! He
d take it like this! We mustn



 said Fred, looking slightly alarmed. 
re taking
Hufflepuff very seriously. Seriously."

The day before the match, the winds reached howling point and the rain
fell harder than ever. It was so dark inside the corridors and
classrooms that extra torches and lanterns were lit. The Slytherin team
was looking very smug indeed, and none more so than Malfoy.

"Ah, if only my arm was feeling a bit better!" he sighed as the gale
outside pounded the windows.

Harry had no room in his head to worry about anything except the match
tomorrow. Oliver Wood kept hurrying up to him between classes and giving
him tips. The third time this happened, Wood talked for so long that
Harry suddenly realized he was ten minutes late for Defense Against the
Dark Arts, and set off at a run with Wood shouting after him, "Diggory


Harry skidded to a halt outside the Defense Against the Dark Arts
classroom, pulled the door open, and dashed inside.


m late, Professor Lupin. I --"

But it wasn
s
desk; it was Snape.

"This lesson began ten minutes ago, Potter, so I think we


But Harry didn't move.


s Professor Lupin?" he said.

"He says he is feeling too ill to teach today," said Snape with a
twisted smile. "I believe I told you to sit down?"

But Harry stayed where he was.

"What


Snape's black eyes glittered.


 he said, looking as though he wished it
were. 


Harry walked slowly to his seat and sat down. Snape looked around at the
class.





ve done boggarts, Red Caps, kappas, and grindylows,"
said Hermione quickly, "and we



 said Snape coldly. 
s lack of organization."

"He
ve ever had,"
said Dean Thomas boldly, and there was a murmur of agreement from the
rest of the class. Snape looked more menacing than ever.

"You are easily satisfied. Lupin is hardly overtaxing you -- I ,Would
expect first years to be able to deal with Red Caps and grindylows.
Today we shall discuss --"

Harry watched him flick through the textbook, to the very back chapter,
which he must know they hadn
Werewolves,
But, sir,
we're
not supposed to do werewolves yet, we're due to start hinkypunks --
Miss Granger,
I was under the
impression that I am teaching this lesson, not you. And I am telling you
all to turn to page 394.
All of you! Now!"

With many bitter sidelong looks and some sullen muttering, the class
opened their books.

"Which of you can tell me how we distinguish between the werewolf and
the true wolf?" said Snape.

Everyone sat in motionless silence; everyone except Hermione, whose
hand, as it so often did, had shot straight into the air.

"Anyone?" Snape said, ignoring Hermione. His twisted smile was back.
"Are you telling me that Professor Lupin hasn



 said Parvati suddenly, 
t got as far as
werewolves yet, we



 snarled Snape. 
d meet a
third-year class who wouldn



 said Hermione, whose hand was still in the air, 




said Snape coolly. 


Hermione went very red, put down her hand, and stared at the floor with
her eyes full of tears. It was a mark of how much the class loathed
Snape that they were all glaring at him, because every one of them had
called Hermione a know-it-all at least once, and Ron, who told Hermione
she was a know-it-all at least twice a week, said loudly, 
t want to be
told?"

The class knew instantly he
Detention, Weasley,
s.
"And if I ever hear you criticize the way I teach a class again, you
will be very sorry indeed."

No one made a sound throughout the rest of the lesson. They sat and made
notes on werewolves from the textbook, while Snape prowled up and down
the rows of desks, examining the work they had been doing with Professor
Lupin.

"Very poorly explained... That is incorrect, the kappa is more commonly
found in Mongolia.... Professor Lupin gave this eight out of ten? I
wouldn


When the bell rang at last, Snape held them back.




Harry and Hermione left the room with the rest of the class, who waited
until they were well out of earshot, then burst into a furious tirade
about Snape.


s never been like this with any of our other Defense Against the
Dark Arts teachers, even if he did want the job," Harry said to
Hermione. "Why
you think this is all because
of the boggart?"

"I don
 said Hermione pensively. 


Ron caught up with them five minutes later, in a towering rage.


you know what that --" (he called Snape something that made Hermione
say "Ron!") "-- is making me do? I
 He was breathing deeply, his fists
clenched. 
t Black have hidden in Snape


Harry woke extremely early the next morning; so early that it was till
dark. For a moment he thought the roaring of the wind had woken him.
Then he felt a cold breeze on the back of his neck and sat bolt upright
-- Peeves the Poltergeist had been floating next to him, blowing hard in
his ear.


 said Harry furiously. Peeves puffed out his
cheeks, blew hard, and zoomed backward out of the room, cackling.

Harry fumbled for his alarm clock and looked at it. It was half past
four. Cursing Peeves, he rolled over and tried to get back to sleep, but
it was very difficult, now that he was awake, to ignore the sounds of
the thunder rumbling overhead, the pounding of the wind against the
castle walls, and the distant creaking of the trees in the Forbidden
Forest. In a few hours he would be out on the Quidditch field, battling
through that gale. Finally, he gave up any thought of more sleep, got
up, dressed, picked up his Nimbus Two Thousand, and walked quietly out
of the dormitory.

As Harry opened the door, something brushed against his leg. He bent
down just in time to grab Crookshanks by the end of his bushy tail and
drag him outside.


 Harry told Crookshanks
suspiciously. 
 he added, nudging Crookshanks down the spiral
staircase with his foot. 


The noise of the storm was even louder in the common roorn. Harry knew
better than to think the match would be canceled; Quidditch matches
weren't called off for trifles like thunderstorms. Nevertheless, he was
starting to feel very apprehensive. Wood had pointed out Cedric Diggory
to him in the corridor; Diggory was a fifth year and a lot bigger than
Harry. Seekers were usually light

and speedy, but Diggory's weight would be an advantage in this weather
because he was less likely to be blown off course.

Harry whiled away the hours until dawn in front of the fire, getting up
every now and then to stop Crookshanks from sneaking up

the boys, staircase again. At long last Harry thought it must be time
for breakfast, so he headed through the portrait hole alone.


 yelled Sir Cadogan.


 Harry yawned.

He revived a bit over a large bowl of porridge, and by the time he'd
started on toast, the rest of the team had turned up.


s going to be a tough one," said Wood, who wasn
Stop worrying, Oliver,
we don't mind a bit of
rain.
s usual
pre-match pep talk, but it didn
t hear it over
the fresh rolls of thunder. Rain was splattering over Harry
s mouth form the words,
"Mount Your brooms.,, He pulled his right foot out of the mud with a
squelch and swung it over his Nimbus Two Thousand. Madam Hooch put her
whistle to her lips and gave it a blast that sounded shrill and distant
they were off

Harry rose fast, but his Nimbus was swerving slightly with the wind. He
held it as steady as he could and turned, squinting into the rain.

Within five minutes Harry was soaked to his skin and frozen, hardly able
to see his teammates, let alone the tiny Snitch. He flew backward and
forward across the field past blurred red and yellow shapes, with no
idea of what was happening in the rest of the game. He couldn
t seen them coming.

He lost track of time. It was getting harder and harder to hold his
broom straight. The sky was getting darker, as though night had decided
to come early. Twice Harry nearly hit another player, without knowing
whether it was a teammate or opponent; everyone was now so wet, and the
rain so thick, he could hardly tell them apart....

With the first flash of lightning came the sound of Madam Hooch
I called for time-out!
Come on, under here
--
What's the score?
We're fifty points up,
but unless we get the Snitch soon,
we'll be playing into the night.
I've got no chance with these on,
I've had an idea, Harry! Give me your glasses, quick!
Impervius!
There!
They'll repel water!
Brilliant!
Okay, team, let's go for it!
s spell had done the trick. Harry was still numb with cold,
still wetter than he
s numb hands slipped on the broom handle and his Nimbus dropped a
few feet. Shaking his sodden bangs out of his eyes, he squinted back
into the stands. The dog had vanished.

"Harry!" came Wood
Harry, behind you!
Come on!
Taster!"

But something odd was happening. An eerie silence was falling across the
stadium. The wind, though as strong as ever, was forgetting to roar. It
was as though someone had turned off the sound, as though Harry had gone
suddenly deaf -- what was going on?

And then a horribly familiar wave of cold swept over him, inside him,
just as he became aware of something moving on the field below...

Before he
Not Harry, not Harry, please not Harry!
Stand aside, you silly girl... stand aside, now....
Not Harry, please no, take me, kill me instead --
s brain.... What was he
doing? Why was he flying? He needed to help her... She was going to
die.... She was going to be murdered....

He was falling, falling through the icy mist.

"Not Harry! Please... have mercy... have mercy....

A shrill voice was laughing, the woman was screaming, and Harry knew no
more.

"Lucky the ground was so soft."

"I thought he was dead for sure."

"But he didn


Harry could hear the voices whispering, but they made no sense
whatsoever. He didn't have a clue where he was, or how he'd got there,
or what he'd been doing before he got there. All he knew was that every
inch of him was aching as though it had been beaten.


ve ever seen in my life."

Scariest... the scariest thing... hooded black figures... cold ...
screaming...

Harry
d just climbed out of a swimming pool.

"Harry!" said Fred, who looked extremely white underneath, the mud.
"How


It was as though Harry's memory was on fast forward. The lightning --
the Grim -- the Snitch -- and the dementors...


 he said, sitting up so suddenly they all gasped.


 said Fred. 
ve been -- what -- fifty feet?"

"We thought you
 said Alicia, who was shaking.

Hermione made a small, squeaky noise. Her eyes were extremely bloodshot.


 said Harry. 


No one said anything. The horrible truth sank into Harry like a stone.


t -- lose?"

"Diggory got the Snitch," said George. "Just after you fell. He didn



 said Harry, suddenly realizing he wasn't there.


 said Fred. 
s trying to drown
himself."

Harry put his face to his knees, his hands gripping his hair. Fred
grabbed his shoulder and shook it roughly.

"C
ve never missed the Snitch before."

"There had to be one time you didn
 said George.


s not over yet," said Fred. "We lost by a hundred points"

"Right? So if Hufflepuff loses to Ravenclaw and we beat Ravenclaw and
Slytherin --."

"Hufflepuff
 said
George.










Harry lay there, not saying a word. They had lost... for the first time
ever, he had lost a Quidditch match.

After ten minutes or so, Madam Pomfrey came over to tell the team to
leave him in peace.


ll come and see you later," Fred told him. "Don
re still the best Seeker we


The team trooped out, trailing mud behind them. Madam Pomfrey shut the
door behind them, looking disapproving. Ron and Hermione moved nearer to
Harry's bed.


 Hermione said in a quaking voice. 
ve
never seen him like that before. He ran onto the field as You fell,
waved his wand, and you sort of slowed down before you hit the ground.
Then he whirled his wand at the dementors. Shot silver stuff at them.
They left the stadium right away... He was furious they



 said Ron. 


His voice faded, but Harry hardly noticed. He was thinking about what
the dementors had done to him... about the screaming voice. He looked up
and saw Ron and Hermione lookin, at him so anxiously that he quickly
cast around for something matter-of-fact to say.




Ron and Hermione looked quickly at each other.





 said Harry, looking from one to the other.


 said Hermione
hesitantly.







Harry's insides lurched. The Whomping Willow was a very violent tree
that stood alone in the middle of the grounds.


 he said, dreading the answer.


 said Ron. 
t like
being hit."

"Professor Flitwick brought it back just before you came around, said
Hermione in a very small voice.

Slowly, she reached down for a bag at her feet, turned it upside down,
and tipped a dozen bits of splintered wood and twig onto the bed, the
only remains of Harry
S MAP

Madam Pomfrey insisted on keeping Harry in the hospital wing for the
rest of the weekend. He didn
t let
her throw away the shattered remnants of his Nimbus Two Thousand. He
knew he was being stupid, knew that the Nimbus was beyond repair, but
Harry couldn
d lost one of his best
friends.

He had a stream of visitors, all intent on cheering him up. Hagrid sent
him a bunch of earwiggy flowers that looked like yellow cabbages, and
Ginny Weasley, blushing furiously, turned up with a get-well card she
had made herself, which sang shrilly unless Harry kept it shut under his
bowl of fruit. The Gryffindor team visited again on Sunday morning, this
time accompanied by Wood, who told Harry (in a hollow, dead sort of
voice) that he didn
s bedside only at
night- But nothing anyone said or did could make Harry feel any better,
because they knew only half of what was troubling him.

He hadn
s life, her attempts to protect him,
Harry, from Lord Voldemort, and Voldemort
s voice.

It was a relief to return to the noise and bustle of the main school on
Monday, where he was forced to think about other things, eve
s defeat. He had finally taken off his bandages, and
celebrated having the full use of both arms again by doing spirited
imitations of Harry falling off his broom. Malfoy spent much of their
next Potions class doing dementor imitations across the dungeon; Ron
finally cracked and flung a large, slippery crocodile heart at Malfoy,
which hit him in the face and caused Snape to take fifty points from
Gryffindor.

"If Snape
m skiving
off," said Ron as they headed toward Lupin
Check who's in there, Hermione.
It's okay!
s behavior while Lupin had been ill.

"It



t know anything about werewolves two rolls of parchment!"

"Did you tell Professor Snape we haven
 Lupin asked,
frowning slightly.

The babble broke out again.


t listen --"

"-- two rolls of parchment!"

Professor Lupin smiled at the look of indignation on every face.

"Don
ll speak to Professor Snape. You don



 said Hermione, looking very disappointed. 
ve already
finished it!"

They had a very enjoyable lesson. Professor Lupin had brought along a
glass box containing a hinkypunk, a little one-legged creature who
looked as though he were made of wisps of smoke, rather frail and
harmless looking.

"Lures travelers into bogs," said Professor Lupin as they took notes.
"You notice the lantern dangling from his hand? Hops ahead -people
follow the light -- then --"

The hinkypunk made a horrible squelching noise against the glass.

When the bell rang, everyone gathered up their things and headed for the
door, Harry among them, but --

"Wait a moment, Harry," Lupin called. "I


Harry doubled back and watched Professor Lupin covering the hinkypunk's
box with a cloth.


 said Lupin, turning back to his desk and
starting to pile books into his briefcase, 
m sorry about your
broomstick. Is there any chance of fixing it?"

"No," said Harry. "The tree smashed it to bits."

Lupin sighed.

"They planted the Whomping Willow the same year that I arrived at
Hogwarts. People used to play a game, trying to get near enough to touch
the trunk. In the end, a boy called Davey Gudgeon nearly lost an eye,
and we were forbidden to go near it. No broomstick would have a chance."

"Did you hear about the dementors too?" said Harry with difficulty.

Lupin looked at him quickly.

"Yes, I did. I don



 said Harry. He hesitated, and then the question he had to ask
burst from him before he could stop himself.



 said Professor Lupin sharply, as
though he had read Harry's mind. 
t
have."

A ray of wintery sunlight fell across the classroom, illuminating
Lupin
Dementors are among the foulest creatures that walk this earth. They
infest the darkest, filthiest places, they glory in decay and despair,
they drain peace, hope, and happiness out of the air around them. Even
Muggles feel their presence, though they can't see them. Get too near a
dementor and every good feeling, every happy memory will be sucked out
of you. If it can, the dementor will feed on you long enough to reduce
you to something like itself... soul-less and evil. You'll be left with
nothing but the worst experiences of your life. And the worst that
happened to you, Harry, is enough to make anyone fall off their broom.
You have nothing to feel ashamed of.
When they get near me --
s desk, his throat
tight. "I can hear Voldemort murdering my mum."

Lupin made a sudden motion with his arm as though to grip Harry
s Silence, then
--

"Why did they have to come to the match?" said Harry bitterly.

"They
 said Lupin coolly, shutting his briefcase with
a snap. 
t let them into the school, so their supply of
human prey has dried up.... I don



 Harry muttered. Lupin nodded grimly.


t
need walls and water to keep the prisoners in, not when they



 Harry said slowly. 


Lupin's briefcase slipped from the desk; he had to stoop quickly to
catch it.


 he said, straightening up, 
t have believed it possible.... Dementors are supposed to
drain a wizard of his powers if he is left with them too long...."

"You made that dementor on the train back off," said Harry suddenly.

"There are -- certain defenses one can use," said Lupin. "But there was
only one dementor on the train. The more there are, the more difficult
it becomes to resist."

"What defenses?" said Harry at once. "Can you teach me?"

"I don





Lupin looked into Harry's determined face, hesitated, then said,

ll try and help. But it
m afraid. I have a lot to do before the holidays. I chose a very
inconvenient time to fall ill."

What with the promise of anti-dementor lessons from Lupin, the thought
that he might never have to hear his mother
s mood took a definite upturn. Gryffindor were not
out of the running after all, although they could not afford to lose
another match. Wood became repossessed of his manic energy, and worked
his team as hard as ever in the chilly haze of rain that persisted into
December. Harry saw no hint of a dementor within the grounds.
Dumbledore
t stand
two weeks with Percy, and Hermione insisted she needed to use the
library, Harry wasn
s delight except Harry
We can do all our Christmas shopping there!
Mum and
Dad would really love those Toothflossing Stringmints from Honeydukes!
Psst -- Harry!
What are you doing?
How come you're not going
to Hogsmeade?
We've come to give you a bit of festive cheer before we go,
Come in here....
Early Christmas present for you, Harry,
s jokes, stared at it.

"What



 said George, patting the
parchment fondly.


s a wrench, giving it to you," said Fred, "but we decided last
night, your need



 said George. 
t really need it anymore."

"And what do I need with a bit of old parchment?" said Harry.

"A bit of old parchment!" said Fred, closing his eyes with a grimace as
though Harry had mortally offended him. "Explain, George."

"Well... when we were in our first year, Harry -- young, carefree, and
innocent --"

Harry snorted. He doubted whether Fred and George had ever been
innocent.

"Well, more innocent than we are now -- we got into a spot of bother
with Filch."

"We let off a Dungbomb in the corridor and it upset him for some reason
--"

"So he hauled us off to his office and started threatening us with the
usual --" detention disembowelment and we couldn
Don't tell me --
Well, what would you've done?
George caused a diversion by
dropping another Dungbomb, I whipped the drawer open, and grabbed --
this.
It's not as bad as it sounds, you know,
We don't reckon
Filch ever found out how to work it. He probably suspected what it was,
though, or he wouldn't have confiscated it.
And you know how to work it?
Oh yes,
This little beauty's taught us more than
all the teachers in this school.
You're winding me up,
Oh, are we?
I
solemnly swear that I am up to no good.
s web from the
point that George
S MAP

It was a map showing every detail of the Hogwarts castle and grounds.
But the truly remarkable thing were the tiny ink dots moving around it,
each labeled with a name in minuscule writing. Astounded, Harry bent
over it. A labeled dot in the top left corner showed that Professor
Dumbledore was pacing his study; the caretaker
s eyes traveled up and
down the familiar corridors, he noticed something else.

This map showed a set of passages he had never entered. And many of them
seemed to lead -

"Right into Hogsmeade," said Fred, tracing one of them with his finger.
"There are seven in all. Now, Filch knows about these four" -- he
pointed them out -- "but we
re the only ones who know about
these. Don
s caved in -- completely blocked.
And we don
s ever used this one, because the Whomping
Willow
ve used it loads of times.
And as you might
s hump."

"Moony, Wormtaill Padfoot, and Prongs," sighed George, patting the
heading of the map. "We owe them so much."

"Noble men, working tirelessly to help a new generation of lawbreakers,"
said Fred solemnly.

"Right," said George briskly. "Don
ve used
it or anyone can read it," Fred said warningly.

"Just tap it again and say, 
 And it



 said Fred, in an uncanny impersonation of Percy,




 said George, winking.

They left the room, both smirking in a satisfied sort of way.

Harry stood there, gazing at the miraculous map. He watched the tiny ink
Mrs. Norris turn left and pause to sniff at something on the floor. If
Filch really didn't know... he wouldn't have to pass the dementors at
all....

But even as he stood there, flooded with excitement, something Harry had
once heard Mr. Weasley say came floating out of his memory.

Never trust anything that can think for itself, if you can't see where
it keeps its brain.

This map was one of those dangerous magical objects Mr. Weasley had been
warning against.... Aids for Magical Mischief Makers... but then, Harry
reasoned, he only wanted to use it to get into Hogsmeade, it wasn't as
though he wanted to steal anything or attack anyone... and Fred and
George had been using it for years without anything horrible
happening....

Harry traced the secret passage to Honeydukes with his finger.

Then, quite suddenly, as though following orders, he rolled up the map,
stuffed it inside his robes, and hurried to the door of the classroom.
He opened it a couple of inches. There was no one outside. Very
carefully, he edged out of the room and behind the statue of the
one-eyed witch.

What did he have to do? He pulled out the map again and saw to his
astonishment, that a new ink figure had appeared upon it, labeled Harry
Potter. This figure was standing exactly where the real Harry was
standing, about halfway down the third-floor corridor.

Harry watched carefully. His little Ink self appeared to be tapping the
witch with his minute wand. Harry quickly took out his real wand and
tapped the statue. Nothing happened. He looked back at the map. The
tiniest speech bubble had appeared next to his figure. The word inside
said, 



 Harry whispered, tapping the stone witch again.

At once, the statue's hump opened wide enough to admit a fairly thin
person. Harry glanced quickly up and down the corridor, then tucked the
map away again, hoisted himself into the hole headfirst, and pushed
himself forward.

He slid a considerable way down what felt like a stone slide, then
landed on cold, damp earth. He stood up, looking around. It was

pitch dark. He held up his wand, muttered, 
 and saw that he was
in a very narrow, low, earthy passageway. He raised the map, tapped it
with the tip of his wand, and muttered, 
 The map went
blank at once. He folded it carefully, tucked it inside his robes, then,
heart beating fast, both excited and apprehensive, he set off.

The passage twisted and turned, more like the burrow of a giant rabbit
than anything else. Harry hurried along it, stumbling now and then on
the uneven floor, holding his wand out in front of him.

It took ages, but Harry had the thought of Honeydukes to sustain him.
After what felt like an hour, the passage began to rise. Panting, Harry
sped up, his face hot, his feet very cold.

Ten minutes later, he came to the foot of some worn stone steps, which
rose out of sight above him. Careful not to make any noise, Harry began
to climb. A hundred steps, two hundred steps, he lost count as he
climbed, watching his feet.... Then, without warning, his head hit
something hard.

It seemed to be a trapdoor. Harry stood there, massaging the top of his
head, listening. He couldn't hear any sounds above him. Very slowly, he
pushed the trapdoor open and peered over the edge.

He was in a cellar, which was full of wooden crates and boxes. Harry
climbed out of the trapdoor and replaced it -- it blended so perfectly
with the dusty floor that it was impossible to tell it was there. Harry
crept slowly toward the wooden staircase that led upstairs. Now he could
definitely hear voices, not to mention the tinkle of a bell and the
opening and shutting of a door.

Wondering what he ought to do, he suddenly heard a door open much closer
at hand; somebody was about to come downstairs.


ve nearly cleaned us out
--" said a woman
s piggy face
if he could see where Harry was now.

There were shelves upon shelves of the most succulent-looking sweets
imaginable. Creamy chunks of nougat, shimmering pink squares of coconut
ice, fat, honey-colored toffees; hundreds of different kinds of
chocolate in neat rows; there was a large barrel of Every Flavor Beans,
and another of Fizzing Whizbees, the levitating sherbert balls that Ron
had mentioned; along yet another wall were "Special Effects" -- sweets:
Droobles Best Blowing Gum (which filled a room with bluebell-colored
bubbles that refused to pop for days), the strange, splintery
Toothflossing Stringmints, tiny black Pepper Imps ("breathe fire for
your friends!"), Ice Mice ("hear your teeth chatter and squeak!"),
peppermint creams shaped like toads ("hop realistically in the
stomach!"), fragile sugar-spun quills, and exploding bonbons.

Harry squeezed himself through a crowd of sixth years and saw a sign
hanging in the farthest corner of the shop (UNUSUAL TASTES). Ron and
Hermione were standing underneath it, examining a tray of blood-flavored
lollipops. Harry sneaked up behind them.

"Ugh, no, Harry won
re for vampires, I
expect," Hermione was saying.

"How about these?" said Ron, shoving a jar of Cockroach Clusters under
Hermione
Definitely not,
Harry!
What are you doing here? How -- how did you
--?
Wow!
you've learned to Apparate!
'Course I haven't,
s
Map.

"How come Fred and George never gave it to me!" said Ron, outraged. "I



t going to keep it!" said Hermione, as though the idea
were ludicrous. "He
t you, Harry?"

"No, I
 said Harry.


 said Ron, goggling at Hermione. 



ll have to say where I got it! Filch would know Fred
and George had nicked it!"

"But what about Sirius Black?" Hermione hissed. "He could be using one
of the passages on that map to get into the castle! The teachers have
got to know!"

"He can
 said Harry quickly. 
s caved in, so no one can get through it. one of them
t get out of it.
And the one I just came through -well - - it


Harry hesistated. What if Black did know the passage was there?

Ron, however, cleared his throat significantly, and pointed to a notice
pasted on the inside of the sweetshop door.

--------BY ORDER OF -------- THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC

Customers are reminded that until further notice, dementors will be
patrolling the streets of Hogsmeade every night after sundown. This
measure has been put in place for the safety of Hogsmeade residents and
will be lifted upon the recapture of Sirius Black. It is therefore
advisable that you complete your shopping well before nightfall.

Merry Christmas!


 said Ron quietly. 
d like to see Black try and break into
Honeydukes with dementors swarming all over the village. Anyway,
Hermione, the Honeydukes owners would hear a break-in, wouldn



 Hermoine seemed to be struggling to find another
problem. 
t be coming into Hogsmeade. He
hasn
ll be in so much
trouble! And it



d have a job spotting Harry in this," said Ron, nodding through the
mullioned windows at the thick, swirling snow. "Come on, Hermione, it


Hermione bit her lip, looking extremely worried.


 Harry asked her, grinning.





 said Ron, grabbing him and leading
him over to their barrel. 
 Ron stared
broodingly into the Acid Pop box. 
d take a bit of Cockroach
Cluster if I told him they were peanuts?"

When Ron and Hermione had paid for all their sweets, the three of them
left Honeydukes for the blizzard outside.

Hogsmeade looked like a Christmas card; the little thatched cottages and
shops were all covered in a layer of crisp snow; there were holly
wreaths on the doors and strings of enchanted candles hanging in the
trees.

Harry shivered; unlike the other two, he didn
That's the post office


s is up there --"

"We could go up to the Shrieking Shack

"Tell you what," said Ron, his teeth chattering, "shall we go for a
butterbeer in the Three Broomsticks?"

Harry was more than willing; the wind was fierce and his hands were
freezing, so they crossed the road, and in a few minutes were entering
the tiny inn.

It was extremely crowded, noisy, warm, and smoky. A curvy sort of woman
with a pretty face was serving a bunch of rowdy warlock
That's Madam Rosmerta,
I'll get the drinks, shall I?
Merry Christmas!
d ever tasted and
seemed to heat every bit of him from the inside.

A sudden breeze ruffled his hair. The door of the Three Broomsticks had
opened again. Harry looked over the rim of his tankard and choked.

Professors McGonagall and Flitwick had just entered the pub with a
flurry of snowflakes, shortly followed by Hagrid, who was deep in
conversation with a portly man in a lime-green bowler hat and a
pinstriped cloak -- Cornelius Fudge, Minister of Magic.

In an instant, Ron and Hermione had both placed hands on the top of
Harry
 and Fudge


The Christmas tree beside their table rose a few inches off the ground,
drifted sideways, and landed with a soft thump right in front of their
table, hiding them from view. Staring through the dense lower branches,
Harry saw four sets of chair legs move back from the table right beside
theirs, then heard the grunts and sighs If the teachers and minister as
they sat down.

Next he saw another pair of feet, wearing sparkly turquoise high heels,
and heard a woman's voice. 



 said Professor McGonagall's voice.





 said Hagrid.





 said Professor Flitwick, smacking his lips.


ll be the red currant rum, Minister."

"Thank you, Rosmerta, m
 said Fudge's voice. 
t you? Come and join us...."

"Well, thank you very much, Minister."

Harry watched the glittering heels march away and back again. His heart
was pounding uncomfortably in his throat. Why hadn
s leg
gave a nervous twitch next to him.

"So, what brings you to this neck of the woods, Minister?" came Madam
Rosmerta
s thick body twist in his chair as
though he were checking for eavesdroppers. Then he said in a quiet
voice, "What else, m


I did hear a rumor,
Did you tell the whole pub, Hagrid?
Do you think Blacks still in the area, Minister?
I'm sure of it,
You know that the dementors have searched the whole village twjce?
Scared all my
customers away... It's very bad for business, Minister.
Rosmerta, dear, I don't like them any more than you do,
Necessary precaution... unfortunate, but there YOU
are.... I've just met some of them. They're in a fury against Dumbledore
-- he won't let them inside the castle grounds.
I should think not,
How are we
supposed to teach with those horrors floating around?
Hear, hear!
All the same,
they are here to protect you all from
something much worse.... We all know what Black's capable of...
Do you know, I still have trouble believing it,
Of all the people to go over to the Dark Side, Sirius
Black was the last I'd have thought... I mean, I remember him when he
was a boy at Hogwarts. If you'd told me then what he was going to
become, I'd have said you'd had too much mead.
You don't know the half of it, Rosmerta,
The
worst he did isn't widely known.
The worst?
Worse
than murdering all those poor people, you mean?
I certainly do,
I ca'A believe that. What could possibly be worse?
You say you
remember him at Hogwarts, Rosmerta,
Do you remember who his-best friend was?
Naturally,
Never saw one
without the other, did you? The number of times I had them in here --
ooh, they used to make me laugh. Quite the double act, Sirius Black and
James Potter!
Precisely,
Black and Potter. Ringleaders
of their little gang. Both very bright, of course -- exceptionally
bright, in fact -- but I don't think we've ever had such a pair of
troublemakers --
I dunno,
Fred and George Weasley could give 'em a
run fer their money.
You'd have thought Black and Potter were brothers!
Inseparable!
Of course they were,
Potter trusted Black beyond all his
other friends. Nothing changed when they left school. Black was best man
when James married Lily. Then they named him godfather to Harry. Harry
has no idea, of course. You can imagine how the idea would torment him.
Because Black turned out to be in league with You-Know-Who?
Worse even than that, rn'dear....
Not many people are aware that the
Potters knew You-Know-Who was after them. Dumbledore, who was of course
working tirelessly against You-Know-Who, had a number of useful spies.
One of them tipped him off, and he alerted James and Lily at once. He
advised them to go into hiding. Well, of course, You-Know-Who wasn't an
easy person to hide from. Dumbledore told them that their best chance
was the Fidelius Charm.
How does that work?
An immensely complex spell,
involving the magical
concealment of a secret inside a single, living soul. The information is
hidden inside the chosen person, or Secret-Keeper, and is henceforth
impossible to find -- unless, of course, the Secret-Keeper chooses to
divulge it. As long as the Secret-Keeper refused to speak, You-Know-Who
could search the village where Lily and James were staying for years and
never find them, not even if he had his nose pressed against their
sitting room window!
So Black was the Potters' Secret-Keeper?
Naturally,
James Potter told Dumbledore
that Black would die rather than tell where they were, that Black was
planning to go into hiding himself... and yet, Dumbledore remained
worried. I remember him offering to be the Potters' Secret-Keeper
himself.
He suspected Black?
He was sure that somebody close to the Potters had been keeping
You-Know-Who informed of their movements,
Indeed, he had suspected for some time that someone on our side
had turned traitor and was passing a lot of information to
You-Know-Who.
But James Potter insisted on using Black?
He did,
And then, barely a week after the
Fidelius Charm had been performed --
Black betrayed them?
He did indeed. Black was tired of his double-agent role, he was ready
to declare his support openly for You-Know-Who, and he seems to have
planned this for the moment of the Potters' death. But, as we all know,
You-Know-Who met his downfall in little Harry Potter. Powers gone,
horribly weakened, he fled. And this left Black in a very nasty position
indeed. His master had fallen at the very moment when he, Black, had
shown his true colors as a traitor. He had no choice but to run for it
--
Filthy, stinkin' turncoat!
Shh!
I met him!
I musta bin the last ter see him before he
killed all them people! It was me what rescued Harry from Lily an'
James's house after they was killed! jus' got him outta the ruins, poor
little thing, with a great slash across his forehead, an' his parents
dead... an' Sirius Black turns up, on that flyin' motorbike he used ter
ride. Never occurred ter me what he was doin' there. I didn' know he'd
bin Lily an' James's Secret-Keeper. Thought he'd jus' heard the news o'
You-Know-Who's attack an' come ter see what he could do. White an'
shakin', he was. An' yeh know what I did? I COMFORTED THE MURDERIN'
TRAITOR!
Hagrid, please!
Keep your voice down!
How was I ter know he wasn' upset abou' Lily an' James? It was
You-Know-Who he cared abou'! An' then he says, 'Give Harry ter me,
Hagrid, I'm his godfather, I'll look after him --' Ha! But I'd had me
orders from Dumbledore, an' I told Black no, Dumbledore said Harry was
ter go ter his aunt an' uncle's. Black argued, but in the end he gave
in. Told me ter take his motorbike ter get Harry there. 'I won't need it
anymore,' he says.


 fishy goin
 it ter me for? Why wouldn
d bin
the Potters
 ter have ter run fer
it that night, knew it was a matter o
But what if I'd given Harry to him, eh? I bet he'd 've pitched him off
the bike halfway out ter sea. His bes' friends' son! But when a wizard
goes over ter the Dark Side, there's nothin' and no one that matters to
em anymore....
s story. Then Madam Rosmerta said with
some satisfaction, "But he didn



 said Fudge bitterly. 
 friends.
Maddened by grief, no doubt, and knowing that Black had been the
Potters



 said Madam Rosmerta.


 said Professor McGonagall. 
 She sounded as though
she had a sudden head cold.


 said Fudge kindly, 
s
death. Eyewitnesses -- Muggles, of course, we wiped their, memories
later -- told us how Pettigrew cornered Black. They say he was sobbing,

 And then he went for his wand.
Well, of course, Black was quicker. Blew Pettigrew to smithereens...."

Professor McGonagall blew her nose and said thickly, "Stupid boy ...
foolish boy... he was always hopeless at dueling... should have left it
to the Ministry...."

"I tell yeh, if I
t 
d 
 Hagrid growled.


t know what you
 said Fudge sharply.



Fudge's voice stopped abruptly. There was the sound of five noses being
blown.


 said Fudge thickly. 
Squad and
Pettigrew received the Order of Merlin, First Class, which I think was
some comfort to his poor mother. Blades been in Azkaban ever since."

Madam Rosmerta let out a long sigh.

"Is it true he



 said Fudge slowly. 
s defeat unhinged him for a while. The murder of
Pettigrew and all those Muggles was the action of a cornered and
desperate man -- cruel... pointless. Yet I met Black on my last
inspection of Azkaban. You know, most of the prisoners in there sit
muttering to themselves in the dark; there
d have thought he was merely bored -- asked if I



s broken out to do?" said Madam Rosmerta.
"Good gracious, Minister, he isn


I daresay that is his -- er -- eventual plan,
But we hope to catch Black long before that. I must say, You-Know-Who
alone and friendless is one thing... but give him back his most devoted
servant, and I shudder to think how quickly he'll rise again....
You know, Cornelius, if you're dining with the headmaster, he'd better
head back up to the castle,
s
glittering heels disappeared behind the bar. The door of the Three
Broomsticks opened again, there was another flurry of snow, and the
teachers had disappeared.

"Harry?"

Ron
s faces appeared under the table. They were both
staring at him, lost for words.

CHAPTER ELEVEN

THE FIREBOLT

Harry didn
t anyone ever mentioned the fact that Harry
d overheard, because Percy was sitting
close by them. When they went upstairs to the crowded common room, it
was to find Fred and George had set off half a dozen Dungbombs in a fit
of end- of-term high spirits. Harry, who didn
d reached Hogsmeade or not, sneaked quietly up to
the empty dormitory and headed straight for his bedside cabinet. He
pushed his books aside and quickly found what he was looking for -- the
leather-bound photo album Hagrid had given him two years ago, which was
full of wizard pictures of his mother and father. He sat down on his
bed, drew the hangings around him, and started turning the pages,
searching, until...

He stopped on a picture of his parents
t known it was the same person, he would never have guessed
it was Black in this old photograph. His face wasn
t affect him, Harry thought, staring into the
handsome, laughing face. He doesn
Harry?
s voice uncertainly.

But Harry still, pretending to be asleep. He heard Ron leave again, and
rolled over on his back, his eyes wide open.

A hatred such as he had never known before was coursing through Harry
like poison. He could see Black laughing at him through the darkness, as
though somebody had pasted the picture from the album over his eyes. He
watched, as though somebody was playing him a piece of film, Sirius
Black blasting Peter Pettigrew (who resembled Neville Longbottom) into a
thousand pieces. He could hear (though having no idea what Black
It has happened, My Lord...
the Potters have made me their Secret-Keeper and then came another
voice, laughing shrilly, the same laugh that Harry heard inside his head
whenever the dementors drew near....




Harry hadn't gotten to sleep until daybreak. He had awoken to find the
dormitory deserted, dressed, and gone down the spiral staircase to a
common room that was completely empty except for Ron, who was eating a
Peppermint Toad and massaging his stomach, and Hermione, who had spread
her homework over three tables.


 said Harry.


s the first day of the holidays, remember?" said Ron, watching
Harry closely. "It


Harry slumped into a chair next to the fire. Snow was still falling
outside the windows. Crookshanks was spread out in front of the fire
like a large, ginger rug.


 look well, you know," Hermione said, peering anxiously
into his face.

"I
 said Harry.


 said Hermione, exchanging a look with Ron, you must be
really upset about what we heard yesterday. But the thing is, you
mustn't go doing anything stupid.
Like what?
Like trying to go after Black,
t say anything.

"You won
 said Hermione.


s not worth dying for," said Ron.

Harry looked at them. They didn
D'you know what I see and hear every time a dementor gets too near me?
I can hear my
mum screaming and pleading with Voldemort. And if you'd heard your mum
screaming like that, just about to be killed, you wouldn't forget it in
a hurry. And if you found out someone who was supposed to be a friend of
hers betrayed her and sent Voldemort after her --
There's nothing you can do!
The
dementors will catch Black and he'll go back to Azkaban and -- and serve
him right!
You heard what Fudge said. Black isn't affected by Azkaban like normal
people are. It's not a punishment for him like it is for the others.
So what are you saying?
You want to --
to kill Black or something?
Don't be silly,
Harry doesn't want
to kill anyone, do you, Harry?
t answer. He didn
 he said abruptly. 
If it was me, I
d want revenge.

"You
s advice instead of ours?" said Ron
furiously. "Listen... you know what Pettigrew
s finger in a box. That was the biggest bit of him
they could find. Black
s dangerous --"

"Malfoy
 said Harry, ignoring Ron. 
s inner circle --"

"Say You-Know-Who, will you?" interjected Ron angrily.

"-- so obviously, the Malfoys knew Black was working for Voldemort --"

"-- and Malfoy
s just hoping you



 said Hermione, her eyes now shining with tears, 
t Put
Yourself in danger, it
d be
Playing right into Black
t want you to get hurt, would they? They



ll never know what they
ve
never spoken to them," said Harry shortly.

There was a silence in which Crookshanks stretched luxuriously flexing
his claws. Ron
Look,
it's the holidays! It's nearly Christmas! Let's -- let's go down and
see Hagrid. We haven't visited him for ages!
No!
Harry isn't supposed to leave the castle,
Ron --
Yeah, let's go,
and I can ask him how come he
never mentioned Black when he told me all about my parents!
t what Ron had had in
mind.

"Or we could have a game of chess, he said hastily, "or Gobstones. Percy
left a set --"

"No, let
 said Harry firmly.

So they got their cloaks from their dormitories and set off through the
portrait hole (
), down
through the empty castle and out through the oak front doors.

They made their way slowly down the lawn, making a shallow trench in the
glittering, powdery snow, their socks and the hems of their cloaks
soaked and freezing. The Forbidden Forest looked as though it had been
enchanted, each tree smattered with silver, and Hagrid's cabin looked
like an iced cake.

Ron knocked, but there was no answer.


s not out, is he?" said Hermione, who was shivering under her cloak.

Ron had his ear to the door.

"There
 he said. 


Harry and Hermione put their ears to the door too. From inside the cabin
came a series of low, throbbing moans.


d better go and get someone?" said Ron nervously.

"Hagrid!" called Harry, thumping the door. "Hagrid, are you in there.

There was a sound of heavy footsteps, then the door creaked open. Hagrid
stood there with his eyes red and swollen, tears splashing down the
front of his leather vest.

"YWve heard?" he bellowed, and he flung himself onto Harry
s weight, was
rescued by Ron and Hermione, who each seized Hagrid under an arm and
heaved him back into the cabin. Hagrid allowed himself to be steered
into a chair and slumped over the table, sobbing uncontrollably, his
face glazed with tears that dripped down into his tangled beard.

"Hagrid, what is it?" said Hermione, aghast.

Harry spotted an official-looking letter lying open on the table.

"What


Hagrid's sobs redoubled, but he shoved the letter toward Harry, who
Picked it up and read aloud:

Dear Mr. Hagrid,

Further to our inquiry into the attack by a hippogriff on a student in
your class, we have accepted the assurances of Professor Dumbledore that
you bear no responsibility for the regrettable incident.


s okay then, Hagrid!" said Ron, clapping Hagrid oil the
shoulder. But Hagrid continued to sob, and waved one of his gigantic
hands, inviting Harry to read on.

However, we must register our concern about the hippogriff in question.
We have decided to uphold the official complaint of Mr. Lucius Malfoy,
and this matter will therefore be taken to the Committee for the
Disposal of Dangerous Creatures. The hearing will take place on April
20th, and we ask you to present yourself and your hippogriff at the
Committee
Oh,
But you said Buckbeak isn't a bad hippogriff, Hagrid. I
bet he'll get off


 know them gargoyles at the Committee fer the Disposal o
 choked Hagrid, wiping his eyes on his sleeve.

ve got it in fer interestin


A sudden sound from the corner of Hagrid's cabin made Harry, Ron, and
Hermione whip around. Buckbeak the hippogriff was lying in the corner,
chomping on something that was oozing blood all over the floor.


 leave him tied up out there in the snow!" choked Hagrid. "All
on his own! At Christmas."

Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one another. They had never seen eye
to eye with Hagrid about what he called "interesting creatures" and
other people called "terrifying monsters." Or
t seem to be any particular harm in Buckbeak. In fact, by Hagrid
You'll have to put up a good strong defense, Hagrid,
s massive forearm. "I



t make no diff
 sobbed Hagrid. 
re all in Lucius Malfoy
 him! Ad if I lose the
case, Buckbeak --"

Hagrid drew his finger swiftly across his throat, then gave a great wail
and lurched forward, his face in his arms.

"What about Dumbledore, Hagrid?" said Harry.

"He
n enough fer me already," groaned Hagrid. "Got enough on
his plate what with keepin
 Sirius
Black lurkin


Ron and Hermione looked quickly at Harry, as though expecting him to
start berating Hagrid for not telling him the truth about Black. But
Harry couldn't bring himself to do it, not now that he saw Hagrid so
miserable and scared.


 he said, 
t give up. Hermione



m sure I
 said Hermione
thoughtfully, 
ll look it up for you,
Hagrid, and see exactly what happened."

Hagrid howled still more loudly. Harry and Hermione looked at Ron to
help them.

"Er -- shall I make a cup of tea?" said Ron.

Harry stared at him.

"It
s upset," Ron muttered,
shrugging.

At last, after many more assurances of help, with a steaming mug of tea
in front of him, Hagrid blew his nose on a handkerchief the size of a
tablecloth and said, "Yer right. I can
s knee.

"I
 said Hagrid, stroking Fang with one hand
and mopping his face with the other. 
 Buckbeak, an
 me classes --"

"We do like them!" lied Hermione at once.

"Yeah, they
 said Ron, crossing his fingers under the table.




 said Hagrid gloomily. 



 said Ron, his lip twitching.


 them dementors make me feel ruddy terrible an
 said Hagrid,
with a sudden shudder. 
em ev
S like bein


He fell silent, gulping his tea. Harry, Ron, and Hermione watched him
breathlessly. They had never heard Hagrid talk about his brief spell in
Azkaban before. After a pause, Hermione said timidly, 



ve no idea," said Hagrid quietly. "Never bin anywhere like it.
Thought I was goin
 goin


His eyes filled with tears. Norbert was the baby dragon Hagrid had once
won in a game of cards.


 really remember who yeh are after a while. An
 really
see the point o
 at all. I used ter hope I
 die in me
sleep. When they let me out, it was like bein
rythin
 back, it was the bes
 in the world. Mind, the
dementors weren
 me go."

"But you were innocent!" said Hermione.

Hagrid snorted.

"Think that matters to them? They don
ve got a
couple o
em, so they can leech all the
happiness out of 
 give a damn who
 who


Hagrid went quiet for a moment, staring into his tea. Then he said
quietly, 
 jus
 ter make him fly
away... but how d
s gotta go inter
hidin
 -an
m scared o
 the law...." He looked up at
them, tears leaking down his face again. "I don


The trip to Hagrid's, though far from fun, had nevertheless had the
effect Ron and Hermione had hoped. Though Harry had by no means
forgotten about Black, he couldn't brood constantly on revenge if he
wanted to help Hagrid win his case against the Committee for the
Disposal of Dangerous Creatures. He, Ron, and Hermione went to the
library the next day and returned to the empty common room laden with
books that might help prepare a defense for Buckbeak. The three of them
sat in front of the roaring fire, slowly turning the pages of dusty
volumes about famous cases If marauding beasts, speaking occasionally
when they ran across something relevant.


s something... there was a case in 1722... but the hippogriff was
convicted -- ugh, look what they did to it, that





Meanwhile, in the rest of the castle, the usual magnificent Christmas
decorations had been put up, despite the fact that hardly any of the
students remained to enjoy them. Thick streamers of holly and mistletoe
were strung along the corridors, mysterious lights shone from inside
every suit of armor, and the Great Hall was filled with its usual twelve
Christmas trees, glittering with golden stars. A powerful and delicious
smell of cooking pervaded the corridors, and by Christmas Eve, it had
grown so strong that even Scabbers poked his nose out of the shelter of
Ron's pocket to sniff hopefully at the air.

On Christmas morning, Harry was woken by Ron throwing his pillow at him.




Harry reached for his glasses and put them on, squinting through the
semi-darkness to the foot of his bed, where a small heap of parcels had
appeared. Ron was already ripping the paper off his own presents.

'Another sweater from Mum... maroon again... see if you've got one.

Harry had. Mrs. Weasley had sent him a scarlet sweater with the
Gryffindor lion knitted on the front, also a dozen home-baked mince
pies, some Christmas cake, and a box of nut brittle. As he moved all
these things aside, he saw a long, thin package lying underneath.


s that?" said Ron, looking over, a freshly unwrapped pair of
maroon socks in his hand.

"Dunno..."

Harry ripped the parcel open and gasped as a magnificent, gleaming
broomstick rolled out onto his bedspread. Ron dropped his socks and
jumped off his bed for a closer look.

"I don
 he said hoarsely.

It was a Firebolt, identical to the dream broom Harry had gone to see
every day in Diagon Alley. Its handle glittered as he picked it up. He
could feel it vibrating and let go; it hung in midair, unsupported, at
exactly the right height for him to mount it. His eyes moved from the
golden registration number at the top of the handle, right down to the
perfectly smooth, streamlined birch twigs that made up the tail.


 said Ron in a hushed voice.


s a card," said Harry.

Ron ripped apart the Firebolt
Nothing! Blimey, who'd spend that much on you?
Well,
I'm betting it wasn't the
Dursleys.
 said Ron, now walking around and around the
Firebolt, taking in every glorious inch. 



s, though," said Harry. "Dumbledore was just Passing it
on to me. He wouldn
t go
giving students stuff like this --"

"That
t say it was from him!" said Ron. "In case some
git like Malfoy said it was favoritism. Hey, Harry" -- Ron gave a great
whoop of laughter -- "Malfoy! Wait till he sees you on this! He



t believe this," Harry muttered, running a hand along the
Firebolt, while Ron sank onto Harry
Who -?
I know,
I know who it could've been --
Lupin!
What?
Lupin? Listen, if he
had this much gold, he'd be able to buy himself some new robes.
Yeah, but he likes you,
And he was away when your Nimbus
got smashed, and he might've heard about it and decided to visit Diagon
Alley and get this for you --
What d'you mean, he was away?
He was ill when I was
playing in that match.
Well, he wasn't in the hospital wing,
I was there, cleaning
out the bedpans on that detention from Snape, remember?
I can't see Lupin affording something like this.
What're you two laughing about?
Don't bring him in here!
t listening. She dropped Crookshanks onto Seamus
Oh, Harry! Who sent you that?
No idea,
There wasn't a card or anything with it.
What's the matter with you?
I don't know,
but it's a bit odd, isn't it? I
mean, this is supposed to be quite a good broom, isn't it?
It's the best broom there is, Hermione,
So it must've been really expensive....
Probably cost more than all the Slytherins' brooms put together,
Well... who'd send Harry something as expensive as that, and not even
tell him they'd sent it?
Who cares?
Listen, Harry, can I have a go on
it? Can I?
I don't think anyone should ride that broom just yet!
What d'you think Harry's going to do with it -- sweep the floor?
s bed,
right at Ron
GET -- HIM -- OUT -- OF -- HERE!
s claws
ripped his pajamas and Scabbers attempted a wild escape over his
shoulder. Ron seized Scabbers by the tail and aimed a misjudged kick at
Crookshanks that hit the trunk at the end of Harry
s fur suddenly stood on end. A shrill, tint,, whistling was
filling the room. The Pocket Sneakoscope had become dislodged from Uncle
Vernon
 Harry said, bending down and picking up the
Sneakoscope. I never wear those socks if I can help it....

The Sneakoscope whirled and whistled in his palm. Crookshanks was
hissing and spitting at it.


d better take that cat out of here, Hermione," said Ron furiously,
sitting on Harry
Can't you shut that thing up?
s
yellow eyes still fixed maliciously on Ron.

Harry stuffed the Sneakoscope back inside the socks and threw it back
into his trunk. All that could be heard now were Ron
s hands. It had been a while
since Harry had seen him out of Ron
He's not looking too good, is he?
It's stress!
He'd be fine if that big stupid furball left
him alone!
t help feeling that unless
Scabbers had powers he had never revealed, he was reaching the end of
his life. And despite Ron
s fresh attempt to eat Scabbers. Harry
gave up trying to make them talk to each other and devoted himself to
examining the Firebolt, which he had brought down to the common room
with him. For some reason this seemed to annoy Hermione as well; she
didn
Merry Christmas!
As there are so few of us, it seemed foolish to
use the House tables.... Sit down, sit down!
Crackers!
s eye and they both grinned;
Snape
s hat at once.

"Dig in!" he advised the table, beaming around.

As Harry was helping himself to roast potatoes, the doors of the Great
Hall opened again. It was Professor Trelawney, gliding toward them as
though on wheels. She had put on a green sequined dress in honor of the
occasion, making her look more than ever like a glittering, oversized
dragonfly.

"Sibyll, this is a pleasant surprise!" said Dumbledore, standing up.

"I have been crystal gazing, Headmaster," said Professor Trelawney in
her mistiest, most faraway voice, "and to my astonishment, I saw myself
abandoning my solitary luncheon and coming to join you. Who am I to
refuse the promptings of fate? I at once hastened from my tower, and I
do beg you to forgive my lateness...."

"Certainly, certainly," said Dumbledore, his eyes twinkling. "Let me
draw you up a chair --"

And he did indeed draw a chair in midair with his wand, which revolved
for a few seconds before falling with a thud between Professors Snape
and McGonagall. Professor Trelawney, however, did not sit down; her
enormous eyes had been roving around the table, and she suddenly uttered
a kind of soft scream.

I dare not, Headmaster! If I join the table, we shall be thirteen!
Nothing could be more unlucky! Never forget that when thirteen dine
together, the first to rise will be the first to die!"

"We
 said Professor McGonagall inpatiendy. 
s getting stone cold."

Professor Trelawney hesitated, then lowered herself into the empty
chair, eyes shut and mouth clenched tight, as though expecting a
thunderbolt to hit the table. Professor McGonagall poked a large spoon
into the nearest tureen.

"Tripe, Sibyll?"

Professor Trelawney ignored her. Eyes open again, she looked around once
more and said, "But where is dear Professor Lupin?"

"I
 said Dumbledore, indicating
that everybody should start serving themselves. 



 said Professor McGonagall,
her eyebrows raised.

Professor Trelawney gave Professor McGonagall a very cold look.


But one does not
parade the fact that one is All- Knowing. I frequently act as though I
am not possessed of the Inner Eye, so as not to make others nervous.


 said Professor McGonagall tartly.

Professor Trelawney's voice suddenly became a good deal less misty.





 said Professor McGonagall dryly.

I doubt,
s
conversation, "that Professor Lupin is in any immediate danger. Severus,
you



 said Snape. 
 said Harry, scrambling to
his feet. 



 said Professor McGonagall. 
m no expert, but I daresay Madam Hooch and Professor Flitwick
will strip it down --"

"Strip it down?" repeated Ron, as though Professor McGonagall was mad.

"It shouldn
 said Professor McGonagall.




s nothing wrong with it!" said Harry, his voice shaking slightly.
"Honestly, Professor --"

"You can
 said Professor McGonagall, quite kindly,

ve flown it, at any rate, and I


Professor McGonagall turned on her heel and carried the Firebolt out of
the portrait hole, which closed behind her. Harry stood staring after
her, the tin of High-Finish Polish still clutched in his hands. Ron,
however, rounded on Hermione.


Because I thought -- and Professor McGonagall agrees with me -- that
that broom was probably sent to Harry by Sirius Black!
t stop him from
being angry with her. He had been the owner of the best broom in the
world for a few short hours, and now, because of her interference, he
didn
t try to persuade her to come back.
All in all, they were glad when the rest of the school returned shortly
after New Year, and Gryffindor Tower became crowded and noisy again.
Wood sought Harry out on the night before term started.

"Had a good Christmas?" he said, and then, without waiting for an
answer, he sat down, lowered his voice, and said, "I
t afford you to --
well --"

Wood broke off, looking awkward.

"I
 said Harry quickly. 
d
train me to ward off the dementors. We should be starting this week. He
said he



 said Wood, his expression clearing. 
t want to lose you as Seeker, Harry. And have you ordered a
new broom yet?"

"No," said Harry.

"What! You
t ride that
Shooting Star against Ravenclaw!"

"He got a Firebolt for Christmas," said Ron.

"A Firebolt? No! Seriously? A -- a real Firebolt?"

"Don
 said Harry gloomily. 
t got it
anymore. It was confiscated." And he explained all about how the
Firebolt was now being checked for jinxes.

"Jinxed? How could it be jinxed?"

"Sirius Black" Harry said wearily. "He


Waving aside the information that a famous murderer was after his
Seeker, Wood said, 
t have bought a Firebolt! He
s on the lookout for him! How could he just
walk into Quality Quidditch Supplies and buy a broomstick?"

"I know," said Harry, "but McGonagall still wants to strip it down --"

Wood went pale.

"I
 he promised. 
ll make her see
reason.... A Firebolt... a real Firebolt, on our team... She wants
Gryffindor to win as much as we do.... I


Classes started again the next day. The last thing anyone felt like
doing was spending two hours on the grounds on a raw January morning,
but Hagrid had provided a bonfire full of salamanders for their
enjoyment, and they spent an unusually good lesson collecting dry wood
and leaves to keep the fire blazing while the flame-loving lizards
scampered up and down the crumbling, white-hot logs. The first
Divination lesson of the new term was much less fun; Professor Trelawney
was now teaching them palmistry, and she lost no time in informing Harry
that he had the shortest life line she had ever seen.

It was Defense Against the Dark Arts that Harry was keen to get to;
after his conversation with Wood, he wanted to get started on his
anti-dementor lessons as soon as possible.


 said Lupin, when Harry reminded him of his promise at the end
of class. 
clock on Thursday evening?
The History of Magic classroom should be large enough.... I
re going to do this.... We can



t he?" said Ron as they walked down the
corridor, heading to dinner. "What d
s the matter with him?"

There was a loud and impatient "tuh" from behind them. It was Hermione,
who had been sitting at the feet of a suit of armor, repacking her bag,
which was so full of books it wouldn
And what are you tutting at us for?
Nothing,
Yes, you were,
I said I wonder what's wrong with Lupin, and
you --
Well, isn't it obvious?
If you don't want to tell us, don't,
Fine,
She doesn't know,
She's
just trying to get us to talk to her again.
clock on Thursday evening, Harry left Gryffindor Tower for
the History of Magic classroom. It was dark and empty when he arrived,
but he lit the lamps with his wand and had waited only five minutes when
Professor Lupin turned up, carrying a large packing case, which he
heaved onto Professor Binn
What's that?
Another boggart,
I've been
combing the castle ever since Tuesday, and very luckily, I found this
one lurking inside Mr. Filch's filing cabinet. It's the nearest we'll
get to a real dementor. The boggart will turn into a dementor when he
sees you, so we'll be able to practice on him. I can store him in my
office when we're not using him; there's a cupboard under my desk he'll
like.
Okay,
t apprehensive at
all and merely glad that Lupin had found such a good substitute for a
real dementor.

"So..." Professor Lupin had taken out his own wand, and indicated that
Harry should do the same. "The spell I am going to try and teach you is
highly advanced magic, Harry -- well beyond ordinary Wizarding Level. It
is called the Patronus Charm."

"How does it work?" said Harry nervously.

"Well, when it works correctly, It conjures up a Patronus," said Lupin,
"which is a kind of anti- dementor -- a guardian that acts as a shield
between you and the dementor."

Harry had a sudden vision of himself crouching behind a Hagridsized
figure holding a large club. Professor Lupin continued, "The Patronus is
a kind of positive force, a projection of the very things that the
dementor feeds upon -- hope, happiness, the desire to survive -- but it
cannot feel despair, as real humans can, so the dementors can



 said Harry curiously.










Harry cast his mind about for a happy memory. Certainly, nothing that
had happened to him at the Dursleys' was going to do. Finally, he
settled on the moment when he had first ridden a broomstick.


 he said, trying to recall as exactly as possible the wonderful,
soaring sensation of his stomach.


 Lupin cleared his throat. 



 Harry repeated under his breath, 






 said Harry, quickly forcing his thoughts back to that
first broom ride. 


Something whooshed suddenly out of the end of his wand; it looked like a
wisp of silvery gas.


 said Harry excitedly. 



 said Lupin, smiling. 



 Harry said, gripping his wand very tightly, and moving into the
middle of the deserted classroom. He tried to keep his mind on flying,
but something else kept intruding.... Any second now, he might hear his
mother again... but he shouldn't think that, or he would hear her again,
and he didn't want to... or did he?

Lupin grasped the lid of the packing case and pulled.

A dementor rose slowly from the box, its hooded face turned toward
Harry, one glistening, scabbed hand gripping its cloak. The lamps around
the classroom flickered and went out. The dementor stepped from the box
and started to sweep silently toward Harry, drawing a deep, rattling
breath. A wave of piercing cold broke over him --


 Harry yelled. 


But the classroom and the dementor were dissolving.... Harry was failing
again through thick white fog, and his mother's voice was louder than
ever, echoing inside his head -- 
ll
do anything!"

"Stand aside. Stand aside, girl!"

"Harry!"

Harry jerked back to life. He was lying flat on his back on the floor.
The classroom lamps were alight again. He didn
Sorry,
Are you all right?
Yes...
Here --
Eat this before we try
again. I didn't expect you to do it your first time; in fact, I would
have been astounded if you had.
It's getting worse,
s head. "I
could hear her louder that time -- and him -- Voldemort

Lupin looked paler than usual. ,

"Harry, if you don



 said Harry fiercely, stuffing the rest of the Chocolate Frog
into his mouth. 
ve got to! What if the dementors turn up at our match
against Ravenclaw? I can
ve lost the Quidditch Cup!"

"All right then... " said Lupin. "You might want to select 
t
seem to have been strong enough...."

Harry thought hard and decided his feelings when Gryffindor had won the
House Championship last year had definitely qualified as very happy. He
gripped his wand tightly again and took up his position in the middle of
the classroom.

"Ready?" said Lupin, gripping the box lid.

"Ready," said Harry; trying hard to fill his head with happy thoughts
about Gryffindor winning, and not dark thoughts about what was going to
happen when the box opened.

"Go!" said Lupin, pulling off the lid. The room went icily cold and dark
once more. The dementor glided forward, drawing its breath; one rotting
hand was extending toward Harry -

"Expecto patronum!" Harry yelled. "Expecto patronum! Expecto Pat --"

White fog obscured his senses... big, blurred shapes were moving around
him... then came a new voice, a man
Lily, take Harry and go! It's him! Go! Run! I'll hold him off --
Harry! Harry... wake up....
I heard my dad,
That's the first time I've ever heard
him -- he tried to take on Voldemort himself, to give my mum time to run
for it....
t see.

"You heard James?" said Lupin in a strange voice.

"Yeah..." Face dry, Harry looked up. "Why -- you didn



 said Lupin. 
t have suggested
putting you through this...."

"No!" said Harry. He got up again. "I
m not
thinking of happy enough things, that


He racked his brains. A really, really happy memory... one that he could
turn into a good, strong Patronus...

The moment when he'd first found out he was a wizard, and would be
leaving the Dursleys for Hogwarts! If that wasn't a happy memory, he
didn't know what was.... Concentrating very hard on how he had felt when
he'd realized he'd be leaving Privet Drive, Harry got to his feet and
faced the packing case once more.


 said Lupin, who looked as though he were doing this against his
better judgment. 


He pulled off the lid of the case for the third time, and the dementor
rose out of it; the room fell cold and dark

'EXPECTO PATRONUM!
EXPECTO PATRONUM! EXPECTO PATRONUM!

s head had started again -- except this time,
it sounded as though it were coming from a badly tuned radio -- softer
and louder and softer again -- and he could still see the dementor -- it
had halted -- and then a huge, silver shadow came bursting out of the
end of Harry
s legs felt like water, he was still on his feet -- though for how
much longer, he wasn
Riddikulus!
s cloudy Patronus vanished along with
the dementor; he sank into a chair, feeling as exhausted as if he
Excellent!
Excellent,
Harry! That was definitely a start!
Can we have another go? Just one more go?
Not now,
You've had enough for one night. Here --
 best chocolate.

"Eat the lot, or Madam Pomfrey will be after my blood. Same time next
week?"

"Okay," said Harry. He took a bite of the chocolate and watched Lupin
extinguishing the lamps that had rekindled with the disappearance of the
dementor. A thought had just occurred to him.

"Professor Lupin?" he said. "If you knew my dad, you must


Lupin turned very quickly.


 he said sharply.




Lupin's face relaxed.


 he said shortly. 
d better be
off, Harry, it


Harry left the classroom, walking along the corridor and around a
corner, then took a detour behind a suit of armor and sank down on its
plinth to finish his chocolate, wishing he hadn't mentioned Black, as
Lupin was obviously not keen on the subject. Then Harry's thoughts
wandered back to his mother and father...

He felt drained and strangely empty, even though he was so full of
chocolate. Terrible though it was to hear his parents' last moments
replayed inside his head, these were the only times Harry had heard
their voices since he was a very small child. But he'd never be able to
produce a proper Patronus if he half wanted to hear his parents
again....


re dead," he told himself sternly. "They
t bring them back. You


He stood up, crammed the last bit of chocolate into his mouth, and
headed back to Gryffindor Tower.

Ravenclaw played Slytherin a week after the start of term. Slytherin
won, though narrowly. According to Wood, this was good news for
Gryffindor, who would take second place if they beat Ravenclaw too. He
therefore increased the number of team practices to five a leek. This
meant that with Lupin's anti-dementor classes, which in themselves were
more draining than six Quidditch practices, Harry had just one night a
week to do all his homework. Even so, he was showing the strain nearly
as much as Hermione, whose immense workload finally seemed to be getting
to her. Every night, without fail, Hermione was to be seen in a corner
of the common room, several tables spread with books, Arithmancy charts,
rune dictionaries, diagrams of Muggles lifting heavy objects, and file
upon file of extensive notes; she barely spoke to anybody and snapped
when she was interrupted.


s she doing it?" Ron muttered to Harry one evening as Harry sat
finishing a nasty essay on Undetectable Poisons for Snape. Harry looked
up. Hermione was barely visible behind a tottering pile of books.

"Doing what?"

"Getting to all her classes!" Ron said. "I heard her talking to
Professor Vector, that Arithmancy witch, this morning. They were going
on about yesterday
t 
s never missed a Muggle Studies class, but half of them are at the
same time as Divination, and she


Harry didn't have time to fathom the mystery of Hermione's impossible
schedule at the moment; he really needed to get on with Snape's essay.
Two seconds later, however, he was interrupted again, this time by Wood.


ve just been to see Professor McGonagall about the
Firebolt. She -- er -- got a bit shirty with me. Told m
d got my
priorities wrong. Seemed to think I cared more about winning the Cup
than I do about you staying alive. Just because I told her I didn
 Wood shook
his head in disbelief. 
d
think I
s severe voice. 
... I reckon it
s an order form at the back
of Which Broomstick... you could get a Nimbus Two Thousand and One, like
Malfoy



m not buying anything Malfoy thinks is good," said Harry flatly.

January faded imperceptibly into February, with no change in the
bitterly cold weather. The match against Ravenclaw was drawing nearer
and nearer, but Harry still hadn
No, Potter, you can't have it back yet,
d even opened his mouth.
"We
ve finished checking it. Now, please stop badgering me."

To make matters even worse, Harry
 voices again.

"You
 said Professor Lupin, sternly
in their fourth week of practice. 
t passing out
anymore, are you?"

I thought a Patronus would -- charge the dementors down or something,"
said Harry dispiritedly. "Make them disappear --"

"The true Patronus does do that," said Lupin. "But you



s harder if there are loads of them," said Harry.

"I have complete confidence in you," said Lupin, smiling. "Here --
you
t
have tried it before --"

He pulled two bottles out of his briefcase.

"Butterbeer!" said Harry, without thinking. "Yeah, I like that stuff!"

Lupin raised an eyebrow.

"Oh -Ron and Hermione brought me some back from Hogsmeade," Harry lied
quickly.

I see," said Lupin, though he still looked slightly suspicious. "Well --
let
m
supposed to take sides, as a teacher... " he added hastily

They drank the butterbeer in silence, until Harry voiced something he
What's under a dementor's hood?
Hmmm... well, the only people who really know are in no condition to
tell us. You see, the dementor lowers its hood only to use its last and
worst weapon.
What's that?
They call it the Dementor's Kiss,
It's what dementors do to those they wish to destroy utterly. I
suppose there must be some kind of mouth under there, because they clamp
their jaws upon the mouth of the victim and -- and suck out his soul.
What -- they kill --?
Oh no,
Much worse than that. You can exist without your
soul, you know, as long as your brain and heart are still working. But
you'll have no sense of self anymore, no memory, no. .. anything.
There's no chance at all of recovery. You'll just exist. As an empty
shell. And your soul is gone forever... lost.
It's the fate that
awaits Sirius Black. It was in the Daily Prophet this morning. The
Ministry have given the dementors permission to perform it if they find
him.
He deserves it,
You think so?
Do you really think anyone deserves
that?
Yes,
For... for some things...
d
overheard about Black in the Three Broomsticks, about Black betraying
his mother and father, but it would have involved revealing that he
t be very
impressed by that. So he finished his butterbeer, thanked Lupin, and
left the History of Magic classroom.

Harry half wished that he hadn
s hood,
the answer had been so horrible, and he was so lost in unpleasant
thoughts of what it would feel like to have your soul sucked out of you
that he walked headlong into Professor McGonagall halfway up the stairs.

"Do watch where you






ve just been looking for you in the Gryffindor common room, Well,
here it is, we
t
seem to be anything wrong with it at all. You


Harry's jaw dropped. She was holding out his Firebolt, and it looked as
magnificent as ever.


 Harry said weakly. 



 said Professor McGonagall, and she was actually smiling. 
ll need to get the feel of it before Saturday
t
you? And Potter -- do try and win, won
ll be out of the
running for the eighth year. in a row, as Professor Snape was kind
enough to remind me only last night...."

Speechless, Harry carried the Firebolt back upstairs toward Gryffindor
Tower. As he turned a corner, he saw Ron dashing toward him, grinning
from ear to ear.

"She gave it to You? Excellent! Listen, can I still have a go on it?
Tomorrow?"

"Yeah... anything," said Harry, his heart lighter than it had been in a
month. "You know what -- we should make up with Hermione.... She was
only trying to help...."

"Yeah, all right," said Ron. "She


They turned into the corridor to Gryffindor Tower and saw Neville
Longbottom, pleading with Sir Cadogan, who seemed to be refusing him
entrance.


 Neville was saying tearfully. 
ve
dropped them somewhere!"

"A likely tale!" roared Sir Cadogan. Then, spotting Harry and Ron: "Good
even, my fine young yeomen! Come clap this loon in irons. He is trying
to force entry to the chambers within!"

"Oh, shut up," said Ron as he and Harry drew level with Neville.

"I
 Neville told them miserably. 
t know what I



 said Harry to Sir Cadogan, who looked extremely
disappointed and reluctantly swung forward to let them into the common
room. There was a sudden, excited murmur as every head turned and the
next moment, Harry was surrounded by people exclaiming over his
Firebolt.


d you get it, Harry?"

"Will you let me have a go?" "Have you ridden it yet, Harry?"

"Ravenclaw
re all on Cleansweep Sevens!"

"Can I just hold it, Harry?"

After ten minutes or so, during which the Firebolt was Passed around and
admired from every angle, the crowd dispersed and Harry and Ron had a
clear view of Hermione, the only person who hadn
I got it back,
See, Hermione? There wasn't anything wrong with it!
Well -- there might have been!
I mean, at least you
know now that it's safe!
Yeah, I suppose so,
Id better put it upstairs.
I'll take it!
I've got to give Scabbers his rat
tonic.
 staircase.

"Can I sit down, then?" Harry asked Hermione.

"I suppose so," said Hermione, moving a great stack of parchment off a
chair.

Harry looked around at the cluttered table, at the long Arithmancy essay
on which the ink was still glistening, at the even longer Muggle Studies
essay ("Explain Why Muggles Need Electricity" and at the rune
translation Hermione was now poring over.

"How are you getting through all this stuff?" Harry asked her.

"Oh, well -- you know -- working hard," said Hermione. Close-up, Harry
saw that she looked almost as tired as Lupin.

"Why don
 Harry asked, watching
her lifting books as she searched for her rune dictionary.


t do that!" said Hermione, looking scandalized.

"Arithmancy looks terrible," said Harry, picking up a very
complicated-looking number chart.

"Oh no, it
 said Hermione earnestly. 
s my favorite
subject! It


But exactly what was wonderful about Arithmancy, Harry never found out.
At that precise moment, a strangled yell echoed down the boys'
staircase. The whole common room fell silent, staring, petrified, at the
entrance. Then came hurried footsteps, growing louder and louder -- and
then Ron came leaping into view, dragging with him a bedsheet.


 he bellowed, striding over to Hermione's table.


 he yelled, shaking the sheets in her face.







Hermione was leaning away from Ron, looking utterly bewildered. Harry
looked down at the sheet Ron was holding. There was something red on it.
Something that looked horribly like --


 Ron yelled into the stunned silence. 
S GONE! AND YOU KNOW
WHAT WAS ON THE FLOOR?"

"N -- no," said Hermione in a trembling voice.

Ron threw something down onto Hermione
s friendship. Each was so
angry with the other that Harry couldn
d ever make up.

Ron was enraged that Hermione had never taken Crookshanks
t bothered to keep a close enough watch on
him, and was still trying to pretend that Crookshanks was innocent by
suggesting that Ron look for Scabbers under all the boys
s head in the Magical
Menagerie.

Personally, Harry was sure that Crookshanks had eaten Scabbers, and when
he tried to point out to Hermione that the evidence all pointed that
way, she lost her temper with Harry too.

"Okay, side with Ron, I knew you would!" she said shrilly. "First the
Firebolt, now Scabbers, everything
t it! just leave me
alone, Harry, I


Ron had taken the loss of his rat very hard indeed.


 said
Fred bracingly. 
s been off-color for ages, he was wasting away.
It was probably better for him to snuff it quickly -- one swallow -- he
probably didn



 said Ginny indignantly.


 said George.


 Ron said miserably. 



s true," said Harry.

"His finest hour," said Fred, unable to keep a straight face. "Let the
scar on Goyle
s
the point of moaning?"

In a last-ditch attempt to cheer Ron up, Harry persuaded him to come
along to the Gryffindor team
d
finished. This did seem to take Ron
Great! Can I try and shoot a few goals on it?
Look at the balance on it! If the Nimbus series has a fault, it's a
slight list to the tail end -- you often find they develop a drag after
a few years. They've updated the handle too, a bit slimmer than the
Cleansweeps, reminds me of the old Silver Arrows -- a Pity they've
stopped making them. I learned to fly on one, and a very fine old broom
it was too....
Er -- Madam
Hooch? Is it okay if Harry has the Firebolt back? We need to
practice....
Oh -- right -- here you are, then, Potter,
I'll sit
over here with Weasley....
s
match.

"Harry, I
s Cho
Chang. She
s pretty good.... I really hoped she
wouldn
s had some problems with injuries...." Wood scowled
his displeasure that Cho Chang had made a full recovery, then said, "On
the other hand, she rides a Comet Two Sixty, which is going to look like
a joke next to the Firebolt." He gave Harry
Okay, everyone, let's go -- 
d ever dreamed. The Firebolt turned with the
lightest touch; it seemed to obey his thoughts rather than his grip; it
sped across the field at such speed that the stadium turned into a
green-and-gray blur; Harry turned it so sharply that Alicia Spinnet
screamed, then he went into a perfectly controlled dive, brushing the
grassy field with his toes before rising thirty, forty, fifty feet into
the air again.

"Harry, I
 Wood called.

Harry turned and raced a Bludger toward the goal posts; he outstripped
it easily, saw the Snitch dart out from behind Wood, and within ten
seconds had caught it tightly in his hand.

The team cheered madly. Harry let the Snitch go again, gave it a
minute's head start, then tore after it, weaving in and out of the
others; he spotted it lurking near Katie Bell's knee, looped her easily,
and caught it again.

It was the best practice ever; the team, inspired by the presence of the
Firebolt in their midst, performed their best moves faultlessly, and by
the time they hit the ground again, Wood didn't have a single criticism
to make, which, as George Weasley pointed out, was a first.


t see what
 said Wood. 
ve sorted out your dementor problem, haven



 said Harry, thinking of his feeble Patronus and wishing it were
stronger.


t turn up again, Oliver. Dumbledore

said Fred confidently.


s hope not," said Wood. "Anyway -- good work, everyone. Let



m staying out for a bit; Ron wants a go on the Firebolt," Harry told
Wood, and while the rest of the team headed off to the locker rooms,
Harry strode over to Ron, who vaulted the barrier to the stands and came
to meet him. Madam Hooch had fallen asleep in her seat.

"Here you go," said Harry, handing Ron the Firebolt.

Ron, an expression of ecstasy on his face, mounted the broom and zoomed
off into the gathering darkness while Harry walked around the edge of
the field, watching him. Night had fallen before Madam Hooch awoke with
a start, told Harry and Ron off for not waking her, and insisted that
they go back to the castle.

Harry shouldered the Firebolt and he and Ron walked out of the shadowy
stadium, discussing the Firebolt
What's the matter?
Lumos!
Get out of here!
See?
She's still
letting him wander about wherever he wants -- probably washing down
Scabbers with a couple of birds now....
t say anything. He took a deep breath as relief seeped
through him; he had been sure for a moment that those eyes had belonged
to the Grim. They set off for the castle once more. slightly ashamed of
his moment of panic, Harry didn
Did you see his face?
He
can't believe it! This is brilliant!
Put it here, Harry,
s Ravenclaw girlfriend,
Penelope Clearwater, asked if she could actually hold the Firebolt.

"Now, now, Penny, no sabotage!" said Percy heartily as she examined the
Firebolt closely. "Penelope and I have got a bet on," he told the team.
"Ten Galleons on the outcome of the match!"

Penelope put the Firebolt down again, thanked Harry, and went back to
her table.

"Harry -- make sure you win," said Percy, in an urgent whisper. "I
haven
m coming, Penny!" And-he bustled off to
join her in a piece of toast.

"Sure you can manage that broom, Potter?" said a cold, drawling voice.

Draco Malfoy had arrived for a closer look, Crabbe and Coyle right
behind him.

"Yeah, reckon so," said Harry casually.

"Got plenty of special features, hasn
 said Malfoy, eyes
glittering maliciously. 
t come with a parachute -- in
case you get too near a dementor."

Crabbe and Goyle sniggered.

"Pity you can
 said Harry. 


The Gryffindor team laughed loudly. Malfoy's pale eyes narrowed, and he
stalked away. They watched him rejoin the rest of the Slytherin team,
who put their heads together, no doubt asking Malfoy whether Harry's
broom really was a Firebolt.

At a quarter to eleven, the Gryffindor team set off for the locker
rooms. The weather couldn't have been more different from their match
against Hufflepuff. It was a clear, cool day with a very light breeze;
there would be no visibility problems this time, and Harry, though
nervous, was starting to feel the excitement only a Quidditch match
could bring. They could hear the rest of the school moving into the
stadium beyond. Harry took off his black school robes, removed his wand
from his pocket, and stuck it inside the T-shirt he was going to wear
under his Quidditch robes. He only hoped he wouldn't need it. He
wondered suddenly whether Professor Lupin was in the crowd, watching.


ve got to do," said Wood as they prepared to leave the
locker rooms. "If we lose this match, we
ll be okay!"

They walked out onto the field to tumultuous applause. The Ravenclaw
team, dressed in blue, were already standing in the middle of the field.
Their Seeker, Cho Chang, was the only girl on their team. She was
shorter than Harry by about a head, and Harry couldn
t think had anything to
do with nerves.

"Wood, Davies, shake hands," Madam Hooch said briskly, and Wood shook
hands with the Ravenclaw Captain.

"Mount your brooms... on my whistle... three -- two -- one --"

Harry kicked off into the air and the Firebolt zoomed higher and faster
than any other broom; he soared around the stadium and began squinting
around for the Snitch, listening all the while to the commentary, which
was being provided by the Weasley twins
They're off, and the big excitement this match is the Firebolt that
Harry Potter is flying for Gryffindor. According to Which Broomstick,
the Firebolt's going to be the broom of choice for the national teams at
this year's World Championship --
Jordan, would you mind telling us what's going on in the match?
s voice.

"Right you are, Professor -- just giving a bit of background information
-- the Firebolt, incidentally, has a built-in auto-brake and --"

"Jordan!"

"Okay, okay, Gryffindor in possession, Katie Bell of Gryffindor, heading
for goal..."

Harry streaked past Katie in the opposite direction, gazing around for a
glint of gold and noticing that Cho Chang was tailing him closely. She
was undoubtedly a very good flier -- she kept cutting across him,
forcing him to change direction.

"Show her your acceleration, Harry!" Fred yelled as he whooshed past in
pursuit of a Bludger that was aiming for Alicia.

Harry urged the Firebolt forward as they rounded the Ravenclaw goal
posts and Cho fell behind. Just as Katie succeeded in scoring the first
goal of the match, and the Gryffindor end of the field went wild, he saw
it -- the Snitch was close to the ground, flitting near one of the
barriers.

Harry dived; Cho saw what he was doing and tore after him -- Harry was
speeding up, excitement flooding him; dives were his speciality, he was
ten feet away --

Then a Bludger, hit by one of the Ravenclaw Beaters, came pelting out of
nowhere; Harry veered off course, avoiding it by an inch, and in those
few, crucial seconds, the Snitch had vanished.

There was a great "Ooooooh" of disappointment from the Gryffindor
supporters, but much applause for their Beater from the Ravenclaw end.
George Weasley vented his feelings by hitting the second Bludger
directly at the offending Beater, who was forced to roll right over in
midair to avoid it.

"Gryffindor leads by eighty points to zero, and look at that Firebolt
go! Potter
s Comet is just no match for it, the Firebolt





Ravenclaw was pulling back; they had now scored three goals, which put
Gryffindor only fifty points ahead -- if Cho got the Snitch before him,
Ravenclaw would win. Harry dropped lower, narrowly avoiding a Ravenclaw
Chaser, scanning the field frantically -- a glint of gold, a flutter of
tiny wings -- the Snitch was circling the Gryffindor goal post --

Harry accelerated, eyes fixed on the speck of gold ahead -- but just
then, Cho appeared out of thin air, blocking him --


 Wood roared as Harry swerved
to avoid a collision. 


Harry turned and caught sight of Cho; she was grinning. The Snitch had
vanished again. Harry turned his Firebolt upward and was soon twenty
feet above the game. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw Cho following
him.... She'd decided to mark him rather than search for the Snitch
herself... All right, then... if she wanted to tail him, she'd have to
take the consequences....

He dived again, and Cho, thinking he'd seen the Snitch, tried to follow;
Harry pulled out of the dive very sharply; she hurtled downward; he rose
fast as a bullet once more, and then saw it, for the third time -- the
Snitch was glittering way above the field at the Ravenclaw end.

He accelerated; so, many feet below, did Cho. He was winning, gaining on
the Snitch with every second -- then --


 screamed Cho, pointing.

Distracted, Harry looked down.

Three dementors, three tall, black, hooded dementors, were looking up at
him.

He didn't stop to think. Plunging a hand down the neck of his robes, he
whipped out his wand and roared, 


Something silver-white, something enormous, erupted from the end of his
wand. He knew it had shot directly at the dementors but didn't pause to
watch; his mind still miraculously clear, he looked ahead -- he was
nearly there. He stretched out the hand still grasping his wand and just
managed to close his fingers over the small, struggling Snitch.

Madam Hooch's whistle sounded. Harry turned around in midair and saw six
scarlet blurs bearing down on him; next moment, the whole team was
hugging him so hard he was nearly pulled off his broom. Down below he
could hear the roars of the Gryffindors in the crowd.


s my boy!" Wood kept yelling. Alicia, Angelina, and Katie had all
kissed Harry; Fred had him in a grip so tight Harry felt as though his
head would come off In complete disarray, the team managed to make its
way back to the ground. Harry got off his broom and looked up to see a
gaggle of Gryffindor supporters sprinting onto the field, Ron in the
lead. Before he knew it, he had been engulfed by the cheering crowd.

"Yes!" Ron yelled, yanking Harry
Yes! Yes!
Well done, Harry!
Ten Galleons to me!
Must find Penelope, excuse me --
Good for you, Harry!
Ruddy brilliant!
That was quite some Patronus,
s ear.

Harry turned around to see Professor Lupin, who looked both shaken and
pleased.

"The dementors didn
 Harry said excitedly. 
t
feel a thing!"

"That would be because they -- er -- weren
 said Professor
Lupin. 


He led Harry out of the crowd until they were able to see the edge of
the field.


 said Lupin.

Harry stared. Lying in a crumpled heap on the ground were Malfoy,
Crabbe, Goyle, and Marcus Flint, the Slytherin team Captain, all
struggling to remove themselves from long, black, hooded robes. It
looked as though Malfoy had been standing on Goyle's shoulders. Standing
over them, with an expression of the utmost fury on her face, was
Professor McGonagall.


 she was shouting. 


If anything could have set the seal on Gryffindor's victory, it was
this. Ron, who had fought his way through to Harry's side, doubled up
with laughter as they watched Malfoy fighting to extricate himself from
the robe, Goyle's head still stuck inside it.


 said George, fighting his way over. 



 said Harry, and feeling happier than he had in ages, he and the
rest of the team led the way, still in their scarlet robes, out of the
stadium and back up to the castle.

It felt as though they had already won the Quidditch Cup; the party went
on all day and well into the night. Fred and George Weasley disappeared
for a couple of hours and returned with armfuls of bottles of
butterbeer, pumpkin fizz, and several bags full of Honeydukes sweets.


 squealed Angelina Johnson as George started
throwing Peppermint Toads into the crowd.


 Fred
muttered in Harry's ear.

Only one person wasn't joining in the festivities. Hermione, incredibly,
was sitting in a corner, attempting to read an enormous book entitled
Home Life and Social Habits of British Muggles. Harry broke away from
the table where Fred and George had started juggling butterbeer bottles
and went over to her.


 he asked her.


 said Hermione in a strangely high-pitched voice, not
looking up. 
m very glad we won, and I think you did really well,
but I need to read this by Monday."

"Come on, Hermione, come and have some food," Harry said, looking over
at Ron and wondering whether he was in a good enough mood to bury the
hatchet.

"I can
ve still got four hundred and twenty-two pages to
read!" said Hermione, now sounding slightly hysterical. "Anyway..." She
glanced over at Ron too. "He doesn


There was no arguing with this, as Ron chose that moment to say loudly,

t just been eaten, he could have had some of those
Fudge Flies. He used to really like them --"

Hermione burst into tears. Before Harry could say or do anything, she
tucked the enormous book under her arm, and, still sobbing, ran toward
the staircase to the girls
Can't you give her a break?
No,
If she just acted like she was sorry -- but
she'll never admit she's wrong, Hermione. She's still acting like
Scabbers has gone on vacation or something.
AAARRGGHH! NOOO!
d been hit in the face. Disoriented
in the total darkness, he fumbled with his hangings, he could hear
movements around him, and Seamus Finnigan
What's going on?
Black! Sirius Black! With a knife!
What?
Here! Just now! Slashed the curtains! Woke me up!
You sure you weren't dreaming, Ron?
Look at the curtains! I tell you, he was here!
Who shouted?
What're you doing?
Are you sure you weren't dreaming, Ron?
I'm telling you, I saw him!
What's all the noise?
Professor McGonagall told us to go to bed!
Excellent, are we carrying on?
Everyone back upstairs!
Perce -- Sirius Black!
In our dormitory! With a
knife! Woke me up!
Nonsense!
You had too much to eat, Ron
-- had a nightmare --
I'm telling you --
Now, really, enough's enough!
I am delighted that Gryffindor won the match, but this is getting
ridiculous! Percy, I expected better of you!
I certainly didn't authorize this, Professor!
I was just telling them all to get back to bed!
My brother Ron here had a nightmare --
IT WASN'T A NIGHTMARE!
PROFESSOR, I WOKE UP, AND SIRIUS
BLACK WAS STANDING OVER ME, HOLDING A KNIFE!
Don't be ridiculous, Weasley, how could he possibly have gotten through
the portrait hole?
Ask him!
s picture. "Ask him if he saw --"

Glaring suspiciously at Ron, Professor McGonagall pushed the Portrait
back open and went outside. The whole common room listened with bated
breath. "Sir Cadogan, did you just let a man enter Gryffindor Tower?"
"Certainly, good lady!" cried Sir Cadogan.

There was a stunned silence, both inside and outside the common room.

"You -- you did?" said Professor McGonagall. "But -- but the password!"

"He had 
 said Sir Cadogan proudly. 
s, my lady!
Read 


Professor McGonagall pulled herself back through the portrait hole to
face the stunned crowd. She was white as chalk.


 she said, her voice shaking, 
s passwords and left them lying around?"

There was utter silence, broken by the smallest of terrified squeaks.
Neville Longbottom, trembling from head to fluffy slippered toes, raised
his hand slowly into the air.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

SNAPE
t help noticing that the statue of the one-eyed witch on
the third floor remained unguarded and unblocked. It seemed that Fred
and George had been right in thinking that they -- and now Harry, Ron,
and Hermione -- were the only ones who knew about the hidden passageway
within it.

"D
 Harry asked Ron.


s not coming in through Honeyduke
 said Ron dismissively.

d


Harry was glad Ron took this view. If the one-eyed witch was boarded up
too, he would never be able to go into Hogsmeade again.

Ron had become an instant celebrity. For the first time in his life,
people were paying more attention to him than to Harry, and it was clear
that Ron was rather enjoying the experience. Though still severely
shaken by the night's events, he was happy to tell anyone who asked what
had happened, with a wealth of detail.


ve been twelve
inches... and he looked at me, and I looked at him, and then I yelled,
and he scampered.

"Why, though?" Ron added to Harry as the group of secondyear girls who
had been listening to his chilling tale departed. "Why did he run?"

Harry had been wondering the same thing. Why had Black, having got the
wrong bed, not silenced Ron and proceeded to Harry? Black had proved
twelve years ago that he didn
He must've known he'd have a job getting back out of the castle once
you'd yelled and woken people up,
He'd've had
to kill the whole House to get back through the portrait hole... then he
would' ve met the teachers....
s break-in,
she sent Neville the very worst thing a Hogwarts student could receive
over breakfast -- a Howler.

The school owls swooped into the Great Hall carrying the mail as usual,
and Neville choked as a huge barn owl landed in front of him, a scarlet
envelope clutched in its beak. Harry and Ron, who were sitting opposite
him, recognized the letter as a Howler at once -- Ron had got one from
his mother the year before.

"Run for it, Neville," Ron advised.

Neville didn
s grandmother
Ouch! Oh -- thanks, Hedwig.
s cornflakes. The note inside said:

Dear Harry and Ron, How Abut having tea with me this afternoon 
ll come collect you from the castle. WAIT FOR ME IN THE ENTRANCE
HALL; YOU
He probably wants to hear all about Black!
clock that afternoon, Harry and Ron left Gryffindor Tower,
passed the security trolls at a run, and headed down to the entrance
hall.

Hagrid was already waiting for them.

"All right, Hagrid!" said Ron. "S



ve already heard all abou
 said Hagrid, opening the front doors
and leading them outside.


 said Ron, looking slightly put out.

The first thing they saw on entering Hagrid's cabin was Buckbeak, who
was stretched out on top of Hagrid's patchwork quilt, his enormous wings
folded tight to his body, enjoying a large plate of dead ferrets.
Averting his eyes from this unpleasant sight, Harry saw a gigantic,
hairy brown suit and a very horrible yellow-and-orange tie hanging from
the top of Hagrid's wardrobe door.


 said Harry.


 Dangerous
Creatures," said Hagrid. "This Friday. Him an
ll be goin
ve booked two beds on the Knight Bus...."

Harry felt a nasty pang of guilt. He had completely forgotten that
Buckbeak
s
face, he had too. They had also forgotten their promise about helping
him prepare Buckbeak
s cooking.

I got somethin
 said Hagrid, sitting himself
between them and looking uncharacteristically serious.


 said Harry.


 said Hagrid.


 said Ron.


s in a righ
s what. She
 down ter visit me
a lot since Chris
 lonely. Firs
 talking to
her because o
 to her because her cat
--"

"-- ate Scabbers!" Ron interjected angrily.

"Because her cat acted like all cats do," Hagrid continued doggedly.
"She
 through a rough time at
the moment. Bitten off more
s tryin
s case,
mind.... She
ll stand
a good chance now..."

"Hagrid, we should
 Harry began awkwardly.


m not blamin
 said Hagrid, waving Harry's apology aside. 
ve had enough ter be gettin
ve seen yeh practicin
ry hour o
 night -- but I gotta tell yeh, I
thought you two
n broomsticks or rats. Tha


Harry and Ron exchanged uncomfortable looks.


s got
her heart in the right place, Hermione has, an
 to
her --"

"If she
d speak to her again!" Ron said
angrily. "But she
s a maniac, and she
won



 their pets," said Hagrid
wisely. Behind him, Buckbeak spat a few ferret bones onto Hagrid
s improved
chances for the Quidditch Cup. At nine o
Hogsmeade, next weekend!
What d'you reckon?
Well, Filch hasn't done anything about the passage into Honeydukes....
Harry!
Harry, if you go into Hogsmeade again... I'll tell Professor McGonagall
about that map!
Can you hear someone talking, Harry?
Ron, how can you let him go with you? After what Sirius Black nearly
did to you! I mean it, I'll tell --
So now you're trying to get Harry expelled!
Haven't you done enough damage this year?
s face, gathered up Crookshanks, and hurried away toward the
girls
So how about it?
Come on, last time we went you didn't see anything. You
haven't even been inside Zonko's yet!
Okay,
But I'm taking the Invisibility Cloak this time.
s Map into his pocket, and went down to breakfast
with everyone else. Hermione kept shooting suspicious looks down the
table at him, but he avoided her eye and was careful to let her see him
walking back up the marble staircase in the entrance hall as everybody
else proceeded to the front doors.

"
 Harry called to Ron. 


Ron grinned and winked.

Harry hurried up to the third floor, slipping the Marauder's Map out of
his pocket as he went. Crouching behind the one-eyed witch, he smoothed
it out. A tiny dot was moving in his direction. Harry squinted at it.
The minuscule writing next to it read Neville Longbottom.

Harry quickly pulled out his wand, muttered, 
 and shoved
his bag into the statue, but before he could climb in himself, Neville
came around the corner.


t going to Hogsmeade either!"

"Hi, Neville," said Harry, moving swiftly away from the statue and
pushing the map back into his pocket. "What are you up to?"

"Nothing," shrugged Neville. "Want a game of Exploding Snap?"

"Er -- not now -- I was going to go to the library and do that vampire
essay for Lupin --"

"I
 said Neville brightly. I haven't done it either!
Er -- hang on -- yeah, I forgot, I finished it last night!
Great, you can help me!
I don't
understand that thing about the garlic at all -- do they have to eat it,
or --
s shoulder.

It was Snape. Neville took a quick step behind Harry.

"And what are you two doing here?" said Snape, coming to a halt and
looking from one to the other. "An odd place to meet --"

To Harry
s black eyes flicked to the doorways
on either side of them, and then to the one-eyed witch.

"We
 said Harry. 



 said Snape. 


Harry and Neville set off without another word. As they turned the
corner, Harry looked back. Snape was running one of his hands over the
one-eyed witch's head, examining it closely.

Harry managed to shake Neville off at the Fat Lady by telling him the
password, then pretending he'd left his vampire essay in the library and
doubling back. Once out of sight of the security trolls, he pulled out
the map again and held it close to his nose.

The third floor corridor seemed to be deserted. Harry scanned the map
carefully and saw, with a leap of relief, that the tiny dot labeled
Severus Snape was now back in its office.

He sprinted back to the one-eyed witch, opened her hump, heaved himself
inside, and slid down to meet his bag at the bottom of the stone chute.
He wiped the Marauder's Map blank again, then set off at a run.

Harry, completely hidden beneath the Invisibility Cloak, emerged into
the sunlight outside Honeydukes and prodded Ron in the back.

It's me,
What kept you?
Snape was hanging around.
Where are you?
Are
you still there? This feels weird....
Local Deliveries
Only
s
hand.

Then they visited Zonko
s and George
s with their money bags considerably
lighter than they had been on entering, but their pockets bulging with
Dungbombs, Hiccup Sweets, Frog Spawn Soap, and a Nose-Biting Teacup
apiece.

The day was fine and breezy, and neither of them felt like staying
indoors, so they walked past the Three Broomsticks and climbed a slope
to visit the Shrieking Shack, the most haunted dwelling in Britain. It
stood a little way above the rest of the village, and even in daylight
was slightly creepy, with its boarded windows and dank overgrown garden.

"Even the Hogwarts ghosts avoid it," said Ron as they leaned on the
fence, looking up at it. "I asked Nearly Headless Nick... he says he


Harry, feeling hot from their climb, was just considering taking off the
cloak for a few minutes when they heard voices nearby. Someone was
climbing toward the house from the other side of the hill; moments
later, Malfoy had appeared, followed closely by Crabbe and Goyle. Malfoy
was speaking.


t use it for
three months...."

Crabbe and Goyle sniggered.

"I really wish I could hear that great hairy moron trying to defend
himself... 
s no 
im, 
s as good as
dead --"

Malfoy suddenly caught sight of Ron. His pale face split in a malevolent
grin.

"What are you doing, Weasley?"

Malfoy looked up at the crumbling house behind Ron.

"Suppose You
t you, Weasley? Dreaming about
having your own bedroom? I heard your family all sleep in one room -- is
that true?"

Harry seized the back of Ron
Leave him to me,
s ear.

The opportunity was too perfect to miss. Harry crept silently around
behind Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle, bent down, and scooped a large handful
of mud out of the path.

"We were just discussing your friend Hagrid," Malfoy said to Ron. "Just
trying to imagine what he
you think he
s

SPLAT.

Malfoy
What the --?
What was that? 'Who did that?
Very haunted up here, isn't it?
It came from over there!
s
back. Harry doubled up with silent laughter as Crabbe did a kind of
pirouette in midair, trying to see who had thrown it. As Ron was the
only person Crabbe could see, it was Ron he started toward, but Harry
stuck out his leg. Crabbe stumbled -- and his huge, flat foot caught the
hem of Harry
AAARGH!
s head. Then he turned tail and
ran, at breakneck speed, back down the hill, Crabbe and Goyle behind
him.

Harry tugged the cloak up again, but the damage was done.

"Harry!" Ron said, stumbling forward and staring hopelessly at the point
where Harry had disappeared, "you
d better get back to the castle, quick --" "See you
later," said Harry, and without another word, he tore back down the path
toward Hogsmeade.

Would Malfoy believe what he had seen? Would anyone believe

Malfoy? Nobody knew about the Invisibility Cloak -- nobody except
Dumbledore. Harry
t slow down until he reached the
stone slide. He would have to leave the cloak where it was, it was too
much of a giveaway in case Malfoy had tipped off a teacher -- he hid it
in a shadowy corner, then started to climb, fast as he could, his sweaty
hands slipping on the sides of the chute. He reached the inside of the
witch
So,
Come with me, Potter,
s office.

Harry had been in here only once before, and he had been in very serious
trouble then too. Snape had aquired a few more slimy horrible things in
jars since last time, all standing on shelves behind his desk, glinting
in the firelight and adding to the threatening atmosphere.

"Sit," said Snape.

Harry sat. Snape, however, remained, standing.

"Mr. Malfoy has just been to see me with a strange story, Potter," said
Snape.

Harry didn
He tells me that he was up by the Shrieking Shack when he ran into
Weasley -- apparently alone.
t speak.

"Mr. Malfoy states that he was standing talking to Weasley, when a large
amount of mud hit him in the back of the head. How do you think that
could have happened?"

Harry tried to look mildly surprised.

"I don


Snape's eyes were boring into Harry's. It was exactly like trying to
stare down a hippogriff. Harry tried hard not to blink.





 said Harry, now trying to sound innocently curious.




There was a long silence.


d better go to Madam Pomfrey," said Harry. "If he



 said Snape
softly. 



 said Harry, striving to keep his face free of guilt or
fear. 
s having hallucin --"

"Malfoy is not having hallucinations," snarled Snape, and he bent down,
a hand on each arm of Harry
If your head was in Hogsmeade, so was the rest of you.
I've been up in Gryffindor Tower,
Like you told --
Can
anyone confirm that?
t say anything. Snape
So,
Everyone from the Minister of
Magic downward has been trying to keep famous Harry Potter safe from
Sirius Black. But famous Harry Potter is a law unto himself Let the
ordinary people worry about his safety! Famous Harry Potter goes where
he wants to, with no thought for the consequences.

Harry stayed silent. Snape was trying to provoke him into telling the
truth. He wasn't going to do it. Snape had no proof -- yet.


 Snape said
suddenly, his eyes glinting. 



t strut," said Harry, before he could stop himself. "And
neither do I."

"Your father didn
 Snape went on,
pressing his advantage, his thin face full of malice. 





Harry was suddenly on his feet. Rage such as he had not felt since his
last night in Privet Drive was coursing through him. He didn't care that
Snape's face had gone rigid, the black eyes flashing dangerously.





 Harry yelled. I know the truth,
all right? He saved your life! Dumbledore told me! You wouldn't even be
here if it wasn't for my dad!
s sallow skin had gone the color of sour milk.

"And did the headmaster tell you the circumstances in which your father
saved my life?" he whispered. "Or did he consider the details too
unpleasant for precious Potter


Harry bit his lip. He didn't know what had happened and didn't want to
admit it -- but Snape seemed to have guessed the truth.

I would hate for you to run away with a false idea of your father,
Potter,
Have you been
imagining some act of glorious heroism? Then let me correct you -- your
saintly father and his friends played a highly amusing joke on me that
would have resulted in my death if your father hadn't got cold feet at
the last moment. There was nothing brave about what he did. He was
saving his own skin as much as mine. Had their joke succeeded, he would
have been expelled from Hogwarts.
s uneven, yellowish teeth were bared.

"Turn out your pockets, Potter!" he spat suddenly.

Harry didn
Turn out your pockets, or we go straight to the headmaster! Pull them
out, Potter!
s tricks and
the Marauder
s bag.

"Ron gave them to me," said Harry, praying he
He -brought them back from Hogsmeade last
time --
Indeed? And you've been carrying them around ever since? How very
touching... and what is this?
Spare bit of parchment,
Surely you don't need such a very old piece of parchment?
Why don't I just -- throw this away?
No!
So!
Is this another
treasured gift from Mr. Weasley? Or is it -- something else? A letter,
perhaps, written in invisible ink? Or -- instructions to get into
Hogsmeade without passing the dementors?
s eyes gleamed.

"Let me see, let me see...." he muttered, taking out his wand and
smoothing the map out on his desk. "Reveal your secret!" he said,
touching the wand to the parchment.

Nothing happened. Harry clenched his hands to stop them from shaking.

"Show yourself!" Snape said, tapping the map sharply.

It stayed blank. Harry was taking deep, calming breaths.

"Professor Severus Snape, master of this school, commands you to yield
the information you conceal!" Snape said, hitting the map with his wand.

As though an invisible hand were writing upon it, words appeared on the
smooth surface of the map.

Mooney presents his compliments to Professor Snape, and begs him to keep
his abnormally large nose out of other people


Snape froze. Harry stared, dumbstruck, at the message. But the map
didn't stop there. More writing was appearing beneath the first.




It would have been very funny if the situation hadn't been so serious.
And there was more....




Harry closed his eyes in horror. When he'd opened them, the map had had
its last word.




Harry waited for the blow to fall.


 said Snape softly. 
ll see about this...."

He strode across to his fire, seized a fistful of glittering powder from
a jar on the fireplace, and threw it into the flames.

"Lupin!" Snape called into the fire. "I want a word!"

Utterly bewildered, Harry stared at the fire. A large shape had appeared
in it, revolving very fast. Seconds later, Professor Lupin was
clambering out of the fireplace, brushing ash off his shabby robes.

"You called, Severus?" said Lupin mildly.

"I certainly did," said Snape, his face contorted with fury as he strode
back to his desk. "I have just asked Potter to empty his pockets. He was
carrying this."

Snape pointed at the parchment, on which the words of Messrs. Moony,
Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs were still shining. An odd, closed
expression appeared on Lupin
Well?
Well?
This parchment is plainly full of Dark Magic.
This is supposed to be your area of expertise, Lupin. Where do you
imagine Potter got such a thing?
s direction,
warned him not to interrupt.

"Full of Dark Magic?" he repeated mildly. "Do you really think so,
Severus? It looks to me as though it is merely a piece of parchment that
insults anybody who reads it. Childish, but surely not dangerous? I
imagine Harry got it from a joke shop --"

"Indeed?" said Snape. His jaw had gone rigid with anger. "You think a
joke shop could supply him with such a thing? You don


Harry didn't understand what Snape was talking about. Nor, apparently,
did Lupin.


 he said. 



 said Harry quickly.


 said Lupin, turning back to Snape. 


Right on cue, Ron came bursting into the office. He was completely out
of breath, and stopped just short of Snape's desk, clutching the stitch
in his chest and trying to speak.


 he choked. 
s... ages -- ago..."

"Well!" said Lupin, clapping his hands together and looking around
cheerfully. "That seems to clear that up! Severus, I
 He folded the map and tucked it inside his robes. 


Harry didn't dare look at Snape as they left his office. He. Ron, and
Lupin walked all the way back into the entrance hall before speaking.
Then Harry turned to Lupin.





t want to hear explanations," said Lupin shortly. He glanced
around the empty entrance hall and lowered his voice. "I happen to know
that this map was confiscated by Mr. Filch many years ago. Yes, I know
it
 he said as Harry and Ron looked amazed. 
t want to
know how it fell into your possession. I am, however, astounded that you
didn
t let
you have it back, Harry."

Harry had expected that, and was too keen for explanations to protest.

"Why did Snape think I



 Lupin hesitated, 
d think it extremely
entertaining."

"Do you know them?" said Harry, impressed.

"We
 he said shortly. He was looking at Harry more seriously
than ever before.


t expect me to cover up for you again, Harry. I cannot make you
take Sirius Black seriously. But I would have thought that what you have
heard when the dementors draw near you would have had more of an effect
on you. Your parents gave their lives to keep you alive, Harry. A poor
way to repay them -- gambling their sacrifice for a bag of magic
tricks."

He walked away, leaving Harry feeling worse by far than he had at any
point in Snape
t dare go and
get it.

"It
 said Ron abruptly. 
s
right, it was stupid, we shouldn
ve done it --"

He broke off; they reached the corridor where the security trolls were
pacing, and Hermione was walking toward them. One look at her face
convinced Harry that she had heard what had happened. His heart
plummeted -- had she told Professor McGonagall?

"Come to have a good gloat?" said Ron savagely as she stopped in front
of them. "Or have you just been to tell on us?"

"No," said Hermione. She was holding a letter in her hands and her lip
was trembling. "I just thought you ought to know... Hagrid lost his
case. Buckbeak is going to be executed."

CHAPTER FIFTEEN

THE QUIDDITCH FINAL

He sent me this," Hermione said, holding out the letter.

Harry took it. The parchment was damp, and enormous teardrops had
smudged the ink so badly in places that it was very difficult to read.

Dear Hermione, We lost. I
t forget all
the help you gave us.

Hagrid

"They can
 said Harry. 
t. Buckbeak isn



s dad
 said Hermione, wiping
her eyes. 
s like. They
ll be an appeal, though, there always
is. Only I can



 said Ron fiercely. 
t have to do all the work
alone this time, Hermione. I





Hermione flung her arms around Ron's neck and broke down completely.
Ron, looking quite terrified, patted her very awkwardly on the top of
the head. Finally, Hermione drew away.


m really, really sorry about Scabbers..." she sobbed.

"Oh -- well -- he was old," said Ron, looking thoroughly relieved that
she had let go of him. "And he was a bit useless. You never know, Mum
and Dad might get me an owl now."

The safety measures imposed on the students since Black
S'all my fault. Got all tongue-tied. They was all sittin' there in
black robes an' I kep' droppin' me notes and forgettin' all them dates
yeh looked up fer me, Hermione. An' then Lucius Malfoy stood up an' said
his bit, and the Committee jus' did exac'ly what he told 'em....
There's still the appeal!
Don't give up Yet, we're
working on it!
S'no good, Ron,
That Committee's in Lucius Malfoy's pocket. I'm jus' gonna make sure
the rest o' Beaky's time is the happiest he's ever had. I owe him
that....
Look at him blubber!
Have you ever seen anything quite as pathetic?
And he's
supposed to be our teacher!
Don't you dare call Hagrid pathetic, you foul -- you evil --
Hermione!
Get off, Ron!
C'mon,
Hermione!
Harry, you'd better beat him in the Quidditch final!
You just better had, because I can't stand it if Slytherin
wins!
We're due in Charms,
We'd
better go.
s
classroom.

"You
 said Professor Flitwick reprovingly as Harry opened
the classroom door. 
re experimenting
with Cheering Charms today, we


Harry and Ron hurried to a desk at the back and opened their bags. Ron
looked behind him.


s Hermione gone?"

Harry looked around too. Hermione hadn
That's weird,
Maybe -- maybe she went to
the bathroom or something?
t turn up all lesson.

"She could
 said Ron as the
class left for lunch, all grinning broadly -- the Cheering Charms had
left them with a feeling of great contentment.

Hermione wasn't at lunch either. By the time they had finished their
apple pie, the after-effects of the Cheering Charms were wearing off,
and Harry and Ron had started to get slightly worried.


t think Malfoy did something to her?" Ron said anxiously as
they hurried upstairs toward Gryffindor Tower.

They passed the security trolls, gave the Fat Lady the password
("Flibbertigibbet"), and scrambled through the portrait hole into the
common room.

Hermione was sitting at a table, fast asleep, her head resting on an
open Arithmancy book. They went to sit down on either side of her. Harry
prodded her awake.

"Wh -- what?" said Hermione, waking with a start and staring wildly
around. "Is it time to go? W -- which lesson have we got now?"

"Divination, but it
 said Harry.

t you come to Charms?"

"What? Oh no!" Hermione squeaked. "I forgot to go to Charms!"

"But how could you forget?" said Harry. "You were with us till we were
right outside the classroom!"

"I don
 Hermione wailed. 



 said Ron, looking down at the enormous
Arithmancy book Hermione had been using as a pillow. 
re
cracking up. You



m not!" said Hermione, brushing her hair out of her eyes and
staring hopelessly around for her bag. "I just made a mistake, that
d better go and see Professor Flitwick and say sorry... I


Hermione joined them at the foot of the ladder to Professor Trelawneys
classroom twenty minutes later, looking extremely harrassed.


t believe I missed Cheering Charms! And I bet they come up in our
exams; Professor Flitwick hinted they might!"

Together they climbed the ladder into the dim, stifling tower room.
Glowing on every little table was a crystal ball full of pearly white
mist. Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat down together at the same rickety
table.

"I thought we weren
 Ron
muttered, casting a wary eye around for Professor Trelawney, in case she
was lurking nearby.


t complain, this means we
 Harry muttered
back. 



 said the familiar, misty voice, and Professor
Trelawney made her usual dramatic entrance out of the shadows. Parvati
and Lavender quivered with excitement, their faces lit by the milky glow
of their crystal ball.


 said Professor Trelawney, sitting with her back to the
fire and gazing around. 


Hermione snorted.


the fates have informed her
 she said, not troubling to keep her
voice low. Harry and Ron choked back laughs.

It was hard to tell whether Professor Trelawney had heard them as her
face was hidden in shadow. She continued, however, as though she had
not.


 she said dreamily. 
s infinite
depths. We shall start by practicing relaxing the conscious mind and
external eyes" -- Ron began to snigger uncontrollably and had to stuff
his fist in his mouth to stifle the noise -- "so as to clear the Inner
Eye and the superconscious. Perhaps, if we are lucky, some of you will
see before the end of the class."

And so they began. Harry, at least, felt extremely foolish, staring
blankly at the crystal ball, trying to keep his mind empty when thoughts
such as "this is stupid" kept drifting across it. It didn
Seen anything yet?
s quiet
crystal gazing.

"Yeah, there
 said Ron, pointing. 
s
spilled their candle."

"This is such a waste of time," Hermione hissed. "I could be practicing
something useful. I could be catching up on Cheering Charms --"

Professor Trelawney rustled past.

"Would anyone like me to help them interpret the shadowy portents within
their Orb?" she murmured over the clinking of her bangles.

I don
 Ron whispered. 
s obvious what this means.
There


Both Harry and Hermione burst out laughing.


 said Professor Trelawney as everyone's heads turned in
their direction. Parvati and Lavender were looking scandalized. 
 She approached their table and
peered into their crystal ball. Harry felt his heart sinking. He was
sure he knew what was coming --


 Professor Trelawney whispered, lowerng her
face to the ball, so that it was reflected twice in her huge glasses.



Harry was prepared to bet everything he owned, Including his Firebolt,
that it wasn't good news, whatever it was. And sure enough --


It is here,
plainer than ever before... my dear, stalking toward you, growing ever
closer... the Gr --
Oh, for goodness' sake!
Not that ridiculous
Grim again!
s face. Parvati
whispered something to Lavender, and they both glared at Hermione too.
Professor Trelawney stood up, surveying Hermione with unmistakable
anger.

"I am sorry to say that from the moment you have arrived in this class
my dear, it has been apparent that you do not have what the noble art of
Divination requires. Indeed, I don


There was a moment's silence. Then --


 said Hermione suddenly, getting up and cramming Unfogging the
Future back into her bag. 
 she repeated, swinging the bag over
her shoulder and almost knocking Ron off his chair. 
m
leaving!"

And to the whole class
s table, breathing rather heavily as she
tugged her gauzy shawl more closely to her.

"Ooooo!" said Lavender suddenly, making everyone start. "Ooooo,
Professor Trelawney, I
t
you? Didn
Around Easter, one of our number will leave
us forever!


Professor Trelawney gave her a dewy smile.




Lavender and Parvati looked deeply impressed, and moved over so that
Professor Trelawney could join their table instead.


s having, eh?" Ron muttered to Harry, looking awed.

"Yeah..."

Harry glanced into the crystal ball but saw nothing but swirling white
mist. Had Professor Trelawney really seen the Grim again? Would he? The
last thing he needed was another near-fatal accident, with the Quidditch
final drawing ever nearer.

The Easter holidays were not exactly relaxing. The third years had never
had so much homework. Neville Longbottom seemed close to a nervous
collapse, and he wasn
Call this a holiday!
The exams are ages away, what're they playing at?
s under her eyes, and seemed
constantly close to tears.

Ron had taken over responsibility for Buckbeak
t
doing his own work, he was poring over enormously thick volumes with
names like The Handbook of Hippogriff Psychology and Fowl or Foul? A
Study of Hippogriff Brutality. He was so absorbed, he even forgot to be
horrible to Crookshanks.

Harry, meanwhile, had to fit in his homework around Quidditch practice
every day, not to mention endless discussions of tactics with Wood. The
Gryffindor-Slytherin match would take place on the first Saturday after
the Easter holidays. Slytherin was leading the tournament by exactly two
hundred points. This meant (as Wood constantly reminded his team) that
they needed to win the match by more than that amount to win the Cup. It
also meant that the burden of winning fell largely on Harry, because
capturing the Snitch was worth one hundred and fifty points.

"So you must catch it only if we
 Wood
told Harry constantly. 
re more than fifty points up, Harry,
or we win the match but lose the Cup. You
t you? You
must catch the Snitch only if we



 Harry yelled.

The whole of Gryffindor House was obsessed with the coming match.
Gryffindor hadn't won the Quidditch Cup since the legendary Charlie
Weasley (Ron's second oldest brother) had been seeker. But Harry doubted
whether any of them, even Wood, wanted to win as much as he did. The
enmity between Harry and Malfoy was at its highest point ever. Malfoy
was still smarting ,bout the mud-throwing incident in Hogsmeade and was
even more furious that Harry had somehow wormed his way out of
punishment. Harry hadn't forgotten Malfoy's attempt to sabotage him in
the match against Ravenclaw, but it was the matter of Buckbeak that made
him most determined to beat Malfoy in front of the entire school.

Never, in anyone's memory, had a match approached in such a highly
charged atmosphere. By the time the holidays were over, tension between
the two teams and their Houses was at the breaking point. A number of
small scuffles broke out in the corridors, culminating in a nasty
incident in which a Gryffindor fourth year and a Slytherin sixth year
ended up in the hospital wing with leeks sprouting out of their ears.

Harry was having a particularly bad time of it. He couldn't walk to
class without Slytherins sticking out their legs and trying to trip him
up; Crabbe and Goyle kept popping up wherever he went, and slouching
away looking disappointed when they saw him surrounded by people. Wood
had given instructions that Harry should be accompanied everywhere he
went, in case the Slytherins tried to put him out of action. The whole
of Gryffindor House took up the challenge enthusiastically, so that it
was impossible for Harry to get to classes on time because he was
surrounded by a vast, chattering crowd. Harry was more concerned for his
Firebolt's safety than his own. When he wasn't flying it, he locked it
securely in his trunk and frequently dashed back up to Gryffindor Tower
at break times to check that it was still there.

All usual pursuits were abandoned in the Gryffindor common room the
night before the match. Even Hermione had Put down her books.


t work, I can
 she said nervously.

There was a great deal of noise. Fred and George Weasley were dealing
with the pressure by being louder and more exuberant than ever. Oliver
Wood was crouched over a model of a Quidditch field in the corner,
prodding little figures across it with his wand and muttering to himself
Angelina, Alicia, and Katie were laughing at Fred's and George's jokes.
Harry was sitting with Ron and Hermione, removed from the center of
things, trying not to think about the next day, because every time he
did, he had the horrible sensation that something very large was
fighting to get out of his stomach.


re going to be fine," Hermione told him, though she looked
positively terrified.

"You
 said Ron.


 said Harry, his stomach writhing.

It came as a relief when Wood suddenly stood up and yelled, 


Harry slept badly. First he dreamed that he had overslept, and that Wood
was yelling, 
 Then he
dreamed that Malfoy and the rest of the Slytherin team arrived for the
match riding dragons. He was flying at breakneck speed, trying to avoid
a spurt of flames from Malfoy's steed's mouth, when he realized he had
forgotten his Firebolt. He fell through the air and woke with a start.

It was a few seconds before Harry remembered that the match hadn't taken
place yet, that he was safe in bed, and that the Slytherin team
definitely wouldn't be allowed to play on dragons. He was feeling very
thirsty. Quietly as he could, he got out of his four-poster and went to
pour himself some water from the silver jug beneath the window.

The grounds were still and quiet. No breath of wind disturbed the
treetops in the Forbidden Forest; the Whomping Willow was motionless and
innocent-looking. It looked as though the conditions for the match would
be perfect.

Harry set down his goblet and was about to turn back to his bed when
something caught his eye. An animal of some kind was prowling across the
silvery lawn.

Harry dashed to his bedside table, snatched up his glasses, and put them
on, then hurried back to the window. It couldn't be the Grim -- not now
-- not right before the match -

He peered out at the grounds again and, after a minute's frantic
searching, spotted it. It was skirting the edge of the forest now... It
wasn't the Grim at all ... it was a cat.... Harry clutched the window
ledge in relief as he recognized the bottlebrush tail. It was only
Crookshanks....

Or was it only Crookshanks? Harry squinted, pressing his nose flat
against the glass. Crookshanks seemed to have come to a halt. Harry was
sure he could see something else moving in the shadow of the trees too.

And just then, it emerged -- a gigantic, shaggy black dog, moving
stealthily across the lawn, Crookshanks trotting at its side. Harry
stared. What did this mean? If Crookshanks could see the dog as well,
how could it be an omen of Harry's death?


 Harry hissed. 





I need you to tell me if you can see something!
S'all dark, Harry,
What're you or, about?
Down here --
t
there. Where had they gone?

A loud snore told him Ron had fallen asleep again.

Harry and the rest of the Gryffindor team entered the Great Hall the
next day to enormous applause. Harry couldn
Good luck, Harry!
Okay -- no wind to speak of -- sun's a bit bright, that could impair
your vision, watch out for it -- ground's fairly hard, good, that'll
give us a fast kickoff --
Locker rooms,
d eaten
something extremely wriggly for breakfast. In what seemed like no time
at all, Wood was saying, "Okay, it
s go --"

They walked out onto the field to a tidal wave of noise. Threequarters
of the crowd was wearing scarlet rosettes, waving scarlet flags with the
Gryffindor lion upon them, or brandishing banners with slogans like "GO
GRYFFINDOR!" and "LIONS FOR THE CUK
And here are the Gryffindors!
Potter, Bell, Johnson, Spinnet, Weasley, Weasley,
and Wood. Widely acknowledged as the best team Hogwarts has seen in a
good few years --
s comments were drowned by a tide of "boos" from the Slytherin end.

"And here come the Slytherin team, led by Captain Flint. He


More boos from the Slytherin crowd. Harry, however, thought Lee had a
point. Malfoy was easily the smallest person On the Slytherin team; the
rest of them were enormous.


 said Madam Hooch.

Flint and Wood approached each other and grasped each other's hand very
tightly; it looked as though each was trying to break the other's
fingers.


 said Madam Hooch. 


The sound of her whistle was lost in the roar from the crowd as fourteen
brooms rose into the air. Harry felt his hair fly back off his forehead;
his nerves left him in the thrill of the flight; he glanced around, saw
Malfoy on his tail, and sped off in search of the Snitch.


s Gryffindor in possession, Alicia Spinner of Gryffindor with
the Quaffle, heading straight for the Slytherin goal posts, looking
good, Alicia! Argh, no -- Quaffle intercepted by Warrington, Warrington
of Slytherin tearing UP the field -- WHAM! -- nice Bludger work there by
George Weasley, Warrington drops the Quaffle, it
s a Bludger!- SHE SCORES! TEN-ZERO TO
GRYFFINDOR!"

Angelina punched the air as she soared around the end of the field; the
sea of scarlet below was screaming its delight

"OUCH!"

Angelina was nearly thrown from her broom as Marcus Flint went smashing
into her.

"Sorry!" said Flint as the crowd below booed. "Sorry, didn


A moment later, Fred Weasley chucked his Beater's club at the back of
Flint's head. Flint's nose smashed into the handle of his broom and
began to bleed.


 shrieked Madam Hooch, zooming between then. 



 howled Fred, but Madam Hooch blew her whistle and
Alicia flew forward to take the penalty.


 yelled Lee into the silence that had descended on the
crowd. 
S BEATEN THE KEEPER! TWENTY-ZERO TO GRYFFINDOR!"

Harry turned the Firebolt sharply to watch Flint, still bleeding freely,
fly forward to take the Slytherin penalty. Wood was hovering in front of
the Gryffindor goal posts, his jaw clenched.

"
s a superb Keeper!" Lee Jordan told the crowd as Flint
waited for Madam Hooch
Superb! Very difficult to pass --
very difficult indeed -- YES! I DON'T BELIEVE IT! HE'S SAVED IT!
s commentary. It was essential
that he hold Malfoy off the Snitch until Gryffindor was more than fifty
points up --

"Gryffindor in possession, no, Slytherin in possession -- no!

Gryffindor back in possession and it
s streaking up the field -- THAT WAS
DELIBERATE!"

Montague, a Slytherin Chaser, had swerved in front of Katie, and instead
of seizing the Quaffle had grabbed her head. Katie cart wheeled in the
air, managed to stay on her broom, but dropped the Quaffle.

Madam Hooch
THIRTY-ZERO! TAKE THAT, YOU DIRTY, CHEATING --
Jordan, if you can't commentate in an unbiased way --
I'm telling it like it is, Professor!
t catch it yet -- and if Malfoy saw it -

Faking a look of sudden concentration, Harry pulled his Firebolt around
and sped off toward the Slytherin end -- it worked. Malfoy went haring
after him, clearly thinking Harry had seen the Snitch there....

WHOOSH.

One of the Bludgers came streaking past Harry
s elbow. The other Beater, Bole, was
closing in.

Harry had a fleeting glimpse of Bole and Derrick zooming toward him,
clubs raised --

He turned the Firebolt upward at the last second, and Bole and Derrick
collided with a sickening crunch.

"Ha haaa!" yelled Lee Jordan as the Slytherin Beaters lurched away from
each other, clutching their heads. "Too bad, boys! You
s Gryffindor in possession
again, as Johnson takes the Quaffle -- Flint alongside her -- poke him
in the eye, Angelina! -- it was a joke, Professor, it was a joke -- oh
no -- Flint in possession, Flint flying toward the Gryffindor goal
posts, come on now, Wood, save --!"

But Flint had scored; there was an eruption of cheers from the Slytherin
end, and Lee swore so badly that Professor McGonagall tried to tug the
magical megaphone away from him.

"Sorry, Professor, sorry! WoiA happen again! So, Gryffindor in the lead,
thirty points to ten, and Gryffindor in possession --"

it was turning into the dirtiest game Harry had ever played in. Enraged
that Gryffindor had taken such an early lead, the Slytherins were
rapidly resorting to any means to take the Quaffle. Bole hit Alicia with
his club and tried to say he
s and George
YOU DO NOT ATTACK THE KEEPER UNLESS THE QUAFFLE IS WITHIN THE SCORING
AREA!
Gryffindor penalty!
s tail, and was pulling it back.

"You --"

Harry was angry enough to hit Malfoy, but couldn
d wanted to do -- the
Snitch had disappeared again.

"Penalty! Penalty to Gryffindor! I
 Madam
Hooch screeched, shooting up to where Malfoy was sliding back onto his
Nimbus Two Thousand and One.


 Lee Jordan was howling into the megaphone, dancing
out of Professor McGonagall's reach. 


Pprofessor McGonagall didn't even bother to tell him off She was
actually shaking her finger in Malfoys direction, her hat had fallen
off, and she too was shouting furiously.

Alicia took Gryffindor's penalty, but she was so angry she missed by
several feet. The Gryffindor team was losing concentration and the
Slytherins, delighted by Malfoy's foul on Harry, were being spurred on
to greater heights.


 Lee groaned. 


Harry was now marking Malfoy so closely their knees kept hitting each
other. Harry wasn't going to let Malfoy anywhere near the Snitch....


 Malfoy yelled in frustration as he tried to
turn and found Harry blocking him.




Harry looked around. Every single Slytherin player apart from Malfoy was
streaking up the pitch toward Angelina, including the Slytherin Keeper
-- they were all going to block her --

Harry wheeled the Firebolt around, bent so low he was lying flat along
the handle, and kicked it forward. Like a bullet, he shot toward the
Slytherins.




They scattered as the Firebolt zoomed toward them; Angelina's Way was
clear.




Harry, who had almost pelted headlong into the stands, skidded to a halt
in midair, reversed, and zoomed back into the middle of the field.

And then he saw something to make his heart stand still. Malfoy was
diving, a look of triumph on his face -- there, a few feet above the
grass below, was a tiny, golden glimmer -

Harry urged the Firebolt downward, but Malfoy was miles ahead -


 Harry urged his broom. He was gaining on Malfay -- Harry
flattened himself to the broom handle as Bole sent a Bludger at him --
he was at Malfoy's ankles -- he was level --

Harry threw himself forward, took both hands off his broom. He knocked
Malfoy's arm out of the way and --




He pulled out of his dive, his hand in the air, and the stadium
exploded. Harry soared above the crowd, an odd ringing in his ears. The
tiny golden ball was held tight in his fist, beating its wings
hopelessly against his fingers.

Then Wood was speeding toward him, half-blinded by tears; he seized
Harry around the neck and sobbed unrestrainedly into his shoulder. Harry
felt two large thumps as Fred and George hit them; then Angelina's,
Alicia's, and Katie's voices, 
ve won the Cup! We

Tangled together in a many-armed hug, the Gryffindor team sank, yelling
hoarsely, back to earth.

Wave upon wave of crimson supporters was pouring over the barriers onto
the field. Hands were raining down on their backs. Harry had a confused
impression of noise and bodies pressing in on him. Then he, and the rest
of the team, were hoisted onto the shoulders of the crowd. Thrust into
the light, he saw Hagrid, Plastered with crimson rosettes -- 
em, Harry, yeh beat 
 There was Percy, jumping up and down like a
maniac, all dignity forgotten. Professor McGonagall was sobbing harder
even than Wood, wiping her eyes with an enormous Gryffindor flag; and
there, fighting their way toward Harry, were Ron and Hermione. Words
failed them. They simply beamed as Harry was borne toward the stands,
where Dumbledore stood waiting with the enormous Quidditch Cup.

If only there had been a dementor around.... As a sobbing Wood passed
Harry the Cup, as he lifted it into the air, Harry felt he could have
produced the world's best Patronus.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN

PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY'S PREDICTION

Harry's euphoria at finally winning the Quidditch Cup lasted at least a
week. Even the weather seemed to be celebrating; as June approached, the
days became cloudless and sultry, and all anybody felt like doing was
strolling onto the grounds and flopping down on the grass with several
pints of iced pumpkin juice, perhaps playing a casual game of Gobstones
or watching the giant squid propel itself dreamily across the surface of
the lake.

But they couldn't. Exams were nearly upon them, and instead of lazing
around outside, the students were forced to remain inside the castle,
trying to bully their brains into concentrating while enticing wafts of
summer air drifted in through the windows. Even Fred and George Weasley
had been spotted working; they were about to take their O.W.L.s
(Ordinary Wizarding Levels). Percy was getting ready to take his
N.E.W.T.s (Nastily Exhausting Wizarding Tests), the highest
qualification Hogwarts offered. As Percy hoped to enter the Ministry of
Magic, he needed top grades. He was becoming increasingly edgy, and gave
very severe punishments to anybody who disturbed the quiet of the common
room in the evenings. In fact, the only person who seemed more anxious
than Percy was Hermione.

Harry and Ron had given up asking her how she was managing to attend
several classes at once, but they couldn't restrain themselves when they
saw the exam schedule she had drawn up for herself. The first column
read:

Monday

9 o'clock, Arithmancy

9 o'clock, Transfiguration

Lunch

1 o'clock, Charms

1 o'clock, Ancient Runes


 Ron said cautiously, because she was liable to explode when
interrupted these days. 
ve copied down these
times right?"

"What?" snapped Hermione, picking up the exam schedule and examining it.
"Yes, of course I have."

"Is there any point asking how you
 said Harry.


 said Hermione shortly. 



 said Ron, but
very quietly. Hermione started shifting heaps of parchment Harry, Ron,
and Hermione plenty of opportunity to speak to Hagrid.


s gettin
 Hagrid told them, bending low on the
pretense of checking that Harry's flobberworm was still alive. 
ll know day after tomorrow -- one
way or the other --"

They had Potions that afternoon, which was an unqualified disaster. Try
as Harry might, he couldn
s choco-nut sundaes with him in the
stifling classroom. Wednesday afternoon meant Herbology, in the
greenhouses under a baking-hot sun; then back to the common room once
more, with sunburnt necks, thinking longingly of this time next day,
when it would all be over.

Their second to last exam, on Thursday morning, was Defense Against the
Dark Arts. Professor Lupin had compiled the most unusual exam any of
them had ever taken; a sort of obstacle course outside in the sun, where
they had to wade across a deep paddling pool containing a grindylow,
cross a series of potholes full of Red Caps, squish their way across a
patch of marsh while ignoring misleading directions from a hinkypunk,
then climb into an old trunk and battle with a new boggart.

"Excellent, Harry," Lupin muttered as Harry climbed out of the trunk,
grinning. "Full marks."

Flushed with his success, Harry hung around to watch Ron and Hermione.
Ron did very well until he reached the hinkypunk, which successfully
confused him into sinking waist-high into the quagmire. Hermione did
everything perfectly until she reached the trunk with the boggart in it.
After about a minute inside it, she burst out again, screaming.

"Hermione!" said Lupin, startled. "What



 Hermione gasped, pointing into the
trunk. 
d failed everything!"

It took a little while to calm Hermione down. When at last she had
regained a grip on herself, she, Harry, and Ron went back to the castle.
Ron was still slightly inclined to laugh at Hermione
Hello there, Harry!
Just had an exam, I expect? Nearly
finished?
Yes,
Lovely day,
Pity... pity...
I'm here on an unpleasant mission, Harry. The Committee for the
Disposal of Dangerous Creatures required a witness to the execution of a
mad hippogriff. As I needed to visit Hogwarts to check on the Black
situation, I was asked to step in.
Does that mean the appeal's already happened?
No, no, it's scheduled for this afternoon,
Then you might not have to witness an execution at A!
The hippogriff might get off!
s cabin and said in a feeble voice, "Dear, dear, I
clock, isn


The black-mustached man was fingering something in his belt; Harry
looked and saw that he was running one broad thumb along the blade of a
shining axe. Ron opened his mouth to say something, but Hermione nudged
him hard in the ribs and jerked her head toward the entrance hall.


d you stop me?" said Ron angrily as they entered the Great Hall for
lunch. "Did you see them? They
t
justice!"

"Ron, your dad works for the Ministry, you can
 said Hermione, but she too looked very upset. 
t possibly execute Buckbeak...."

But Harry could tell Hermione didn
t join
in.

Harry
s last exam was Divination; Hermione
s classroom, trying to cram in a bit of last-minute
studying.

"She
 Neville informed them as they went to
sit down next to him. He had his copy of Unfogging the Future open on
his lap at the pages devoted to crystal gazing. 
 he asked them unhappily.


 said Ron in an offhand voice. He kept checking his watch; Harry.
knew that he was counting down the time until Buckbeak's appeal started.

The line of people outside the classroom shortened very slowly. As each
person climbed back down the silver ladder, the rest of the class
hissed, 


But they all refused to say.


s told her that if I tell you, I
 squeaked Neville as he clambered back down the
ladder toward Harry and Ron, who had now reached the landing.


s convenient," snorted Ron. "You know, I
 -- he jabbed his thumb toward the trapdoor
overhead -- 
s a right old fraud."

"Yeah," said Harry, looking at his own watch. It-was now two o
Wish she'd hurry up...
She says I've got all the makings of a true Seer,
I saw loads of stuff... Well, good luck!
Ronald Weasley,
s large feet reappeared on the
ladder.

"How
 Harry asked him, standing up.


 said Ron. 
t see a thing, so I made some stuff up.
Don



 Harry muttered as Professor Trelawney's
voice called, 


The tower room was hotter than ever before; the curtains were closed,
the fire was alight, and the usual sickly scent made Harry cough as he
stumbled through the clutter of chairs and table to where Professor
Trelawney sat waiting for him before a large crystal ball.


 she said softly. 


Harry bent over the crystal ball and stared, stared as hard as he could,
willing it to show him something other than swirling white fog, but
nothing happened.


 Professor Trelawney prompted delicately. 


The heat was overpowering and his nostrils were stinging with the
perfumed smoke wafting from the fire beside them. He thought of what Ron
had just said, and decided to pretend.


 said Harry, 



 whispered Professor Trelawney. 


Harry cast his mind around and it landed on Buckbeak.


 he said firmly.


 whispered Professor Trelawney, scribbling keenly on the
parchment perched upon her knees. 
s trouble with the Ministry of Magic! Look
closer... Does the hippogriff appear to... have its head?"

"Yes," said Harry firmly.

"Are you sure?" Professor Trelawney urged him. "Are you quite sure,
dear? You don



 said Harry, starting to feel slightly sick.





 said Harry again, wanting more than ever to leave the room and the
heat. 
s - - flying away..."

Professor Trelawney sighed.

"Well, dear, I think we
m sure you did your best."

Relieved, Harry got up, picked up his bag and turned to go, but then a
loud, harsh voice spoke behind him.

"IT WILL HAPPEN TONIGHT."

Harry wheeled around. Professor Trelawney had gone rigid in her
armchair; her eyes were unfocused and her mouth sagging.

"S -- sorry?" said Harry.

But Professor Trelawney didn
THE DARK LORD LIES ALONE AND FRIENDLESS, ABANDONED BY HIS FOLLOWERS.
HIS SERVANT HAS BEEN CHAINED THESE TWELVE YEARS. TONIGHT, BEFORE
MIDNIGHT... THE SERVANT WILL BREAK FREE AND SET OUT TO REJOIN HIS
MASTER. THE DARK LORD WILL RISE AGAIN WITH HIS SERVANTS AID, GREATER AND
MORE TERRIBLE THAN EVER HE WAS. TONIGHT... BEFORE MIDNIGHT... THE
SERVANT... WILL SET OU... TO REJOIN... HIS MASTER....

Professor Trelawney's head fell forward onto her chest. She made a
grunting sort of noise. Harry sat there, staring at her. Then, quite
suddenly, Professor Trelawney's head snapped up again.


m so sorry, dear boy," she said dreamily, "the heat of the day, you
know... I drifted off for a moment...."

Harry sat there, staring at her.

"Is there anything wrong, my dear?"

"You -- you just told me that the -- the Dark Lord
s going to go back to him.

Professor Trelawney looked thoroughly startled.

"The Dark Lord? He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named? My dear boy, that


,'But you just said it! You. said the Dark Lord --
I think you must have dozed off too, dear!
I would certainly not presume to predict anything quite as far-fetched
as that!
s words still
resounding in his head. People were striding past him in the opposite
direction, laughing and joking, heading for the grounds and a bit of
long-awaited freedom; by the time he had reached the portrait hole and
entered the common room, it was almost deserted. Over in the corner,
however, sat Ron and Hermione.

"Professor Trelawney," Harry panted, "just told me --"

But he stopped abruptly at the sight of their faces.

"Buckbeak lost," said Ron weakly. "Hagrid


Hagrid's note was dry this time, no tears had splattered it, yet his
hand seemed to have shaken so much as he wrote that it was hardly
legible.

Lost appeal. They're going to execute at sunset. Nothing you can do.
Don't come down. I don't want you to see it.

Hagrid


ve got to go," said Harry at once. "He can



 said Ron, who was staring out the window ill a glazed
sort of way. 
d never be allowed... 


Harry sank his head into his hands, thinking.





 said Hermione.

Harry told her about leaving it in the passageway under the one-eyed
witch.


m in serious
trouble," he finished.

"That
 said Hermione, getting to her feet. 
s hump again?"

"You -- you tap it and say, 
" said Harry. "But --"

Hermione didn
s portrait and vanished from sight.

"She hasn
 Ron said, staring after her.

She had. Hermione returned a quarter of an hour later with the silvery
cloak folded carefully under her robes.


t know what
 said Ron,
astounded. 


Hermione looked rather flattered.

They went down to dinner with everybody else, but did not return to
Gryffindor Tower afterward. Harry had the cloak hidden down tie front of
his robes; he had to keep his arms folded to hide the lump. They skulked
in an empty chamber off the entrance hall, listening, until they were
sure it was deserted. They heard a last pair of people hurrying across
the hall and a door slamming. Hermione poked her head around the door.


 she whispered, 


Walking very close together so that nobody would see them, they crossed
the hall on tiptoe beneath the cloak, then walked down the stone front
steps into the grounds. The sun was already sinking behind the Forbidden
Forest, gilding the top branches of the trees.

They reached Hagrid's cabin and knocked. He was a minute in answering,
and when he did, he looked all around for his visitor, pale-faced and
trembling.


s us," Harry hissed. "We



ve come!" Hagrid whispered, but he stood back, and they
stepped inside. Hagrid shut the door quickly and Harry pulled off the
cloak.

Hagrid was not crying, nor did he throw himself upon their necks. He
looked like a man who did not know where he was or what to do. This
helplessness was worse to watch than tears.

"Wan
 he said. His great hands were shaking as he reached for
the kettle.


s Buckbeak, Hagrid?" said Hermione hesitantly.

I -- I took him outside," said Hagrid, spilling milk all over the table
as he filled up the jug. "He
 -- an
s hand trembled so violently that the milk jug slipped from his
grasp and shattered all over the floor.

"I
 said Hermione quickly, hurrying over and starting
to clean up the mess.


s another one in the cupboard," Hagrid said, sitting down and
wiping his forehead on his sleeve. Harry glanced at Ron, who looked back
hopelessly.

"Isn
 Harry asked fiercely,
sitting down next to him. 



s tried," said Hagrid. "He
em Buckbeak
re scared.... Yeh
know what Lucius Malfoy
em, I expect... an
s an old pal o
s... but it
 clean... an
ll be beside him.... "

Hagrid swallowed. His eyes were darting all over the cabin as though
looking for some shred of hope or comfort.

"Dumbledore
. Said he wants ter -- ter be with me. Great man,
Dumbledore...."

Hermione, who had been rummaging in Hagrid
We'll stay with you too, Hagrid,
Yeh're ter go back up ter the castle. I told yeh, I don' wan' yeh
watchin'. An' yeh shouldn' be down here anyway... If Fudge an'
Dumbledore catch yeh out without permission, Harry, yeh'll be in big
trouble.
s face, but she hid them
from Hagrid, bustling around making tea. Then, as she picked up the milk
bottle to pour some into the jug, she let out a shriek.

"Ron, I don
s Scabbers!"

Ron gaped at her.

"What are you talking about?"

Hermione carried the milk jug over to the table and turned it upside
down. With a frantic squeak, and much scrambling to get back inside,
Scabbers the rat came sliding out onto the table.

"Scabbers!" said Ron blankly. "Scabbers, what are you doing here?"

He grabbed the struggling rat and held him up to the light. Scabbers
looked dreadful. He was thinner than ever, large tufts of hair had
fallen out leaving wide bald patches, and he writhed in Ron
It's okay, Scabbers!
No cats! There's nothing here to hurt
you!
They're comin'....
Yeh gotta go,
They
mustn' find yeh here.... Go now...
I'll let yeh out the back way,
s Pumpkin patch. Buckbeak seemed to know
something was happening. He turned his sharp head from side to side and
pawed the ground nervously.

"It
 said Hagrid softly. 
s okay..." He turned to
Harry, Ron, and Hermione. "Go on," he said. "Get goin


But they didn't move.


t --"

"We



t kill him --"

"Go!" said Hagrid fiercely. "It
 all!"

They had no choice. As Hermione threw the cloak over Harry and Ron, they
heard voices at the front of the cabin. Hagrid looked at the place where
they had just vanished from sight.

"Go quick," he said hoarsely. "Don


And he strode back into his cabin as someone knocked at the front door.

Slowly, in a kind of horrified trance, Harry, Ron, and Hermione set off
silently around Hagrid's house. As they reached the other side, the
front door closed with a sharp snap.


s hurry," Hermione whispered. "I can
t
bear it...."

They started up the sloping lawn toward the castle. The sun was sinking
fast now; the sky had turned to a clear, purple-tinged grey, but to the
west there was a ruby-red glow.

Ron stopped dead.

"Oh, please, Ron," Hermione began.

"It
t -- stay put --"

Ron was bent over, trying to keep Scabbers in his pocket, but the rat
was going berserk; squeaking madly, twisting and flailing, trying to
sink his teeth into Ron
Scabbers, it's me, you idiot, it's Ron,
s voices.

"Oh, Ron, please let
re going to do it!" Hermione breathed.

"Okay -- Scabbers, stay put --"

They walked forward; Harry, like Hermione, was trying not to listen to
the rumble of voices behind them. Ron stopped again.

"I can
ll hear us --"

The rat was squealing wildly, but not loudly enough to cover up the
sounds drifting from Hagrid
They did it!
I d -- don't believe it -- they
did it!
s mind had gone blank with shock. The three of them stood
transfixed with horror under the Invisibility Cloak. The very last rays
of the setting sun were casting a bloody light over the long- shadowed
grounds. Then, behind them, they heard a wild howling.

"Hagrid," Harry muttered. Without thinking about what he was doing, he
made to turn back, but both Ron and Hermione seized his arms.

"We can
 said Ron, who was paper-white. 
ll be in worse trouble if
they know we


Hermione's breathing was shallow and uneven.


 she choked. 



 said Ron, whose teeth seemed to be chattering.

They set off back toward the castle, walking slowly to keep themselves
hidden under the cloak. The light was fading fast now.

By the time they reached open ground, darkness was settling like a spell
around them.


 Ron hissed, clamping his hand over his chest.
The rat was wriggling madly. Ron came to a sudden halt, trying to force
Scabbers deeper into his pocket. 
s the matter with you, You stupid
rat? Stay still -- OUCH! He bit me!"

"Ron, be quiet!" Hermione whispered urgently. "Fudge



t -- stay -- put --"

Scabbers was plainly terrified. He was writhing with all his might,
trying to break free of Ron
What's the matter with him?
s
squeaks, Harry couldn
Crookshanks!
No, go away, Crookshanks! Go away!
Scabbers -- NO!
s clutching fingers, hit the
ground, and scampered away. In one bound, Crookshanks sprang after him,
and before Harry or Hermione could stop him, Ron had thrown the
Invisibility Cloak off himself and pelted away into the darkness.

"Ron!" Hermione moaned.

She and Harry looked at each other, then followed at a sprint; it ""as
impossible to run full out under the cloak; they pulled it off and it
streamed behind them like a banner as they hurtled after Ron; they could
hear his feet thundering along ahead and his shouts at Crookshanks.

"Get away from him -- get away -- Scabbers, come here --"

There was a loud thud.

"Gotcha! Get off, you stinking cat --"

Harry and Hermione almost fell over Ron; they skidded to a stop right in
front of him. He was sprawled on the ground, but Scabbers was back in
his pocket; he had both hands held tight over the quivering lump.

"Ron -- come on back under the cloak --" Hermione panted. "Dumbledore
the Minister -- they


But before they could cover themselves again, before they could even
catch their breath, they heard the soft pounding of gigantic paws....
Something was bounding toward them, quiet as a shadow -- an enormous,
pale-eyed, jet-black dog.

Harry reached for his wand, but too late -- the dog had made an enormous
leap and the front paws hit him on the chest; he keeled over backward in
a whirl of hair; he felt its hot breath, saw inch- long teeth -

But the force of its leap had carried it too far; it rolled off him.
Dazed, feeling as though his ribs were broken, Harry tried to stand up;
he could hear it growling as it skidded around for a new attack.

Ron was on his feet. As the dog sprang back toward them he pushed Harry
aside; the dog's jaws fastened instead around Ron's outstretched arm.
Harry lunged forward, he seized a handful of the brute's hair, but it
was dragging Ron away as easily as though he were a rag doll --

Then, out of nowhere, something hit Harry so hard across the face he was
knocked off his feet again. He heard Hermione shriek with pain and fall
too.

Harry groped for his wand, blinking blood out of his eyes


he whispered.

The wandlight showed him the trunk of a thick tree; they had chased
Scabbers into the shadow of the Whomping Willow and its branches were
creaking as though in a high wind, whipping backward and forward to stop
them going nearer.

And there, at the base of the trunk, was the dog, dragging Ron backward
into a large gap in the roots -- Ron was fighting furiously, but his
head and torso were slipping out of sight --


 Harry shouted, trying to follow, but a heavy branch whipped
lethally through the air and he was forced backward again.

All they could see now was one of Ron's legs, which he had hooked around
a root in an effort to stop the dog from pulling him farther underground
-- but a horrible crack cut the air like a gunshot; Ron's leg had
broken, and a moment later, his foot vanished from sight.


ve got to go for help --" Hermione gasped; she was bleeding
too; the Willow had cut her across the shoulder.

"No! That thing
t got time --"

"Harry -- we


Another branch whipped down at them, twigs clenched like knuckles.


 Harry panted, darting here and there,
trying to find a way through the vicious, swishing branches, but he
couldn't get an inch nearer to the tree roots without being in range of
the tree's blows.


 Hermione whispered frantically, dancing U._ certainly
on the spot, 


Crookshanks darted forward. He slithered between the battering branches
like a snake and placed his front paws upon a knot on the trunk.

Abruptly, as though the tree had been turned to marble, it stopped
moving. Not a leaf twitched or shook.


 Hermione whispered uncertainly. She now grasped Harry's
arm painfully hard. 



s friends with that dog," said Harry grimly. "I


They covered the distance to the trunk in seconds, but before they had
reached the gap in the roots, Crookshanks had slid into it with a flick
of his bottlebrush tail. Harry went next; he crawled forward, headfirst,
and slid down an earthy slope to the bottom of a very low tunnel.
Crookshanks was a little way along, his eyes flashing in the light from
Harry's wand. Seconds later, Hermione slithered down beside him.


s Ron?" she whispered in a terrified voice.

"This way," said Harry, setting off, bent-backed, after Crookshanks.

"Where does this tunnel come out?" Hermione asked breathlessly from
behind him.

"I don
s marked on the Marauder
s ever gotten into it.... It goes off the edge of the map,
but it looked like it was heading for Hogsmeade..."

They moved as fast as they could, bent almost double; ahead of them,
Crookshanks
s arm again. Her wide eyes were
traveling around the boarded windows.

"Harry," she whispered, "I think we


Harry looked around. His eyes fell on a wooden chair near them. Large
chunks had been torn out of it; one of the legs had been ripped off
entirely.


t do that," he said slowly.

At that moment, there was a creak overhead. Something had Moved
upstairs. Both of them looked up at the ceiling. Hermione
s arm was so tight he was losing feeling in-his fingers. He raised
his eyebrows at her; she nodded again and let go.

Quietly as they could, they crept out into the hall and UP the crumbling
staircase. Everything was covered in a thick layer of dust except the
floor, where a wide shiny stripe had been made by something being
dragged upstairs.

They reached the dark landing.

"Nox," they whispered together, and the lights at the end of their wands
went out. Only one door was open. As they crept toward it, they heard
movement from behind it; a low moan, and then a deep, loud purring. They
exchanged a last look, a last nod.

Wand held tightly before him, Harry kicked the door wide open.

On a magnificent four-poster bed with dusty hangings lay Crookshanks,
purring loudly at the sight of them. On the floor beside him, clutching
his leg, which stuck out at a strange angle, was Ron.

Harry and Hermione dashed across to him.

"Ron -- are you okay?"

"Where



 Ron moaned. His teeth were gritted with pain. 
s
a trap --"

"What --"

"He
s an Animagus."

Ron was staring over Harry
t been
shining out of the deep, dark sockets, he might have been a corpse. The
waxy skin was stretched so tightly over the bones of his face, it looked
like a skull. His yellow teeth were bared in a grin. It was Sirius
Black.

"Expelliarmus!"he croaked, pointing Ron
s and Hermione
I thought you'd come and help your friend,
Your father would have done the same for me. Brave of you) not to
run for a teacher. I'm grateful... it will make everything much
easier....
s ears as though Black had
bellowed it. A boiling hate erupted in Harry
No, Harry!
If you want to kill Harry, you'll have to kill us too!
s shadowed eyes.

"Lie down," he said quietly to Ron. "You will damage that leg even
more."

"Did you hear me?" Ron said weakly, though he was clinging painfully to
Harry to stay upright. "You



ll be only one murder here tonight," said Brack, and his grin
widened.

"Why
 Harry spat, trying to wrench himself free of Ron, and
Hermione. 
t care last time, did you? Didn
s the matter, gone soft in
Azkaban?"

"Harry!" Hermione whimpered. "Be quiet!"

"HE KILLED MY MUM AND DAD!" Harry roared, and with a huge effort he
broke free of Hermione
s restraint and lunged forward -

He had forgotten about magic -- he had forgotten that he was short and
skinny and thirteen, whereas Black was a tall, full-grown man -- all
Harry knew was that he wanted to hurt Black as badly as he could and
that he didn
t raise the wands in time -- one of Harry
s other
hand collided with the side of Black
s hand sent a jet of sparks into the air that missed
Harry
s free hand had found Harry
No,
I've waited too long --
s foot swing out of nowhere. Black let go of Harry
with a grunt of pain; Ron had thrown himself on Black
Argh!
s arm; Harry threw him off, but Crookshanks
now darted toward Harry
NO YOU DON'T!
Get out of the way!
t need telling twice. Hermione, gasping for breath, her lip
bleeding, scrambled aside, snatching up her and Ron
s heart.

"Going to kill me, Harry?" he whispered.

Harry stopped right above him, his wand still pointing at Black
s left eye
and his nose was bleeding.

"You killed my parents," said Harry, his voice shaking slightly, but his
wand hand quite steady.

Black stared up at him out of those sunken eyes.

"I don
 he said very quietly. 



 Harry repeated, a furious pounding in his ears. 
s all I need to know."

"You
 Black said, and there was a note of
urgency in his voice now. 
ll regret it if you don
t
understand...."

"I understand a lot better than you think," said Harry, and his voice
shook more than ever. "You never heard her, did you? My mum... trying to
stop Voldemort killing me... and you did that... you did it...."

Before either of them could say another word, something ginger streaked
past Harry; Crookshanks leapt onto Black
s heart. Black blinked and looked down at the
cat.

"Get off," he murmured, trying to push Crookshanks off him.

But Crookshanks sank his claws into Black
t shift. He
turned his ugly, squashed face to Harry and looked up at him with those
great yellow eyes. To his right, Hermione gave a dry sob.

Harry stared down at Black and Crookshanks, his grip tightening on the
wand. So what if he had to kill the cat too? It was in league with
Black.... If it was prepared to die, trying to protect Black, that
wasn
s business.... If Black wanted to save it, that only proved
he cared more for Crookshanks than for Harry
s ragged
breathing came from near the bed; Hermione was quite silent.

And then came a new sound -

Muffled footsteps were echoing up through the floor -- someone was
moving downstairs.

"WE
 Hermione screamed suddenly. 
RE UP HERE -- SIRIUS
BLACK - QUICK!"

Black made a startled movement that almost dislodged Crookshanks; Harry
gripped his wand convulsively -- Do it now! said a voice in his head --
but the footsteps were thundering up the stairs and Harry still hadn
s feet.

"Expelliarmus!" Lupin shouted.

Harry
t done it. His nerve
had failed him. Black was going to be handed back to the dementors.

Then Lupin spoke, in a very tense voice.

"Where is he, Sirius?"

Harry looked quickly at Lupin. He didn
s face was quite expressionless. For a few seconds, he didn
But then...
... why hasn't he shown himself before
now? Unless
s eyes suddenly widened, as though he was seeing
something beyond Black, something none of the rest could see, "-- unless
he was the one... unless you switched... without telling me?"

Very slowly, his sunken gaze never leaving Lupin
Professor,
what's going on --?
s side, seized his hand, pulled him to his
feet so that Crookshanks fell to the floor, and embraced Black like a
brother.

Harry felt as though the bottom had dropped out of his stomach.

"DON
 Hermione screamed.

Lupin let go of Black and turned to her. She had raised herself off the
floor and was pointing at Lupin, wild-eyed. 












t tell anyone!" Hermione shrieked. "I



" Lupin shouted. "I can explain --"

Harry could feel himself shaking, not with fear, but with a fresh wave
of fury.

"I trusted you," he shouted at Lupin, his voice wavering, out of
control, "and all the time you



re wrong," said Lupin. "I haven
s friend, but I am
now -- Let me explain...."

"NO!" Hermione screamed. "Harry, don
s been helping
Black get into the castle, he wants you dead too -- he


There was a ringing silence. Everyone's eyes were now on Lupin, who
looked remarkably calm, though rather pale.


 he said. 
m afraid. I have not been helping Sirius get into the castle
and I certainly don
But I won't deny that I am a werewolf.
Get
away ftom me, werewolf!
How long have you known?
Ages,
Since I did Professor Snape's essay...
He'll be delighted,
He assigned that essay hoping
someone would realize what my symptoms meant.... Did you check the lunar
chart and realize that I was always ill at the full moon? Or did you
realize that the boggart changed into the moon when it saw me?
Both,
You're the cleverest witch of your age I've ever met, Hermione.
I'm not,
If I'd been a bit cleverer, I'd have
told everyone what you are!
But they already know,
At least, the staff do.
Dumbledore hired you when he knew you were a werewolf. Ron gasped. 



 said Lupin. 
m trustworthy --"

"AND HE WAS WRONG!" Harry yelled. "YOUVE BEEN HELPING HIM ALL THE TIME!"
He was pointing at Black, who suddenly crossed to the four-poster bed
and sank onto it, his face hidden in one shaking hand. Crookshanks leapt
up beside him and stepped onto his lap, purring. Ron edged away from
both of them, dragging his leg.

I have not been helping Sirius," said Lupin. "If you
ll explain. Look --"

He separated Harry
s and Hermione
You're
armed, we're not. Now will you listen?
t know what to think. Was it a trick?

"If you haven
 he said, with a furious glance at
Black, 



 said Lupin. 
s Map. I was in my office examining
it --"

"You know how to work it?" Harry said suspiciously.

"Of course I know how to work it," said Lupin, waving his hand
impatiently. "I helped write it. I

nickname for me at school."

"You wrote --?"

"The important thing is, I was watching it carefully this evening,
because I had an idea that you, Ron, and Hermione might try and sneak
out of the castle to visit Hagrid before his hippogriff was executed.
And I was right, wasn


He had started to pace up and down, looking at them. Little patches of
dust rose at his feet.


s old cloak, Harry--"

"How d



 said Lupin,
waving an impatient hand again. 
re wearing an
Invisibility Cloak, you still show up on the Marauder
s hut. Twenty minutes later, you
left Hagrid, and set off back toward the castle. But you were now
accompanied by somebody else."

"What?" said Harry. "No, we weren


I couldn't believe my eyes,
s interruption. "I thought the map must be malfunctioning. How
could he be with you?" "No one was with us!" said Harry.

"And then I saw another dot, moving fast toward you, labeled Sirius
Black.... I saw him collide with you; I watched as he pulled two of you
into the Whomping Willow --"

"One of us!" Ron said angrily.

"No, Ron," said Lupin. "Two of you."

He had stopped his pacing, his eyes moving over Ron.

"Do you think I could have a look at the rat?" he said evenly.

"What?" said Ron. "What



 said Lupin. 


Ron hesitated, then put a hand inside his robes. Scabbers emerged,
thrashing desperately; Ron had to seize his long bald tail to stop him
escaping. Crookshanks stood up on Black's leg and made a soft hissing
noise.

Lupin moved closer to Ron. He seemed to be holding his breath as he
gazed intently at Scabbers.


 Ron said again, holding Scabbers close to him, looking scared.

s my rat got to do with anything?"

"That
 croaked Sirius Black suddenly.


you mean -- of course he



s not," said Lupin quietly. "He



 said Black, 


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

MOONY, WORMTAIL, PADDFOOT, AND PRONGS

It took a few seconds for the absurdity of this statement to sink in.
Then Ron voiced what Harry was thinking.


re both mental."

"Ridiculous!" said Hermione faintly.

"Peter Pettigrew
 said Harry. 

He pointed at Black, whose face twitched convulsively.


 he growled, his yellow teeth bared, 


And Crookshanks was thrown to the floor as Black lunged at Scabbers; Ron
yelled with pain as Black's weight fell on his broken leg.

.
 Lupin yelled, launching himself forwards and dragging
Black away from Ron again, 
t do it just like that -- they
need to understand -- we



 snarled Black, trying to throw Lupin off.
One hand was still clawing the air as it tried to reach Scabbers, who
was squealing like a piglet, scratching Ron's face and neck as he tried
to escape.


ve -- got -- a -- right -- to -- know -- -everything!" Lupin
panted, still trying to restrain Black. "Ron
t understand, and Harry -- you owe Harry the
truth, Sirius!"

Black stopped struggling, though his hollowed eyes were still fixed on
Scabbers, who was clamped tightly under Ron
All right, then,
Tell them whatever you like. But make it quick, Remus. I want to commit
the murder I was imprisoned for...
You're nutters, both of you,
I've had enough of this. I'm off.
You're going to hear me out, Ron,
Just keep a tight
hold on Peter while you listen.
HE'S NOT PETER, HE'S SCABBERS!
 he said. 



t see what they thought they saw!" said Black savagely, still
watching Scabbers struggling in Ron
Everyone thought Sirius killed Peter,
I believed
it myself -- until I saw the map tonight. Because the Marauder's map
never lies... Peter's alive. Ron's holding him, Harry.
But Professor Lupin... Scabbers can't be Pettigrew... it just can't be
true, you know it can't...
Why can't it be true?
Because... because people would know if Peter Pettigrew had been an
Animagus. We did Animagi in class with Professor McGonagall. And I
looked them up when I did my homework -- the Ministry of Magic keeps
tabs on witches and wizards who can become animals; there's a register
showing what animal they become, and their markings and things... and I
went and looked Professor McGonagall up on the register, and there have
been only seven Animagi this century, and Pettigrew's name wasn't on the
list.
Light again, Hermione!
But the Ministry never knew that here
used to be three unregistered Animagi running around Hogwarts.
I you're going to tell them the story, get a move on, Remus,
s every desperate move. "I
m not going to wait much longer."

"All right... but you
 said Lupin, I only
know how it began...
No one there...
This place is haunted!
It's not,
The
Shrieking Shack was never haunted.... The screams and howls the
villagers used to hear were made by me.
That's where all of this starts -- with my becoming a werewolf,
None of this could have happened if I hadn't been bitter... and if I
hadn't been so foolhardy...
Shh!
I as a very small boy when I received the bite. My parents tried
everything, but in those days there was no cure. The potion that
Professor Snape has been making for me is a very recent discovery. It
makes me safe, you see. As long as I take it in the week, preceding the
full moon, I keep my mind when I transform.... I'm able to curl up in my
office, a harmless wolf, and wait for the moon to wane again.


t likely to want their children
exposed to me.

"But then Dumbledore became Headmaster, and he was sympathetic. He said
that as long as we took certain precautions, there was no reason I
shouldn
 Lupin sighed, and looked directly at
Harry. 
 -- Lupin looked miserably around the room, --



Harry couldn't see where this story was going, but he was listening
raptly all the same. The only sound apart from Lupin's voice was
Scabbers's frightened squeaking.


t dare approach it...."

"But apart from my transformations, I was happier than I had ever been
in my life. For the first time ever, I had friends, three great friends.
Sirius Black... Peter Pettigrew... and, of course, your father, Harry --
James Potter."

"Now, my three friends could hardly fail to notice that I disappeared
once a month. I made up all sorts of stories. I told them my mother was
ill, and that I had to go home to see her... I was terrified they would
desert me the moment they found out what I was. But of course, they,
like you, Hermione, worked out the truth...."

"And they didn



 said Harry, astounded.


 said Lupin. 



 said Hermione, sounding puzzled.


t keep me company as humans, so they kept me company as
animals," said Lupin. "A werewolf is only a danger to people. They
sneaked out of the castle every month under James
s attacking branches and touch the knot that freezes it. They
would then slip down the tunnel and join me. Under their influence, I
became less dangerous. My body was still wolfish, but my mind seemed to
become less so while I was with them."

"Hurry up, Remus," snarled Black, who was still watching Scabbers with a
horrible sort of hunger on his face.

"I
m getting there... well, highly exciting
possibilities were open to us now that we could all transform. Soon we
were leaving the Shrieking Shack and roaming the school grounds and the
village by night. Sirius and James transformed into such large animals,
they were able to keep a werewolf in check. I doubt whether any Hogwarts
students ever found out more about the Hogwarts grounds and Hogsmeade
than we did.... And that
s Map, and
sign it with our nicknames. Sirius is Padfoot. Peter is Wormtail. James
was Prongs."

"What sort of animal --?" Harry began, but Hermione cut him off.

"That was still really dangerous! Running around in the dark with a
werewolf! What if you



 said Lupin heavily. 


I sometimes felt guilty about betraying Dumbledore's trust, of course...
he had admitted me to Hogwarts when no other headmaster would have done
so, and he had no idea I was breaking the rules he had set down for my
own and others' safety. He never knew I had led three fellow students
into becoming Animagi illegally. But I always managed to forget my
guilty feelings every time we sat down to plan our next month's
adventure. And I haven't changed...
s face had hardened, and there was self-disgust in his voice. "All
this year, I have been battling with myself, wondering whether I should
tell Dumbledore that Sirius was an Animagus. But I didn
d
betrayed his trust while I was at school, admitting that I
s trust has meant everything to me. He
let me into Hogwarts as a boy, and he gave me a job when I have been
shunned all my adult life, unable to find paid work because of what I
am. And so I convinced myself that Sirius was getting into the school
using dark arts he learned from Voldemort, that being an Animagus had
nothing to do with it... so, in a way, Snape



 said Black harshly, taking his eyes off Scabbers; for the first
time in minutes and looking up at Lupin. 
s Snape got to do with
it?"

"He
 said Lupin heavily. 
s teaching here as well."
He looked up at Harry, Ron, and Hermione.

"Professor Snape was at school with us. He fought very hard against my
appointment to the Defense Against the Dark Arts job. He has been
telling Dumbledore A year that I am not to be trusted. He has his
reasons... you see, Sirius here played a trick on him which nearly
killed him, a trick which involved me --"

Black made a derisive noise.

"It served him right," he sneered. "Sneaking around, trying to find out
what we were up to... hoping he could get us expelled...."

"Severus was very interested in where I went every month." Lupin told
Harry, Ron, and Hermione. "We were in the same year, you know, and we --
er -- didn
s talent on the Quidditch field... anyway
Snape had seen me crossing the grounds with Madam Pomfrey one evening as
she led me toward the Whomping Willow to transform. Sirius thought it
would be -- er -- amusing, to tell Snape all he had to do was prod the
knot on the tree trunk with a long stick, and he
d got as far as this
house, he
d
heard what Sirius had done, went after Snape and pulled him back, at
great risk to his life... Snape glimpsed me, though, at the end of the
tunnel. He was forbidden by Dumbledore to tell anybody, but from that
time on he knew what I was...."

"So that
t like you," said Harry slowly, "because he
thought you were in on the joke?"

"That
 sneered a cold voice from the wall behind Lupin.

Severus Snape was pulling off the Invisibility Cloak, his wand pointing,
directly at Lupin.

CHAPTER NINETEEN

THE SERVANT OF LORD VOLDEMORT

Hermione screamed. Black leapt to his feet. Harry felt as though he'd
received a huge electric shock.


 said Snape, throwing
the cloak aside, careful to keep this wand pointing directly at Lupin's
chest. 


Snape was slightly breathless, but his face was full of suppressed
triumph. 
re wondering, perhaps, how I knew you were here?" he said,
his eyes glittering. "I



 Lupin began, but Snape overrode him.


ve told the headmaster again and again that you
s the proof. Not even I
dreamed you would have the nerve to use this old place as your hideout
--"

"Severus, you
 said Lupin urgently. 
t
heard everything -- I can explain -- Sirius is not here to kill Harry
--"

"Two more for Azkaban tonight," said Snape, his eyes now gleaming
fanatically. "I shall be interested to see how Dumbledore takes this....
He was quite convinced you were harmless, you know, Lupin... a tame
werewolf --"

"You fool," said Lupin softly. "Is a schoolboy grudge worth putting an
innocent man back inside Azkaban?"

BANG! Thin, snakelike cords burst from the end of Snape
s mouth, wrists, and ankles; he
overbalanced and fell to the floor, unable to move. With a roar of rage,
Black started toward Snape, but Snape pointed his wand straight between
Black
Give me a reason,
Give me a reason to do it, and I
swear I will.
Professor Snape -- it it wouldn't hurt to hear what
they've got to say, w -- would it?
Miss Granger, you are already facing suspension from this school,
You, Potter, and Weasley are out-of-bounds, in the company
of a convicted murderer and a werewolf. For once in your life, hold your
tongue.
But if -- if there was a mistake --
KEEP QUIET, YOU STUPID GIRL!
DON'T TALK ABOUT WHAT YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND!
s
face. Hermione fell silent.

"Vengeance is very sweet," Snape breathed at Black. "How I hoped I would
be the one to catch you...."

"The joke
 Black snarled. 
 -- he jerked his head at Ron -- 
ll
come quietly...."

"Up to the castle?" said Snape silkily. "I don
ll be very pleased to see you, Black... pleased enough to
give you a little kiss, I daresay... I --"

What little color there was in Blacks face left it.

"You -you
 he croaked. 


But there was a mad glint in Snape's eyes that Harry had never seen
before. He seemed beyond reason.


 he said. He clicked his fingers, and the ends of
the cords that bound Lupin flew to his hands. 
ll drag the werewolf.
Perhaps the dementors will have a kiss for him too --"

Before he knew what he was doing, Harry had crossed the room in three
strides and blocked the door.

"Get out of the way, Potter, you
 snarled
Snape. 
t been here to save your skin --"

"Professor Lupin could have killed me about a hundred times this year,"
Harry said. "I
t he
just finish me off then?"

"Don
s mind works," hissed Snape.
"Get out of the way, Potter."

"YOURE PATHETIC!" Harry yelled. "JUST BECAUSE THEY MADE A FOOL OF YOU AT
SCHOOL YOU WON



 Snape shrieked, looking
madder than ever. 
d killed you! You


Harry made up his mind in a split second. Before Snape could take even
one step toward him, he had raised his wand.


 he yelled -- except that his wasn't the only voice that
shouted. There was a blast that made the door rattle on its hinges;
Snape was lifted off his feet and slammed into the wall, then slid down
it to the floor, a trickle of blood oozing from under his hair. He had
been knocked out.

Harry looked around. Both Ron and Hermione had tried to disarm Snape at
exactly the same moment. Snape's wand soared in a high arc and landed on
the bed next to Crookshanks.


t have done that," said Black, looking at Harry.

"You should have left him to me...."

Harry avoided Black
t sure, even now, that he
We attacked a teacher... We attacked a teacher...
Oh, we're going to
be in so much trouble --
Thank you, Harry,
I'm still not saying I believe you,
Then it's time we offered you some proof,
You, boy --
give me Peter, please. Now.
Come off it,
Are you trying to say he broke out of
Azkaban just to get his hands on Scabbers? I mean...
Okay, say Pettigrew could turn into a
rat -- there are millions of rats -- how's he supposed to know which one
he's after if he was locked up in Azkaban?
You know, Sirius, that's a fair question,
How did you find out where he was?
s shoulder, was
Scabbers.

"How did you get this?" Lupin asked Black, thunderstruck.

"Fudge," said Black. "When he came to inspect Azkaban last year, he gave
me his paper. And there was Peter, on the front page on this boy
My God,
His front paw...
What about it?
He's got a toe missing,
Of course,
So simple... so brilliant... he cut it off
himself?
Just before he transformed,
When I cornered him, he
yelled for the whole street to hear that I'd betrayed Lily and James.
Then, before I could curse him, he blew apart the street with the wand
behind his back, killed everyone within twenty feet of himself -- and
sped down into the sewer with the other rats....
Didn't you ever hear, Ron?
The biggest bit of Peter they
found was his finger.
Look, Scabbers probably had a fight with another rat or something! He's
been in my family for ages, right --
Twelve years, in fact,
Didn't you ever wonder why he was
living so long?
We -- we've been taking good care of him!
Not looking too good at the moment, though, is he?
I'd
guess he's been losing weight ever since he heard Sirius was on the
loose again....
He's been scared of that mad cat!
t right, Harry thought suddenly... Scabbers had been
looking ill before he met Crookshanks... ever since Ron
This cat isn't mad,
s fluffy head. "He
ve ever met. He recognized Peter for what he was right away. And
when he met me, he knew I was no dog. It was a while before he trusted
me.... Finally, I managed to communicate to him what I was after, and
he
What do you mean?
He tried to bring Peter to me, but couldn't... so he stole the
passwords into Gryffindor Tower for me.... As I understand it, he took
them from a boy's bedside table....
s brain seemed to be sagging under the weight of what he was
hearing. It was absurd... and yet...

"But Peter got wind of what was going on and ran for it." croaked Black.
"This cat -- Crookshanks, did you call him? -- told me Peter had left
blood on the sheets.... I supposed he bit himself... Well, faking his
own death had worked once."

These words jolted Harry to his senses.

"And why did he fake his death?" he said furiously. "Because he knew you
were about to kill him like you killed my parents!"

"No," said Lupin, "Harry-"

"And now you



 said Black, with an evil look at Scabbers.


ve let Snape take you!" Harry shouted.

"Harry," said Lupin hurriedly, "don
ve
thought Sirius betrayed your parents, and Peter tracked him down -- but
it was the other way around, don



S NOT TRUE!" Harry yelled. "HE WAS THEIR SECRET-KEEPER! HE SAID SO
BEFORE YOU TURNED UP. HE SAID HE KILLED THEM!"

He was pointing at Black, who shook his head slowly; the sunken eyes
were suddenly over bright.

"Harry... I as good as killed them," he croaked. "I persuaded Lily and
James to change to Peter at the last moment, persuaded them to use him
as Secret-Keeper instead of me.... I
d arranged to check on Peter, make sure he was still safe,
but when I arrived at his hiding place, he
t feel right. I was scared. I set out for your
parents
ve done... what I


His voice broke. He turned away.


 said Lupin, and there was a steely note in his voice
Harry had never heard before. 
s one certain way to prove what
really happened. Ron, give me that rat."

"What are you going to do with him if I give him to you?" Ron asked
Lupin tensely.

"Force him to show himself," said Lupin. "If he really is a rat, it
won


Ron hesitated. Then at long last, he held out Scabbers and Lupin took
him. Scabbers began to squeak without stopping, twisting and turning,
his tiny black eyes bulging in his head. 
 said Lupin.

Black had already retrieved Snape's wand from the bed. He approached
Lupin and the struggling rat, and his wet eyes suddenly seemed to be
burning in his face.


 he said quietly.


On the count of three. One -- two -- THREE!
s
fur, and something of the rat lingered around his pointed nose and his
very small, watery eyes. He looked around at them all, his breathing
fast and shallow. Harry saw his eyes dart to the door and back again.

"Well, hello, Peter," said Lupin pleasantly, as though rats frequently
erupted into old school friends around him. "Long time, no see.

"S -- Sirius... R -- Remus..." Even Pettigrew
My friends... my old
friends...
s wand arm rose, but Lupin seized him around the wrist, gave him a
warning took, then turned again to Pettigrew, his voice light and
casual.

"We



 gasped Pettigrew, and Harry could see beads of sweat breaking
out over his pasty face, 
t believe him, do you...? He tried to
kill me, Remus...."

"So we
 said Lupin, more coldly. 
d like to clear up one or
two little matters with you, Peter, if you



s come to try and kill me again!" Pettigrew squeaked suddenly,
pointing at Black, and Harry saw that he used his middle finger, because
his index was missing. "He killed Lily and James and now he
ve got to help me, Remus...."

Black
No one's going to try and kill you until we've sorted a few things
out,
Sorted things out?
 the only door. "I
knew he
d be back for me! I



 said Lupin, his
brow furrowed. 



s got dark powers the rest of us can only dream of!" Pettigrew
shouted shrilly. "How else did he get out of there? I suppose
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named taught him a few tricks!"

Black started to laugh, a horrible, mirthless laugh that filled the
whole room.

"Voldemort, teach me tricks?" he said.

Pettigrew flinched as though Black had brandished a whip at him.

"What, scared to hear your old master
 said Black. I don't blame
you, Peter. His lot aren't very happy with you, are they?
Don't know what you mean, Sirius --
You haven't been hiding from me for twelve years,
You've
been hiding from Voldemort's old supporters. I heard things in Azkaban,
Peter... They all think you're dead, or you'd have to answer to them....
I've heard them screaming all sorts of things in their sleep. Sounds
like they think the double-crosser double-crossed them. Voldemort went
to the Potters' on your information... and Voldemort met his downfall
there. And not all Voldemort's supporters ended up in Azkaban, did they?
There are still plenty out here, biding their time, pretending they've
seen the error of their ways.

If they ever got wind that you were still alive, Peter --
Don't know... what you're talking about...,
You don't believe this -- this madness, Remus --
I must admit, Peter, I have difficulty in understanding why an innocent
man would want to spend twelve years as a rat,
Innocent, but scared!
If Voldemort's supporters
were after me, it was because I put one of their best men in Azkaban --
the spy, Sirius Black!
s face contorted.

"How dare you," he growled, sounding suddenly like the bearsized dog he
had been. I, a spy for Voldemort? When did I ever sneak around people
who were stronger and more powerful than myself? But you, Peter -- I
t see you were the spy from the start. You
always liked big friends who
t you? It used to be
us... me and Remus... and James....

Pettigrew wiped his face again; he was almost panting for breath.

"Me, a spy... must be out of your mind... never... don




Black hissed, so venomously that Pettigrew took a step backward. 
d use a weak, talentless thing
like you.... It must have been the finest moment of your miserable life,
telling Voldemort you could hand him the Potters."

Pettigrew was muttering distractedly; Harry caught words like
"far-fetched" and "lunacy," but he couldn
s face and the way his eyes continued to
dart toward the windows and door.

"Professor Lupin?" said Hermione timidly. "Can -- can I say something?"

"Certainly, Hermione," said Lupin courteously.

"Well -- Scabbers -- I mean, this -- this man -- he
s dormitory for three years. If he



 said Pettigrew shrilly, pointing at Ron with his maimed hand.

s head!
Why should I?"

"I
 said Black. 
s been in
hiding for fifteen years, they say he
t about to
commit murder right under Albus Dumbledore
d lost all of his power, were you? You
t you? Why else did you find a wizard family to take you in?
Keeping an ear out for news, weren


Pettigrew opened his mouth and closed it several times. He seemed to
have lost the ability to talk.


 said Hermione.

Black jumped at being addressed like this and stared at Hermione as
though he had never seen anything quite like her.


t mind me asking, how -- how did you get out of Azkaban, if
you didn



 gasped Pettigrew, nodding frantically at her. 


But Lupin silenced him with a look. Black was frowning slightly at
Hermione, but not as though he were annoyed with her. He seemed to be
pondering his answer.


t know how I did it," he said slowly. "I think the only reason I
never lost my mind is that I knew I was innocent. That wasn
t suck it out of me... but it kept me
sane and knowing who I am... helped me keep my powers... so when it all
became ... too much... I could transform in my cell... become a dog.
Dementors can
 He swallowed. 
t trouble them. But I was weak, very weak, and I had
no hope of driving them away from me without a wand...."

"But then I saw Peter in that picture... I realized he was at Hogwarts
with Harry... perfectly positioned to act, if one hint reached his ears
that the Dark Side was gathering strength again...."

Pettigrew was shaking his head, mouthing noiselessly, but staring all
the while at Black as though hypnotized.

"... ready to strike at the moment he could be sure of allies... and to
deliver the last Potter to them. if he gave them Harry, who
d betrayed Lord Voldemort? He
So you see, I had to do something. I was the only one who knew Peter
was still alive....
The guards say
he's been talking in his sleep... always the same words... 'He's at
Hogwarts.'
It was as if someone had lit a fire In my head, and the dementors
couldn't destroy it.... It wasn't a happy feeling... it was an
obsession... but it gave me strength, it cleared my mind. So, one night
when they opened my door to bring food, I slipped past them as a dog....
It's so much harder for them to sense animal emotions that they were
confused.... I was thin, very thin... thin enough to slip through the
bars.... I swam as a dog back to the mainland.... I journeyed north and
slipped into the Hogwarts grounds as a dog. I've been living in the
forest ever since, except when I came to watch the Quidditch, of course.
You fly as well as your father did, Harry....
Believe me,
Believe me, Harry. I never betrayed James
and Lily. I would have died before I betrayed them.
No!
s nod had been his own
death sentence. He shuffled forward on his knees, groveling, his hands
clasped in front of him as though praying.

"Sirius -- it
s Peter... your friend... you wouldn


Black kicked out and Pettigrew recoiled.


s enough filth on my robes without you touching them," said
Black.

"Remus!" Pettigrew squeaked, turning to Lupin instead, writhing
imploringly in front of him. "You don
t Sirius
have told you they



 said Lupin. 
s
why you didn
 he said casually over Pettigrews head.


 said Black.


 said Lupin, who was now rolling up
his sleeves. 



 said Black, and the ghost of a grin flitted across his
gaunt face. He, too, began rolling up his sleeves. 



 said Lupin grimly.


t... you won
 gasped Pettigrew. And he scrambled
around to Ron.


t I been a good friend... a good pet? You won
re on my side, aren
I let you sleep in my bed!
Kind boy... kind master...
You won't let
them do it.... I was your rat.... I was a good pet....
If you made a better rat than a human, it's not much to boast about,
Peter,
s reach. Pettigrew turned on his knees,
staggered forward, and seized the hem of Hermione
Sweet girl... clever girl... you -- you won't let them.... Help me....
s clutching hands and backed
away against the wall, looking horrified.

Pettigrew knelt, trembling uncontrollably, and-turned his head slowly
toward Harry.

"Harry... Harry... you look just like your father... just like him...."

"HOW DARE YOU SPEAK TO HARRY?" roared Black. "HOW DARE YOU FACE HIM? HOW
DARE YOU TALK ABOUT JAMES IN FRONT OF HIM?"

"Harry," whispered Pettigrew, shuffling toward him, hands outstretched.
"Harry, James wouldn


Both Black and Lupin strode forward, seized Pettigrew's shoulders, and
threw him backward onto the floor. He sat there, twitching with terror,
staring up at them.


 said Black, who was shaking too.



Pettigrew burst into tears. It was horrible to watch, like an oversized,
balding baby, cowering on the floor.


t imagine.... I was scared, Sirius, I was
never brave like you and Remus and James. I never meant it to happen....
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named forced me --"

"DON
 bellowed Black. 
D BEEN PASSING INFORMATION TO HIM FOR
A YEAR BEFORE LILY AND JAMES DIED! YOU WERE HIS SPY!"

"He -- he was taking over everywhere!" gasped Pettigrew. "Wh -- what was
there to be gained by refusing him?"

"What was there to be gained by fighting the most evil wizard who has
ever existed?" said Black, with a terrible fury in his face. "Only
innocent lives, Peter!"

"You don
 whined Pettigrew. 



 roared Black. 


Black and Lupin stood shoulder to shoulder, wands raised.


 said Lupin quietly, 
t
kill you, we would. Good-bye, Peter."

Hermione covered her face with her hands and turned to the wall.

"NO!" Harry yelled. He ran forward, placing himself in front Pettigrew,
facing the wands. "You can
 he said breathlessly. 
t."

Black and Lupin both looked staggered.

"Harry, this piece of vermin is the reason you have no parents," Black
snarled. "This cringing bit of filth would have seen you die too,
without turning a hair. You heard him. His own stinking skin meant more
to him than your whole family."

"I know," Harry panted. "We
ll hand him
over to the dementors.... He can go to Azkaban... but don



 gasped Pettigrew, and he flung his arms around Harry's knees.

s more than I deserve -- thank you --"

"Get off me," Harry spat, throwing Pettigrew
I'm not doing this for you. I'm doing it because -- I don't reckon my
dad would've wanted them to become killers -- just for you.
You're the only person who has the right to decide, Harry,
But think... think what he did....
He can go to Azkaban,
If anyone deserves that place,
he does....
Very well,
Stand aside, Harry.
I'm going to tie him up,
That's all, I swear.
s wand this
time, and next moment, Pettigrew was wriggling on the floor, bound and
gagged.

"But if you transform, Peter," growled Black, his own wand pointing at
Pettigrew too, "we will kill you. You agree, Harry?"

Harry looked down at the pitiful figure on the floor and nodded so that
Pettigrew could see him.

"Right," said Lupin, suddenly businesslike. "Ron, I can
s best if we just strap
your leg up until we can get you to the hospital wing."

He hurried over to Ron, bent down, tapped Ron
Ferula.
s leg, strapping it tightly to
a splint. Lupin helped him to his feet; Ron put his weight gingerly on
the leg and didn
That's better,
Thanks.
What about Professor Snape?
s prone figure.

"There
 said Lupin, bending over
Snape and checking his pulse. 
t revive him until we


He muttered, 
 As though invisible strings were tied to
Snape's wrists, neck, and knees, he was pulled into a standing position,
head still lolling unpleasantly, like a grotesque puppet. He hung a few
inches above the ground, his limp feet dangling. Lupin picked up the
Invisibility Cloak and tucked it safely into his pocket.


 said Black, nudging Pettigrew
with his toe. 



ll do it," said Lupin.

"And me," said Ron savagely, limping forward.

Black conjured heavy manacles from thin air; soon Pettigrew was upright
again, left arm chained to Lupin
s left. Ron
s true identity as a
personal insult. Crookshanks leapt lightly off the bed and led the way
out of the room, his bottlebrush tail held jauntily high.

CHAPTER TWENTY

THE DEMENTOR
You know what this means?
Turning Pettigrew in?
You' re free,
Yes...,
But I'm also -- I don't know if anyone ever told
you -- I'm your godfather.
Yeah, I knew that,
Well... your parents appointed me your guardian,
If anything happened to them...
I'll understand, of course, if you want to stay with your aunt and
uncle,
But... well... think about it. Once my name's
cleared... if you wanted a... a different home...
s stomach.

"What -- live with you?" he said, accidentally cracking his head on a
bit of rock protruding from the ceiling. "Leave the Dursleys?"

"Of course, I thought you wouldn
 said Black quickly. 
d --"

"Are you insane?" said Harry, his voice easily as croaky as Black
Of course I want to leave the Dursleys! Have you got a house? When can
I move in?
s head was scraping the
ceiling but Black didn
You want to?
You mean it?
Yeah, I mean it!
s gaunt face broke into the first true smile Harry had seen upon
it. The difference it made was startling, as though a person ten years
younger were shining through the starved mask; for a moment, he was
recognizable as the man who had laughed at Harry
 wedding.

They did not speak again until they had reached the end of the tunnel.
Crookshanks darted up first; he had evidently pressed his paw to the
knot on the trunk, because Lupin, Pettigrew, and Ron clambered upward
without any sound of savaging branches.

Black saw Snape up through the hole, then stood back for Harry and
Hermione to pass. At last, all of them were out.

The grounds were very dark now; the only light came from the distant
windows of the castle. Without a word, they set off. Pettigrew was still
wheezing and occasionally whimpering. Harry
 best friend.... He felt dazed.... What would happen when he
told the Dursleys he was going to live with the convict they
One wrong move, Peter,
s chest.

Silently they tramped through the grounds, the castle lights growing
slowly larger. Snape was still drifting weirdly ahead of Black, his chin
bumping on his chest. And then -

A cloud shifted. There were suddenly dim shadows on the ground. Their
party was bathed in moonlight.

Snape collided with Lupin, Pettigrew, and Ron, who had stopped abruptly.
Black froze. He flung out one arm to make Harry and Hermione stop.

Harry could see Lupin
Oh, my --
He didn't take his potion tonight! He's
not safe!
Run,
Run. Now.
t run. Ron was chained to Pettigrew and Lupin. He leapt
forward but Black caught him around the chest and threw him back.

"Leave it to me -- RUN!"

There was a terrible snarling noise. Lupin
s
hair was on end again; he was backing away --

As the werewolf reared, snapping its long jaws, Sirius disappeared from
Harry
s scream that alerted him --

Pettigrew had dived for Lupin
Expelliarmus.
s wand flew high into the air and out of sight. "Stay where you
are!" Harry shouted, running forward.

Too late. Pettigrew had transformed. Harry saw his bald tail whip
through the manacle on Ron
Sirius, he's gone, Pettigrew transformed!
s words he scrambled up again, and in an instant, the sound of his
paws faded to silence as he pounded away across the grounds.

Harry and Hermione dashed over to Ron.

"What did he do to him?" Hermione whispered. Ron
t seem to recognize them.

"I don


Harry looked desperately around. Black and Lupin both gone... they had
no one but Snape for company, still hanging, unconscious, in midair.


d better get them up to the castle and tell someone," said Harry,
pushing his hair out of his eyes, trying to think straight. "Come --"

But then, from beyond the range of their vision, they heard a yelping, a
whining: a dog in pain....

"Sirius," Harry muttered, staring into the darkness.

He had a moment
Nooo," he moaned. 


And then Harry saw them. Dementors, at least a hundred of them, gliding
in a black mass around the lake toward them. He spun around, the
familiar, icy cold penetrating his insides, fog starting to obscure his
vision; more were appearing out of the darkness on every side; they were
encircling them....


 Harry yelled, raising his wand,
blinking furiously to try and clear his vision, shaking his head to rid
it of the faint screaming that had started inside it --

I'm going to live with my godfather. I'm leaving the Dursleys.

He forced himself to think of Black, and only Black, and began to chant:



Black gave a shudder, rolled over, and lay motionless on the ground,
pale as death.

He'll be all right. I'm going to go and live with him.





 Hermione whispered, 


But she couldn't do it. The dementors were closing in, barely ten feet
from them. They formed a solid wall around Harry and Hermione, and were
getting closer....


 Harry yelled, trying to blot the screaming from his
ears. 


A thin wisp of silver escaped his wand and hovered like mist before him.
At the same moment, Harry felt Hermione collapse next to him. He was
alone... completely alone....




Harry felt his knees hit the cold grass. Fog was clouding his eyes. With
a huge effort, he fought to remember -- Sirius was innocent -- innocent
-- We'll be okay -- I' mgoing to live with him --


 he gasped.

By the feeble light of his formless Patronus, He saw a dementor halt,
very close to him. It couldn't walk through the cloud of silver mist
Harry had conjured. A dead, slimy hand slid out from under the cloak. It
made a gesture as though to sweep the Patronus aside.


 Harry gasped. 
s innocent... expecto expecto patronum
--"

He could feet them watching him, hear their rattling breath like an evil
wind around him. The nearest dementor seemed to be considering him. Then
it raised both its rotting hands -- and lowered its hood.

Where there should have been eyes, there was only thin, gray scabbed
skin, stretched blankly over empty sockets. But there was a mouth... a
gaping, shapeless hole, sucking the air with the sound of a death
rattle.

A paralyzing terror filled Harry so that he couldn
t see... and in the distance, he heard the familiar screaming...
expecto patronum... he groped in the mist for Sirius, and found his
arm... they weren
s neck. They were forcing his face upward.... He could feel its
breath.... It was going to get rid of him first.... He could feel its
putrid breath.... His mother was screaming in his ears.... She was going
to be the last thing he ever heard --

And then, through the fog that was drowning him, he thought he saw a
silvery light growing brighter and brighter... He felt himself fall
forward onto the grass.... Facedown, too weak to move, sick and shaking,
Harry opened his eyes. The dementor must have released him. The blinding
light was illuminating the grass around him.... The screaming had
stopped, the cold was ebbing away...

Something was driving the dementors back.... It was circling around him
and Black and Hermione.... They were leaving....

The air was warm again....

With every ounce of strength he could muster, Harry raised his head a
few inches and saw an animal amid the light, galloping away across the
lake.... Eyes blurred with sweat, Harry tried to make out what it
was.... It was as bright as a unicorn.... Fighting to stay conscious,
Harry watched it canter to a halt as it reached the opposite shore. For
a moment, Harry saw, by its brightness, somebody welcoming it back...
raising his hand to pat it... someone who looked strangely familiar ...
but it couldn
t understand. He couldn
S SECRET

Shocking business... shocking... miracle none of them died... never
heard the like... by thunder, it was lucky you were there, Snape...."

"Thank you, Minister."

"Order of Merlin, Second Class, I






ve got there.... Black









t responsible for their actions. On the other
hand, their interference might have permitted Black to escape.... They
obviously thought they were going to catch Black single-handed. They
m afraid it



ve all got a bit of a
blind spot where he








Harry lay listening with his eyes tight shut. He felt very groggy. The
words he was hearing seemed to be traveling very slowly from his ears to
his brain, so that it was difficult to understand.... His limbs felt
like lead; his eyelids too heavy to lift.... He wanted to lie here, on
this comfortable bed, forever....


ve really
no idea what made them retreat, Snape?"

"No, Minister... by the time I had come 








There was a pause. Harry's brain seemed to be moving a little faster,
and as it did, a gnawing sensation grew in the pit of his stomach....

He opened his eyes.

Everything was slightly blurred. Somebody had removed his glasses. He
was lying in the dark hospital wing. At the very end of the ward, he
could make out Madam Pomfrey with her back to him, bending over a bed.
Harry squinted. Ron's red hair was visible beneath Madam Pomfrey's arm.

Harry moved his head over on the pillow. In the bed to his right lay
Hermione. Moonlight was falling across her bed. Her eyes were open too.
She looked petrified, and when she saw that Harry was awake, pressed a
finger to her lips, then pointed to the hospital wing door. It was ajar,
and the voices of Cornelius Fudge and Snape were coming through it from
the corridor outside.

Madam Pomfrey now came walking briskly up the dark ward to Harry's bed.
He turned to took at her. She was carrying the largest block of
chocolate he had ever seen in his life. It looked like a small boulder.


re awake!" she said briskly. She placed the chocolate on
Harry
How's Ron?
He'll live, said Madam Pomfrey grimly. 
ll be
staying here until I
re -- Potter, what do you think
you


Harry was sitting up, putting his glasses back on, and picking up his
wand.


 he said.


 said Madam Pomfrey soothingly, 
s all right. They
s locked away upstairs. The dementors will be performing the
kiss any moment now --"

"WHAT?"

Harry jumped up out of bed; Hermione had done the same. But his shout
had been heard in the corridor outside; next second, Cornelius Fudge and
Snape had entered the ward.

"Harry, Harry, what
 said Fudge, looking agitated. 
 he asked Madam Pomfrey
anxiously.


 Harry said. 
s innocent! Peter
Pettigrew faked his own death! We saw him tonight! You can
s --"

But Fudge was shaking his head with a small smile on his face.

"Harry, Harry, you
ve been through a dreadful
ordeal, lie back down, now, we



T!" Harry yelled. "YOUVE GOT THE WRONG MAN!"

"Minister, listen, please," Hermione said; she had hurried to Harry
s face. "I saw him too. It
was Ron
s an Animagus, Pettigrew, I mean, and --"

"You see, Minister?" said Snape. "Confunded, both of them.... Black
 
RE NOT CONFUNDED!" Harry roared.

"Minister! Professor!" said Madam Pomfrey angrily. "I must insist that
you leave. Potter is my patient, and he should not be distressed!"

"I
m trying to tell them what happened!" Harry said
furiously. "If they


But Madam Pomfrey suddenly stuffed a large chunk of chocolate into
Harry's mouth; he choked, and she seized the opportunity to force him
back onto the bed.


Professor Dumbledore, Sirius Black --
For heaven's sake!
Is this a
hospital wing or not? Headmaster, I must insist --
My apologies, Poppy, but I need a word with Mr. Potter and Miss
Granger,
I have just been talking to Sirius
Black --
I suppose he's told you the same fairy tale he's planted in Potter's
mind?
Something about a rat, and Pettigrew being alive --
That, indeed, is Black's story,
And does my evidence count for nothing?
Peter
Pettigrew was not in the Shrieking Shack, nor did I see any sign of him
on the grounds.
That was because you were knocked out, Professor!
You didn't arrive in time to hear





 said Fudge, startled, 



 said Dumbledore
abruptly. 



 sputtered Madam Pomfrey. 



 said Dumbledore. 


Madam Pomfrey pursed her lips and strode away into her office at the end
of the ward, slamming the door behind her. Fudge consulted the large
gold pocket watch dangling from his waistcoat.


 he said. 
ll go and meet
them. Dumbledore, I


He crossed to the door and held it open for Snape, but Snape hadn't
moved.


t believe a word of Black
 Snape whispered, his
eyes fixed on Dumbledore's face.


 Dumbledore repeated.

Snape took a step toward Dumbledore.


 he
breathed. 
t forgotten that, Headmaster? You haven



 said Dumbledore quietly.

Snape turned on his heel and marched through the door Fudge was still
holding. It closed behind them, and Dumbledore turned to Harry and
Hermione. They both burst into speech at the same time.


s telling the truth -- we saw Pettigrew "-- he escaped
when Professor Lupin turned into a werewolf --"

"-- he



s front paw, I mean, finger, he cut it off --"

"-- Pettigrew attacked Ron, it wasn


But Dumbledore held up his hand to stem the flood of explanations.


 he said quietly. 
s story, except your word -- and the word of two
thirteen-year-old wizards will not convince anybody. A street full of
eyewitnesses swore they saw Sirius murder Pettigrew. I myself gave
evidence to the Ministry that Sirius had been the Potters



 Harry said, unable to stop himself








s version of events is far more convincing than
yours."

"He hates Sirius," Hermione said desperately. "All because of some
stupid trick Sirius played on him --"

"Sirius has not acted like an innocent man. The attack on the Fat Lady
-- entering Gryffindor Tower with a knife -- without Pettigrew, alive or
dead, we have no chance of overturning Sirius






 said Dumbledore quietly. 


Harry stared up into the grave face and felt as though the ground
beneath him were falling sharply away. He had grown used to the idea
that Dumbledore could solve anything. He had expected Dumbledore to pull
some amazing solution out of the air. But no ... their last hope was
gone.


 said Dumbledore slowly, and his light blue eyes moved
from Harry to Hermione, 



 Hermione began. And then her eyes became very round. 



 said Dumbledore, speaking very low, and very
clearly. 
s office on the seventh
floor. Thirteenth window from the right of the West Tower. If all goes
well, you will be able to save more than one innocent life tonight. But
remember this, both of you: you must not be seen. Miss Granger, you know
the law -- you know what is at stake.... You -- must -- not -- be --
seen."

Harry didn
I am going to lock you in. It is --
five
minutes to midnight. Miss Granger, three turns should do it. Good luck.
Good luck?
Three
turns? What's he talking about? What are we supposed to do?
Harry, come here,
Quick!
Here --
Ready?
What are we doing?
t hear his own voice --

And then he felt solid ground beneath his feet, and everything came into
focus again --

He was standing next to Hermione in the deserted entrance hall and a
stream of golden sunlight was falling across the paved floor from the
open front doors. He looked wildly around at Hermione, the chain of the
hourglass cutting into his neck.

"Hermione, what --?"

"In here!" Hermione seized Harry
What -- how -- Hermione, what happened?
We've gone back in time,
s neck in the darkness. "Three hours back..."

Harry found his own leg and gave it a very hard pinch. It hurt a lot,
which seemed to rule out the possibility that he was having a very
bizarre dream.

"But --"

"Shh! Listen! Someone

Hermione had her ear pressed against the cupboard door.


s us going down to
Hagrid



 Harry whispered, 
re here in this cupboard
and we



 said Hermione, her ear still glued to the cupboard door. 
m
sure it
t sound like more than three people... and we
re under the Invisibility Cloak -- "

She broke off, still listening intently.

"We


Hermione sat down on an upturned bucket, looking desperately anxious,
but Harry wanted a few questions answered.





s called a Time-Turner," Hermione whispered, "and I got it from
Professor McGonagall on our first day back. I
t
tell anyone. She had to write all sorts of letters to the Ministry of
Magic so I could have one. She had to tell them that I was a model
student, and that I
ve been turning it back so I could do hours over again,
that
ve been doing several lessons at once, see? But...

"Harry, I don
s that going to help Sirius?"

Harry stared at her shadowy face.

"There must be something that happened around now he wants us to
change," he said slowly. "What happened? We were walking down to
Hagrid



s," said
Hermione. "We just heard ourselves leaving...."

Harry frowned; he felt as though he were screwing up his whole brain in
concentration.

"Dumbledore just said -- just said we could save more than one innocent
life...." And then it hit him. "Hermione, we






s office! Where they
ve got to fly
Buckbeak up to the window and rescue Sirius! Sirius can escape on
Buckbeak -- they can escape together!"

From what Harry could see of Hermione
If we manage that without being seen, it'll be a miracle!
Well, we've got to try, haven't we?
Doesn't sound like anyone's there....
Come on, let's go.
If anyone's looking out of the window --
We'll run for it,
Straight into the forest,
all right? We'll have to hide behind a tree or something and keep a
lookout --
Okay, but we'll go around by the greenhouses!
We need to keep out of sight of Hagrid's front door, or
we'll see us! We must be nearly at Hagrid's by now!
Right,
We need to sneak over to Hagrid's.... Keep out of
sight, Harry....
s house, they
heard a knock upon his door. They moved quickly behind a wide oak trunk
and peered out from either side. Hagrid had appeared in his doorway,
shaking and white, looking around to see who had knocked. And Harry
heard his own voice.

"It
re wearing the Invisibility Cloak. Let us in and we can
take it off."

"Yeh shouldn
 Hagrid whispered. He stood back, then shut the
door quickly.


ve ever done," Harry said fervently.

"Let
 Hermione whispered. 


They crept through the trees until they saw the nervous hippogriff,
tethered to the fence around Hagrid's pumpkin patch.


 Harry whispered.


 said Hermione. 
ve got to wait until they
s
tied outside!"

"That
 said Harry. This was
starting to seem impossible.

At that moment, there was a crash of breaking china from inside Hagrid's
cabin.


s Hagrid breaking the milk jug," Hermione whispered. "I


Sure enough, a few minutes later, they heard Hermione's shriek of
surprise.


 said Harry suddenly, 



 said Hermione in a terrified whisper. 
t you understand? We
s supposed to
change time, nobody! You heard Dumbledore, if we



d only be seen by ourselves and Hagrid!"

"Harry, what do you think you
s house?" said Hermione.

"I
d think I
 said Harry, 
d think there was
some Dark Magic going on --"

"Exactly! You wouldn
t
you see? Professor McGonagall told me what awful things have happened
when wizards have meddled with time.... Loads of them ended up killing
their past or future selves by mistake!"

"Okay!" said Harry. "It was just an idea, I just thought

But Hermione nudged him and pointed toward the castle. Harry moved his
head a few inches to get a clear view of the distant front doors.
Dumbledore, Fudge, the old Committee member, and Macnair the executioner
were coming down the steps.

"We
 Hermione breathed.

And sure enough, moments later, Hagrid's back door opened, and Harry saw
himself, Ron, and Hermione walking out of it with Hagrid. It was,
without a doubt, the strangest sensation of his life, standing behind
the tree, and watching himself in the pumpkin patch.


s Okay, Beaky, it
 Hagrid said to Buckbeak. Then he turned
to Harry, Ron, and Hermione. 
."

"Hagrid, we can



ll tell them what really happened

"They can



s bad enough without you lot in trouble an


Harry watched the Hermione in the pumpkin patch throw the Invisibility
Cloak over him and Ron.


 listen...."

There was a knock on Hagrid
Where is the beast?
Out -- outside,
s face appeared at
Hagrid
We -- er -- have to read you the official notice of execution, Hagrid.
I'll make it quick. And then you and Macnair need to sign it. Macnair,
You're supposed to listen too, that's procedure --
s face vanished from the window. It was now or never.

"Wait here," Harry whispered to Hermione. "I


As Fudge's voice started again, Harry darted out from behind his tree,
vaulted the fence into the pumpkin patch, and approached Buckbeak.




Careful not to blink, Harry stared up into Buckbeak's fierce orange eyes
once more and bowed. Buckbeak sank to his scaly knees and then stood up
again. Harry began to fumble with the knot of rope tying Buckbeak to the
fence.


s appointed executioner, Walden Macnai..."

"Come on, Buckbeak," Harry murmured, "come on, we





Harry threw all his weight onto the rope, but Buckbeak had dug in his
front feet.


s get this over with," said the reedy voice of the Committee
member from inside Hagrid
Hagrid, perhaps it will be better if
you stay inside --
No, I -- I wan' ter be with him.... I don' wan' him ter be alone --
Buckbeak, move!
s neck. The hippogriff
began to walk, rustling its wings irritably. They were still ten feet
away from the forest, in plain view of Hagrid
One moment,
please, Macnair,
s voice. "You need to sign too." The
footsteps stopped. Harry heaved on the rope. Buckbeak snapped his beak
and walked a little faster.

Hermione
Harry, hurry!
s voice talking from within the cabin.
He gave the rope another wrench. Buckbeak broke into a grudging trot.
They had reached the trees....

"Quick! Quick!" Hermione moaned, darting out from behind her tree,
seizing the rope too and adding her weight to make Buckbeak move faster.
Harry looked over his shoulder; they were now blocked from sight; they
couldn
s garden at all.

"Stop!" he whispered to Hermione. "They might hear us

Hagrid
Where is it?
Where is
the beast?
It was tied here!



 said Dumbledore. There was a note of amusement in
his voice.


 said Hagrid huskily.

There was a swishing noise, and the thud of an axe. The executioner
seemed to have swung it into the fence in anger. And then came the
howling, and this time they could hear Hagrid's words through his sobs.


s gone! Musta pulled himself
free! Beaky, yeh clever boy!"

Buckbeak started to strain against the rope, trying to get back to
Hagrid. Harry and Hermione tightened their grip and dug their heels into
the forest floor to stop him.

"Someone untied him!" the executioner was snarling. "We should search
the grounds, the forest."

"Macnair, if Buckbeak has indeed been stolen, do you really think the
thief will have led him away on foot?" said Dumbledore, still sounding
amused. "Search the skies, if you will.... Hagrid, I could do with a cup
of tea. Or a large brandy."

"O
 course, Professor," said Hagrid, who sounded weak with
happiness. "Come in, come in...."

Harry and Hermione listened closely. They heard footsteps, the soft
cursing of the executioner, the snap of the door, and then silence once
more.

"Now what?" whispered Harry, looking around.

"We
 said Hermione, who looked very shaken. 
ve gone back to the castle. Then we wait until
it
s window. He won


She looked nervously over her shoulder into the depths of the forest.
The sun was setting now.


re going to have to move," said Harry, thinking hard. "We
t know what



 said Hermione, getting a firmer grip on Buckbeak's rope. 
ve got to keep out of sight, Harry, remember...."

They moved around the edge of the forest, darkness falling thickly
around them, until they were hidden behind a clump of trees through
which they could make out the Willow.

"There
 said Harry suddenly.

A dark figure was sprinting across the lawn and its shout echoed through
the still night air.




And then they saw two more figures materialize out of nowhere. Harry
watched himself and Hermione chasing after Ron. Then he saw Ron dive.





s Sirius!" said Harry. The great shape of the dog had bounded out
from the roots of the Willow. They saw him bowl Harry over, then seize
Ron....

"Looks even worse from here, doesn
 said Harry, watching the dog
pulling Ron into the roots. 


The Whomping Willow was creaking and lashing out with its lower
branches; they could see themselves darting here and there, trying to
reach the trunk. And then the tree froze.


 said Hermione.


 Harry muttered. 
re in."

The moment they disappeared, the tree began to move again. Seconds
later, they heard footsteps quite close by. Dumbledore, Macnair, Fudge,
and the old Committee member were making their way up to the castle.

"Right after we
 said Hermione. 



ve come too," said Harry bitterly. "I bet you
anything Fudge would


They watched the four men climb the castle steps and disappear from
view. For a few minutes the scene was deserted. Then --


 said Harry as they saw another figure sprinting down
the stone steps and hating toward the Willow. Harry looked up at the
sky. Clouds were obscuring the moon completely.

They watched Lupin seize a broken branch from the ground and prod the
knot on the trunk. The tree stopped fighting, and Lupin, too,
disappeared into the gap in its roots.


d only grabbed the cloak," said Harry. "It


He turned to Hermione.


d never be able to get
it and --"

"Harry, we mustn



 he asked Hermione fiercely. 
 He hesitated. 
m going to grab the
cloak!"

"Harry, no!"

Hermione seized the back of Harry
See?
See what would have happened? We've got to
keep out of sight! No, Buckbeak!
s fists clenched as they watched Snape skid to a halt next to the
tree, looking around. He grabbed the cloak and held it up.

"Get your filthy hands off it," Harry snarled under his breath. "Shh!"

Snape seized the branch Lupin had used to freeze the tree, prodded the
knot, and vanished from view as he put on the cloak.

"So that
 said Hermione quietly. 
re all down there... and now
we


She took the end of Buckbeak's rope and tied it securely around the
nearest tree, then sat down on the dry ground, arms around her knees.


s something I don
t the
dementors get Sirius? I remember them coming, and then I think I passed
out... there were so many of them...."

Harry sat down too. He explained what he
s, a large silver something had
come galloping across the lake and forced the dementors to retreat.

Hermione
But what was it?
There's only one thing it could have been, to make the dementors go,
A real Patronus. A powerful one.
But who conjured it?
t say anything. He was thinking back to the person he
Didn't you see what they looked like?
Was it
one of the teachers?
No,
He wasn't a teacher.
But it must have been a really powerful wizard, to drive all those
dementors away... If the Patronus was shining so brightly, didn't it
light him up? Couldn't you see --?
Yeah, I saw him,
But... maybe I imagined it.... I
wasn't thinking straight.... I passed out right afterward....
Who did you think it was?
 Harry swallowed, knowing how strange this was going to
sound. I think it was my dad.
Harry, your dad's -- well -- dead,
I know that,
You think you saw his ghost?
I don't know... no... he looked solid....
But then --
Maybe I was seeing things,
But... from what I could
see... it looked like him.... I've got photos of him....
 said Harry flatly. He turned to took at
Buckbeak, who was digging his beak into the ground, apparently searching
for worms. But he wasn't really watching Buckbeak.

He was thinking about his father and about his father's three oldest
friends... Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs.... Had all four of them
been out on the grounds tonight? Wormtail had reappeared this evening
when everyone had thought he was dead.... Was it so impossible his
father had done the same? Had he been seeing things across the take? The
figure had been too far away to see distinctly... yet he had felt sure,
for a moment, before he'd lost consciousness....

The leaves overhead rustled faintly in the breeze. The moon drifted in
and out of sight behind the shifting clouds. Hermione sat with her face
turned toward the Willow, waiting.

And then, at last, after over an hour...


 Hermione whispered.

She and Harry got to their feet. Buckbeak raised his head. They saw
Lupin, Ron, and Pettigrew clambering awkwardly out of the hole in the
roots. Then came Hermione... then the unconscious Snape, drifting
weirdly upward. Next came Harry and Black. They all began to walk toward
the castle.

Harry's heart was starting to beat very fast. He glanced up at the sky.
Any moment now, that cloud was going to move aside and show the moon....


 Hermione muttered as though she knew exactly what he was
thinking, 
ve got to stay put. We mustn
s nothing we
can do...."

"So we
How do you expect to find a rat in the dark?
There's nothing we can do! We came back to help Sirius; we're not
supposed to be doing anything else!
All right!
There goes Lupin,
He's transforming


 said Harry suddenly. 
ve got to move!"

"We mustn



s going to run into the forest, right at us!"

Hermione gasped.

"Quick!" she moaned, dashing to untie Buckbeak. "Quick! Where are we
going to go? Where are we going to hide? The dementors wilt be coming
any moment --"

"Back to Hagrid
 Harry said. 
s empty now -- come on!"

They ran as fast as they could, Buckbeak cantering along behind them.
They could hear the werewolf howling behind them....

The cabin was in sight; Harry skidded to the door, wrenched it open, and
Hermione and Buckbeak flashed past him; Harry threw himself in after
them and bolted the door. Fang the boarhound barked loudly.

"Shh, Fang, it
 said Hermione, hurrying over and scratching his
ears to quieten him. 
 she said to Harry.




Harry was looking out of the window. It was much harder to see what was
going on from here. Buckbeak seemed very happy to find himself back
inside Hagrid's house. He lay down in front of the fire, folded his
wings contentedly, and seemed ready for a good nap.


d better go outside again, you know," said Harry slowly. "I
can
s going on -- we won
s time --"

Hermione looked up. Her expression was suspicious.

"I
 said Harry quickly. 
t see what
re we going to know when it



ll wait here with Buckbeak... but Harry, be
careful -- there
s
door. You must not be seen. But he didn
t
have to get near them....

Harry began to run. He had no thought in his head except his father...
If it was him... if it really was him... he had to know, had to find
out....

The lake was coming nearer and nearer, but there was no sign of anybody.
On the opposite bank, he could see tiny glimmers of silver -- his own
attempts at a Patronus --

There was a bush at the very edge of the water. Harry threw himself
behind it, peering desperately through the leaves. On the opposite bank,
the glimmers of silver were suddenly extinguished. A terrified
excitement shot through him -- any moment now --

"Come on!" he muttered, staring about. "Where are you? Dad, come on --"

But no one came. Harry raised his head to look at the circle of
dementors across the lake. One of them was lowering its hood. It was
time for the rescuer to appear -- but no one was coming to help this
time --

And then it hit him -- he understood. He hadn
EXPECTO PATRONUM! 
t a horse. It wasn
Prongs, 
What did you do?
You said you were only going to
keep a lookout!
I just saved all our lives...,
Get behind here -- behind
this bush -- I'll explain.
Did anyone see you?
Yes, haven't you been listening? I saw me but I thought I was my dad!
It's okay!
Harry, I can't believe it.... You conjured up a Patronus that drove
away all those dementors! That's very, very advanced magic. I knew I
could do it this time,
because I'd already done it....
Does that make sense?
I don't know -- Harry, look at Snape!
Right, it's nearly time,
We've got about forty-five minutes until Dumbledore locks the door to
the hospital wing. We've got to rescue Sirius and get back into the ward
before anybody realizes we're missing.... 11

They waited, watching the moving clouds reflected in the lake, while the
bush next to them whispered in the breeze. Buckbeak, bored, was
ferreting for worms again.


 you reckon he
 said Harry, checking his watch. He
looked up at the castle and began counting the windows to the right of
the West Tower.


 Hermione whispered. 
s that? Someone


Harry stared through the darkness. The man was hurrying across the
grounds, toward one of the entrances. Something shiny glinted in his
belt.


 said Harry. 
s gone to get the dementors!
This is it, Hermione --"

Hermione put her hands on Buckbeak
s rope back over his neck
and tied it to the other side of his collar like reins.

"Ready?" he whispered to Hermione. "YotM better hold on to me --

He nudged Buckbeak
Oh, no -- I don't like this oh, I really don't like this
--
Whoa!
He's there!
s wings fell, was able to tap
sharply on the glass.

Black looked up. Harry saw his jaw drop. He leapt from his chair,
hurried to the window and tried to open it, but it was locked.

"Stand back!" Hermione called to him, and she took out her wand, still
gripping the back of Harry
Alohomora!
How -- how --?
Get on -- there's not much time,
You've got to get
out of here -the dementors are coming -- Macnair's gone to get them.
s back and pull
himself onto the hippogriff behind Hermione.

"Okay, Buckbeak, up!" said Harry, shaking the rope. "Up to the tower --
come on.

The hippogriff gave one sweep of its mighty wings and they were soaring
upward again, high as the top of the West Tower. Buckbeak landed with a
clatter on the battlements, and Harry and Hermione slid off him at once.

"Sirius, you
 Harry panted. 
ll reach
Flitwick
ll find out you


Buckbeak pawed the ground, tossing his sharp head.


 croaked Sirius.


s going to be okay. He
ll be able to make him better. Quick -- go --"

But Black was still staring down at Harry.

"How can I ever thank --"

"GO!" Harry and Hermione shouted together.

Black wheeled Buckbeak around, facing the open sky.

"We
 he said. 
s
son, Harry...."

He squeezed Buckbeak


Hermione was tugging at his sleeve, staring at her watch. 
ve got
exactly ten minutes to get back down to the hospital wing without
anybody seeing us -- before Dumbledore locks the door --"

"Okay," said Harry, wrenching his gaze from the sky, "let


They slipped through the doorway behind them and down a tightly
spiraling stone staircase. As they reached the bottom of it, they heard
voices. They flattened themselves against the wall and listened. It
sounded like Fudge and Snape. They were walking quickly along the
corridor at the foot of the staircase.


s not going to make difficulties," Snape was
saying. "The Kiss will be performed immediately?"

"As soon as Macnair returns with the dementors. This whole Black affair
has been highly embarrassing. I can
m looking
forward to informing the Daily Prophet that we
ll want to interview you, Snape... and once young Harry
ll want to tell the Prophet exactly
how you saved him...."

Harry clenched his teeth. He caught a glimpse of Snape
s hiding place. Their footsteps died
away. Harry and Hermione waited a few moments to make sure they
Peeves!
s wrist. "In here!"

They tore into a deserted classroom to their left just in time. Peeves
seemed to be bouncing along the corridor in boisterous good spirits,
laughing his head off.

"Oh, he
 whispered Hermione, her ear to the door. 
s all excited because the dementors are going to finish off
Sirius...." She checked her watch. "Three minutes, Harry!"

They waited until Peeves
Hermione -- what'll happen -- if we don't get back inside before
Dumbledore locks the door?
t want to think about it!" Hermione moaned, checking her watch
again. "One minute!"

They had reached the end of the corridor with the hospital wing
entrance. "Okay -- I can hear Dumbledore," said Hermione tensely. "Come
on, Harry!"

They crept along the corridor. The door opened. Dumbledore
I am going to lock you in,
it is five minutes
to midnight. Miss Granger, three turns should do It. Good luck.
Well?
We did it!
Sirius has gone, on Buckbeak....
Well done. I think --
Yes, I think you've gone too -- get inside -- I'll lock
you in --
Did I hear the headmaster leaving? Am I allowed to look after my
patients now?
What was that?
Really -- they'll wake everybody up! What do they think they're doing?
He must have Disapparated, Severus. We should have left somebody in the
room with him. When this gets out --
HE DIDN'T DISAPPARATE!
YOU
CAN'T APPARATE OR DISAPPARATE INSIDE THIS CASTLE! THIS -- HAS --
SOMETHING -- TO -- DO -- WITH -- POTTER!
Severus -- be reasonable -- Harry has been locked up --
OUT WITH IT, POTTER!
WHAT DID YOU DO?
Professor Snape!
Control yourself!
See here, Snape, be reasonable,
This door's been locked,
we just saw --
THEY HELPED HIM ESCAPE, I KNOW IT!
Calm down, man!
You're talking nonsense!
YOU DON'T KNOW POTTER!
HE DID IT, I KNOW HE DID IT
--
That will do, Severus,
Think about what you
are saying. This door has been locked since I left the ward ten minutes
ago. Madam Pomfrey, have these students left their beds?
Of course not!
I would have heard
them!
Well, there you have it, Severus,
Unless you
are suggesting that Harry and Hermione are able to be in two places at
once, I'm afraid I don't see any point in troubling them further.
Fellow seems quite unbalanced,
I'd
watch out for him if I were you, Dumbledore.
Oh, he's not unbalanced,
He's just suffered
a severe disappointment.
He's not the only one!
The Daily Prophet's going to
have a field day! We had Black cornered and he slipped through our
fingers yet again! All it needs now is for the story of that
hippogriff's escape to get out, and I'll be a laughingstock! Well... I'd
better go and notify the Ministry.....


 said Dumbledore. 
ll be removed from the
school, I trust?"

"Oh yes, they
 said Fudge, running his fingers

distractedly through his hair. 
d attempt to
administer the Kiss on an innocent boy... Completely out of control...
no, I



 said Dumbledore, smiling at Harry and
Hermione. As he and Fudge left the dormitory, Madam Pomfrey hurried to
the door and locked it again. Muttering angrily to herself, she headed
back to her office.

There was a low moan from the other end of the ward. Ron had woken up.
They could see him sitting up, rubbing his head, looking around.


 he groaned. 
s
Sirius? Where
s going on?"

Harry and Hermione looked at each other.

"You explain," said Harry, helping himself to some more chocolate.

When Harry, Ron, and Hermione left the hospital wing at noon the next
day, it was to find an almost deserted castle. The sweltering, heat and
the end of the exams meant that everyone was taking full advantage of
another Hogsmeade visit. Neither Ron nor Hermione felt like going,
however, so they and Harry wandered onto the grounds, still talking
about the extraordinary events of the previous night and wondering where
Sirius and Buckbeak were now. Sitting near the lake, watching the giant
squid waving its tentacles lazily above the water, Harry lost the thread
of the conversation as he looked across to the opposite bank. The stag
had galloped toward him from there just last night....

A shadow fell across them and they looked 
Know I shouldn' feel happy, after wha' happened las' night,
I mean, Black escapin' again, an, everythin' -- but guess what?
What?
Beaky! He escaped! He's free! Bin celebratin' all night!
That's wonderful!
Yeah... can't've tied him up properly,
I was worried this mornin', mind... thought he mighta
met Professor Lupin on the grounds, but Lupin says he never ate anythin'
las' night....
What?
Blimey, haven' yeh heard?
Er -- Snape
told all the Slytherins this mornin'.... Thought everyone'd know by
now... Professor Lupin's a werewolf, see. An' he was loose on the
grounds las' night.... He's packin' now, o' course.


s packing?" said Harry, alarmed. "Why?"

"Leavin
 he?" said Hagrid, looking surprised that Harry had to
ask. "Resigned firs
. Says he can
I'm going to see him,
But if he's resigned --
-- doesn't sound like there's anything we can do --
I don't care. I still want to see him. I'll meet you back here.
s office door was open. He had already packed most of his things.
The grindylow
I saw you coming,
s Map.

"I just saw Hagrid," said Harry. "And he said you
s not
true, is it?"

"I
 said Lupin. He started opening his desk drawers and
taking out the contents.


 said Harry. 
t think you were helping
Sirius, do they?"

Lupin crossed to the door and closed it behind Harry.

"No. Professor Dumbledore managed to convince Fudge that I was trying to
save your lives." He sighed. "That was the final straw for Severus. I
think the loss of the Order of Merlin hit him hard. So he -- er --
accidentally let slip that I am a werewolf this morning at breakfast."

"You
 said Harry.

Lupin smiled wryly.





re the best Defense Against the Dark Arts- teacher we

said Harry. 
t go!"

Lupin shook his head and didn
From what the headmaster told me this
morning, you saved a lot of lives last night, Harry. if I'm proud of
anything I've done this year, it's how much you've learned.... Tell me
about your Patronus.
How d'you know about that?
What else could have driven the dementors back?
d finished, Lupin was
smiling again.

"Yes, your father was always a stag when he transformed," he said. "You
guessed right... that


Lupin threw his last few books into his case, closed the desk drawers,
and turned to look at Harry.


 he said,
handing Harry back the Invisibility Cloak. 
 He hesitated, then
held out the Marauder's Map too. 
t feel guilty about giving you back this as well. It


Harry took the map and grinned.


ve wanted to
lure me out of school... you said they



 said Lupin, now reaching down to close his case.



There was a knock on the door. Harry hastily stuffed the Marauder's Map
and the Invisibility Cloak into his pocket.

It was Professor Dumbledore. He didn't look surprised to see Harry
there.


 he said.




Lupin picked up his old suitcase and the empty grindylow tank.


 he said, smiling. 
ll meet again sometime.
Headmaster, there is no need to see me to the gates, I can manage...."

Harry had the impression that Lupin wanted to leave as quickly as
possible.

"Good-bye, then, Remus," said Dumbledore soberly. Lupin shifted the
grindylow tank slightly so that he and Dumbledore could shake hands.
Then, with a final nod to Harry and a swift smile, Lupin left the
office.

Harry sat down in his vacated chair, staring glumly at the floor. He
heard the door close and looked up. Dumbledore was still there.

"Why so miserable, Harry?" he said quietly. "You should be very proud of
yourself after last night."

"It didn
 said Harry bitterly. 



t make any difference?" said Dumbledore quietly, "It made all the
difference in the world, Harry. You helped uncover the truth. You saved
an innocent man from a terrible fate."

Terrible. Something stirred in Harry
s prediction!

"Professor Dumbledore -- yesterday, when I was having my Divination
exam, Professor Trelawney went very -- very strange."

"Indeed?" said Dumbledore. "Er -- stranger than usual, you mean?"

"Yes... her voice went all deep and her eyes rolled and she said ... she
said Voldemort

Harry stared up at Dumbledore. 
t remember anything she


Dumbledore looked mildly impressed.


 he said thoughtfully.

d have thought it? That brings her total of real predictions up to
two. I should offer her a pay raise...."

"But --" Harry looked at him, aghast. How could Dumbledore take this so
calmly?

"But -- I stopped Sirius and Professor Lupin from killing Pettigrew!
That makes it my fault if Voldemort comes back!"

"It does not," said Dumbledore quietly. "Hasn
s life."

"But if he helps Voldemort back to power

"Pettigrew owes his life to you. You have sent Voldemort a deputy who is
in your debt.... When one wizard saves another wizard
m much mistaken if Voldemort wants
his servant in the debt of Harry Potter."

"I don
 said Harry. 



s
life."

Harry couldn
I knew your father very well, both at Hogwarts and later, Harry,
He would have saved Pettigrew too, I am sure of it.
t laugh -- he could tell
Dumbledore...

"I thought it was my dad who
 
 said Dumbledore softly. 
ll tire of hearing it,
but you do look extraordinarily like James. Except for the eyes... you
have your mother
It was stupid, thinking it was him,
I mean, I knew he
was dead.
You think the dead we loved ever truly leave us? You think that we
don't recall them more clearly than ever in times of great trouble? Your
father is alive in you, Harry, and shows himself most plainly when you
have need of him. How else could you produce that particular Patronus?
Prongs rode again last night.
 said
Dumbledore, smiling. 


And Dumbledore left the office, leaving Harry to his very confused
thoughts.

Nobody at Hogwarts now knew the truth of what had happened the night
that Sirius, Buckbeak, and Pettigrew had vanished except Harry, Ron,
Hermione, and Professor Dumbledore. As the end of term approached, Harry
heard many different theories about what had really happened, but none
of them came close to the truth.

Malfoy was furious about Buckbeak. He was convinced that Hagrid had
found a way of smuggling the hippogriff to safety, and seemed outraged
that he and his father had been outwitted by a gamekeeper. Percy
Weasley, meanwhile, had much to say on the subject of Sirius's escape.


ll have a lot of proposals to
make about Magical Law Enforcement!" he told the only person who would
listen -- his girlfriend, Penelope.

Though the weather was perfect, though the atmosphere was so

cheerful, though he knew they had achieved the near impossible in
helping Sirius to freedom, Harry had never approached the end of a
school year in worse spirits.

He certainly wasn
s Defense Against the Dark Arts class was
miserable about his resignation.

"Wonder what they
 said Seamus Finnigan gloomily.


 suggested Dean Thomas hopefully.

It wasn't only Professor Lupin's departure that was weighing on Harry's
mind. He couldn't help thinking a lot about Professor Trelawney's
prediction. He kept wondering where Pettigrew was now, whether he had
sought sanctuary with Voldemort yet. But the thing that was lowering
Harry's spirits most of all was the prospect of returning to the
Dursleys. For maybe half an hour, a glorious half hour, he had believed
he would be living with Sirius from now on... his parents' best
friend.... It would have been the next best thing to having his own
father back. And while no news of Sirius was definitely good news,
because it meant he had successfully gone into hiding, Harry couldn't
help feeling miserable when he thought of the home he might have had,
and the fact that it was now impossible.

The exam results came out on the last day of term. Harry, Ron, and
Hermione had passed every subject. Harry was amazed that he had got
through Potions. He had a shrewd suspicion that Dumbledore might have
stepped in to stop Snape failing him on purpose. Snape's behavior toward
Harry over the past week had been quite alarming. Harry wouldn't have
thought it possible that Snape's dislike for him could increase, but it
certainly had. A muscle twitched unpleasantly at the corner of Snape's
thin mouth every time he looked at Harry, and he was constantly flexing
his fingers, as though itching to place them around Harry's throat.

Percy had got his top-grade N.E.W.T.s; Fred and George had scraped a
handful of O.W.L.s each. Gryffindor House, meanwhile, largely thanks to
their spectacular performance in the Quidditch Cup, had won the House
championship for the third year running. This meant that the end of term
feast took place amid decorations of scarlet and gold, and that the
Gryffindor table was the noisiest of the lot, as everybody celebrated.
Even Harry managed to forget about the journey back to the Dursleys the
next day as he ate, drank, talked, and laughed with the rest.

As the Hogwarts Express pulled out of the station the next mornIng,
Hermione gave Harry and Ron some surprising news.


ve decided to drop Muggle Studies."

"But you passed your exam with three hundred and twenty percent!" said
Ron.

"I know," sighed Hermione, "but I can
ve handed it in. Without
Muggle Studies and Divination, I


I still can't believe you didn't tell us about it,
We're supposed to be your friends.
I promised I wouldn't tell anyone,
d see it again....

"Oh, cheer up, Harry!" said Hermione sadly.

"I
 said Harry quickly. 



ve been thinking about them too," said Ron. "Harry, you
ll fix it up with Mum and Dad, then I



 said Hermione. 


Ron *ignored her.


s the Quidditch World Cup this summer! How about it, Harry? Come and
stay, and we


This proposal had the effect of cheering Harry up a great deal.


d be pleased to let me come... especially
after what I did to Aunt Marge...."

Feeling considerably more cheerful, Harry joined Ron and Hermione in
several games of Exploding Snap, and when the witch with the tea cart
arrived, he bought himself a very large lunch, though nothing with
chocolate in it.

But it was late in the afternoon before the thing that made him truly
happy turned up....

"Harry," said Hermione suddenly, peering over his shoulder. "What


Harry turned to look outside. Something very small and gray was bobbing
in and out of sight beyond the glass. He stood up for a better look and
saw that it was a tiny owl, carrying a letter that was much too big for
it. The owl was so small, in fact, that it kept tumbling over in the
air, buffeted this way and that in the train's slipstream. Harry quickly
pulled down the window, stretched out his arm, and caught it. It felt
like a very fluffy Snitch. He brought it carefully inside. The owl
dropped its letter onto Harry's seat and began zooming around their
compartment, apparently very pleased with itself for accomplishing its
task. Hedwig clicked her beak with a sort of dignified disapproval.
Crookshanks sat up in his seat, following the owl with his great yellow
eyes. Ron, noticing this, snatched the owl safely out of harm's way.

Harry picked up the letter. It was addressed to him. He ripped open the
letter, and shouted, 
s from Sirius!"

"What?" said Ron and Hermione excitedly. "Read it aloud!"

Dear Harry,

I hope this finds you before you reach your aunt and uncle. I don
re used to owl post.

Buckbeak and I are in hiding. I won
t a
hope of finding me here. I am planning to allow some Muggles to glimpse
me soon, a long way from Hogwarts, so that the security on the castle
will be lifted.

There is something I never got around to telling you during our brief
meeting. It was I who sent you the Firebolt --

"Ha!" said Hermione triumphantly. "See! I told you it was from him!"

"Yes, but he hadn
 said Ron. 
 The tiny owl,
now hooting happily in his hand, had nibbled one of his fingers in what
it seemed to think was an affectionate way.

Crookshanks took the order to the Owl Office for me. I used your name
but told them to take the gold from my own Gringotts vault. Please
consider it as thirteen birthdays' worth of presents from your
godfather.

I would also like to apologize for the fright I think I gave you that
night last year when you left your uncle's house. I had only hoped to
get a glimpse of you before starting my journey north, but I think the
sight of me alarmed you.

I am enclosing something else for you, which I think will make your next
year at Hogwarts more enjoyable.

If ever you need me, send word. Your owl will find me.

I'll write again soon.

Sirius

Harry looked eagerly inside the envelope. There was another piece of
parchment in there. He read it through quickly and felt suddenly as warm
and contented as though he'd swallowed a bottle of hot butterbeer in one
gulp.

I, Sirius Black, Harry Potter's godfather, hereby give him permission to
visit Hogsmeade on weekends.


ll be good enough for Dumbledore!" said Harry happily. He looked
back at Sirius
Hang on, there's a RS....
s my fault
he no longer has a rat.

Ron
Keep
him?
s and Hermione
What do you reckon?
Definitely an owl?
That's good enough for me,
He's mine.
s Cross station. It was still clutched tightly in his hand as he,
Ron, and Hermione stepped back through the barrier of platform nine an(
I'll call about the World Cup!
s cage toward Uncle Vernon, who greeted him in his usual fashion.

"What
 he snarled, staring at the envelope Harry was still
clutching in his hand. 
s another form for me to sign, you



s not," said Harry cheerfully. "It



 sputtered Uncle Vernon. 
t got a godfather!"

"Yes, I have," said Harry brightly. "He was my mum and dad
s a convicted murderer, but he
s on the run. He likes to keep in touch with me, though... keep
up with my news... check if I
