s room.

"Third time this week!" he roared across the table. "If you can
ll have to go!"

Harry tried, yet again, to explain.

"She
 he said. 
s used to flying around outside. If I could
just let her out at night -"

"Do I look stupid?" snarled Uncle Vernon, a bit of fried egg dangling
from his bushy mustache. "I know what
s let
out."

He exchanged dark looks with his wife, Petunia.

Harry tried to argue back but his words were drowned by a long,
loud belch from the Dursleys
I want more bacon.
There's more in the frying pan, sweetums,
We must build you up while
we've got the chance .... I don't like the sound of that school food
......



said Uncle Vernon heartily. 
t you, son?"

Dudley, who was so large his bottom drooped over either side of the
kitchen chair, grinned and turned to Harry.

"Pass the frying pan."

"You
 said Harry irritably.

The effect of this simple sentence on the rest of the family was
incredible: Dudley gasped and fell off his chair with a crash that
shook the whole kitchen; Mrs. Dursley gave a small scream and
clapped her hands to her mouth; Mr. Dursley jumped to his feet,
veins throbbing in his temples.


!" said Harry quickly. "I didn



 thundered his uncle, spraying spit
over the table, 
 WORD IN OUR
HOUSE?"

"But I -"

"HOW DARE YOU THREATEN DUDLEY!" roared Uncle
Vernon, pounding the table with his fist.

"I just -"

"I WARNED YOU! I WILL NOT TOLERATE MENTION OF
YOUR ABNORMALITY UNDER THIS ROOF!"

Harry stared from his purple-faced uncle to his pale aunt, who was
trying to heave Dudley to his feet.

"All right," said Harry, "all right. . . "

Uncle Vernon sat back down, breathing like a winded rhinoceros and
watching Harry closely out of the corners of his small, sharp eyes.

Ever since Harry had come home for the summer holidays, Uncle
Vernon had been treating him like a bomb that might go off at any
moment, because Harry Potter wasn
s spellbooks, his wand, robes, cauldron, and top-of-the-line
Nimbus Two Thousand broomstick had been locked in a cupboard
under the stairs by Uncle Vernon the instant Harry had come home.
What did the Dursleys care if Harry lost his place on the House
Quidditch team because he hadn
s owl, Hedwig, inside her cage, to stop her from carrying
messages to anyone in the wizarding world.

Harry looked nothing like the rest of the family. Uncle Vernon was
large and neckless, with an enormous black mustache; Aunt Petunia
was horse-faced and bony; Dudley was blond, pink, and porky. Harry,
on the other hand, was small and skinny, with brilliant green eyes and
jet-black hair that was always untidy. He wore round glasses, and on
his forehead was a thin, lightning-shaped scar.

It was this scar that made Harry so particularly unusual, even for a
wizard. This scar was the only hint of Harry
 doorstep eleven years
before.

At the age of one year old, Harry had somehow survived a curse from
the greatest Dark sorcerer of all time, Lord Voldemort, whose name
most witches and wizards still feared to speak. Harry
s attack, but Harry had escaped with his lightning
scar, and somehow - nobody understood why Voldemort
s sister and her
husband. He had spent ten years with the Dursleys, never
understanding why he kept making odd things happen without meaning
to, believing the Dursleys
t even remembered that today happened to be
Harry
t been high; they
Now, as we all know, today is a very important day.
This could well be the day I make the biggest deal of my career, 
d been talk
ing of nothing else for two weeks. Some rich builder and his wife
were coming to dinner and Uncle Vernon was hoping to get a huge
order from him (Uncle Vernon
I think we should run through the schedule one more time,
We should all be in position at eight o'clock. Petunia,
you will be -?
In the lounge,
waiting to welcome them
graciously to our home.
Good, good. And Dudley?
I'll be waiting to open the door.
May I take your coats, Mr. and Mrs. Mason?
They'll love him!
Excellent, Dudley,
And you?
I'll be in my bedroom, making no noise and pretending I'm not
there,
Exactly,
I will lead them into the
lounge, introduce you, Petunia, and pour them -drinks. At eight-
fifteen -
I'll announce dinner,
And, Dudley, you'll say -
May I take you through to the dining room, Mrs. Mason?
My perfect little gentleman!
And you?
I'll be in my room, making no noise and pretending I'm not there,
Precisely. Now, we should aim to get in a few good compliments at
dinner. Petunia, any ideas?
Vernon tells me you're a wonderful golfer, Mr. Mason.... Do tell me
where you bought your dress, Mrs. Mason ......





We had to write an essay about our hero at school,
Mr. Mason, and I wrote about you."
t see him laughing.

"And you, boy?"

Harry fought to keep his face straight as he emerged.

"I
m not there,"
he said.

"Too right, you will," said Uncle Vernon forcefully. "The Ma
sons don
s going to stay that way.
When dinner
ll bring the subject around to drills. With any
luck, I
t feel too excited about this. He didn
Right - I'm off into town to pick up the dinner jackets for
Dudley and me. And you,
You stay out of
your aunt's way while she's cleaning.
Happy birthday to me ... happy birthday to me. . .
No cards, no presents, and he would be spending the evening
pretending not to exist. He gazed miserably into the hedge. He had
never felt so lonely. More than anything else at Hogwarts, more
even than playing Quidditch, Harry missed his best friends, Ron
Weasley and Hermione Granger. They, however, didn't seem to be
missing him at all. Neither of them had written to him all summer,
even though Ron had said he was going to ask Harry to come and
stay.
Countless times, Harry had been on the point of unlocking
Hedwig's cage by magic and sending her to Ron and Hermione
with a letter, but it wasn't worth the risk. Underage wizards weren't
allowed to use magic outside of school. Harry hadn't told the

Dursleys this; he knew it was only their terror that he might turn them
all into dung beetles that stopped them from locking him in the
cupboard under the stairs with his wand and broomstick. For the first
couple of weeks back, Harry had enjoyed muttering nonsense words
under his breath and watching Dudley tearing out of the room as fast
as his fat legs would carry him. But the long silence from Ron and
Hermione had made Harry feel so cut off from the magical world that
even taunting Dudley had lost its appeal - and now Ron and Hermione
had forgotten his birthday.

What wouldn't he give now for a message from Hogwarts? From any
witch or wizard? He'd almost be glad of a sight of his archenemy,
Draco Malfoy, just to be sure it hadn't all been a dream ....

Not that his whole year at Hogwarts had been fun. At the very end of
last term, Harry had come face-to-face with none other than Lord
Voldemort himself. Voldemort might be a ruin of his former self, but
he was still terrifying, still cunning, still determined to regain power.
Harry had slipped through Voldemort's clutches for a second time, but
it had been a narrow escape, and even now, weeks later, Harry kept
waking in the night, drenched in cold sweat, wondering where
Voldemort was now, remembering his livid face, his wide, mad eyes

Harry suddenly sat bolt upright on the garden bench. He had been
staring absent-mindedly into the hedge - and the hedge was staring back.
Two enormous green eyes had appeared among the leaves.

Harry jumped to his feet just as a jeering voice floated across the
lawn.


 sang Dudley, waddling toward him.

The huge eyes blinked and vanished.


 said Harry, not taking his eyes off the spot where they had
been.


 Dudley repeated, coming right up to him.


 said Harry. 
ve finally learned the days of the
week."

"Today
 sneered Dudley. 
t got
any cards? Haven



 said
Harry coolly.

Dudley hitched up his trousers, which were slipping down his fat
bottom.


re you staring at the hedge?" he said suspiciously.

	" I , m trying to decide what would be the best spell to set it on
fire," said Harry.

Dudley stumbled backward at once, a look of panic on his fat face.

"You c-can
re not to do m-magic - he said he
t got anywhere else to go -
you haven



 said Harry in a fierce voice. 



 howled Dudley, tripping over his feet as he dashed
back toward the house. 
s doing you know what!"

Harry paid dearly for his moment of fun. As neither Dudley nor

the hedge was in any way hurt, Aunt Petunia knew he hadn
t eat again until he
t have risen to Dudley
t have
any friends at Hogwarts ....

Wish they could see famous Harry Potter now, he thought savagely as he
spread manure on the flower beds, his back aching, sweat running
down his face.

It was half past seven ,in the evening when at last, exhausted, he
heard Aunt Petunia calling him.

"Get in here! And walk on the newspaper!"

Harry moved gladly into the shade of the gleaming kitchen. On top of
the fridge stood tonight
Eat quickly! The Masons will be here soon!
Upstairs! Hurry!
s furious face appeared at the foot of
the stairs.
"Remember, boy - one sound -"
Harry crossed to his bedroom on tiptoe slipped inside, closed
the door, and turned to collapse on his bed.
The trouble was, there was already someone sitting on it.

C H-H A P T E RR		T W o

I

DOBBY
s voice from the hall.

"May I take your coats, Mr. and Mrs. Mason?"

The creature slipped off the bed and bowed so low that the end of its
long, thin nose touched the carpet. Harry noticed that it was wearing
what looked like an old pillowcase, with rips for arm- and leg-holes.

"Er - hello," said Harry nervously.

"Harry Potter!" said the creature in a high-pitched voice Harry was
sure would carry down the stairs. "So long has Dobby wanted to meet
you, sir ... Such an honor it is . . . ."



"Th-thank you," said Harry, edging along the wall and sinking into his
desk chair, next to Hedwig, who was asleep in her large cage. He
wanted to ask, "What are you?" but thought it would sound too rude,
so instead he said, "Who are you?"

"Dobby, sir. Just Dobby. Dobby the house-elf," said the creature.

"Oh - really?" said Harry. "Er - I don
t a great time for me to have a house-elf in my
bedroom."

Aunt Petunias high, false laugh sounded from the living room. The elf
hung his head.

"Not that I
 said Harry quickly, 
re here?"

"Oh, yes, sir," said Dobby earnestly. "Dobby has come to tell you,
sir ... it is difficult, sir ... Dobby wonders where to begin . . . ."

"Sit down," said Harry politely, pointing at the bed.

To his horror, the elf burst into tears - very noisy tears.

"S-sit down!" he wailed. "Never ... never ever. . . "

Harry thought he heard the voices downstairs falter.

"I
 he whispered, 
t mean to offend you or anything -"

"Offend Dobby!" choked the elf. "Dobby has never been asked to sit
down by a wizard - like an equal-"

Harry, trying to say "Shh!" and look comforting at the same time,
ushered Dobby back onto the bed where he sat hiccoughing, looking
like a large and very ugly doll. At last he managed to control himself,
and sat with his great eyes fixed on Harry in an expression of watery
adoration.

"You can
 said Harry, trying to
cheer him up.

Dobby shook his head. Then, without warning, he leapt up and
started banging his head furiously on the window, shouting, 



t - what are you doing?" Harry hissed, springing up and pulling
Dobby back onto the bed - Hedwig had woken up with a
particularly loud screech and was beating her wings wildly against the
bars of her cage.

"Dobby had to punish himself, sir," said the elf, who had gone slightly
cross-eyed. "Dobby almost spoke ill of his family, sir . . . ."

"Your family?"

"The wizard family Dobby serves, sir... DOBBY
Do they know you're here?
Oh, no, sir, no ... Dobby will have to punish himself most grievously
for coming to see you, sir. Dobby will have to shut his ears in the
oven door for this. If they ever knew, sir _
But won't they notice if you shut your ears in the oven door?
Dobby doubts it, sir. Dobby is always having to punish himself for
something, sir. They lets Dobby get on with it, sir. Sometimes they
reminds me to do extra punishments ......


t you leave? Escape?"

"A house-elf must be set free, sir. And the family will never set
Dobby free ... Dobby will serve the family until he dies, sir . . . ."

Harry stared.

"And I thought I had it bad staying here for another four weeks,"

he said. "This makes the Dursleys sound almost human. Can
t I?"

Almost at once, Harry wished he hadn
Please,
please be quiet. If the Dursleys
hear anything, if they know you're here -
Harry Potter asks if he can help Dobby ... Dobby has heard of your
greatness, sir, but of your goodness, Dobby never knew . .....

Harry, who was feeling distinctly hot in the face, said, 
ve heard about my greatness is a load of rubbish. I
s Hermione, she -"

But he stopped quickly, because thinking about Hermione was painful.

"I-Tarry Potter is humble and modest," said Dobby reverently, his orb-
like eyes aglow. "Harry Potter speaks not of his triumph over He-Who-
Must-Not-Be-Named -"

"Voldemort?" said Harry.

Dobby clapped his hands over his bat ears and moaned, "Ah, speak not
the name, sir! Speak not the name!"

"Sorry" said Harry quickly. "I know lots of people don


He stopped again. Thinking about Ron was painful, too.

Dobby leaned toward Harry, his eyes wide as headlights.

'Dobby heard tell,
that Harry Potter met the Dark
Lord for a second time just weeks ago ... that Harry Potter escaped
Yet again. 
s eyes suddenly shone with tears.

,Ah, sir," he gasped, dabbing his face with a corner of the grubby

pillowcase he was wearing. "Harry Potter is valiant and bold! He has
braved so many dangers already! But Dobby has come to protect
Harry Potter, to warn him, even if he does have to shut his ears in
the oven door later... Harry Potter must notgo back to Hogwarts."

There was a silence broken only by the chink of knives and forks
from downstairs and the distant rumble of Uncle Vernon
W-what?
But I've got to go back - term starts
on September first. It's all that's keeping me going. You don't know
what it's like here. I don't belong here. I belong in your world - at
Hogwarts.
No, no, no,
Harry Potter must stay where he is safe. He is too great,
too good, to lose. If Harry Potter goes back to Hogwarts, he will be
in mortal danger.
Why?
There is a plot, Harry Potter. A plot to make most terrible things
happen at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry this year,
Dobby has known it
for months, sir. Harry Potter must not put himself in peril. He is too
important, sir!
What terrible things?
Who's plotting them?
All right!
s arm to stop him. "You can
 A sudden,
unpleasant thought struck him. 
t got anything to
do with Vol- - sorry - with You-Know-Who, has it?

You could just shake or nod," he added hastily as Dobby
Not -not He- Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, sir ='

But Dobby's eyes were wide and he seemed to be trying to give
Harry a hint. Harry, however, was completely lost.


t got a brother, has he?"

Dobby shook his head, his eyes wider than ever.

"Well then, I can
 said Harry. 
s
Dumbledore, for one thing - you know who Dumbledore is, don


Dobby bowed his head.


s powers
rival those of He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named at the height of his
strength. But, sir" - Dobby
there are powers Dumbledore doesn't ... powers no decent wizard.
. .
s desk lamp, and started beating himself around the
head with earsplitting yelps.

A sudden silence fell downstairs. Two seconds later Harry, heart
thudding madly, heard Uncle Vernon coming into the hall, calling,
"Dudley must have left his television on again, the little tyke!"

"Quick! In the closet!" hissed Harry, stuffing Dobby in, shutting the
door, and flinging himself onto the bed just as the door handle turned.

"What - the - devil - are - you - doing?" said Uncle Vernon through
gritted teeth, his face horribly close to Harry
You've just ruined the
punch line of my Japanese golfer joke .... One more sound and you'll
wish you'd never been born, boy!
See what it's like here?
See why I've got to go back to
Hogwarts? It's the only place I've got -well, I think I've got friends. 
Friends who don't even write to Harry Potter?
I expect they've just been - wait a minute,
How do you know my friends haven't been writing to me?
Harry Potter mustn't be angry with Dobby. Dobby did it for the best -

Have you been stopping my letters?
Dobby has them here, sir,
s
reach, he pulled a thick wad of envelopes from the inside of the
pillowcase he was wearing. Harry could make out Hermione
s untidy scrawl, and even a scribble that looked as though
it was from the Hogwarts gamekeeper, Hagrid.

Dobby blinked anxiously up at Harry.

"Harry Potter mustn
t listening. He made a grab for the letters, but Dobby
jumped out of reach.

"Harry Potter will have them, sir, if he gives Dobby his word

that he will not return to Hogwarts. Ah, sir, this is a danger you must
not face! Say you won



 said Harry angrily. 
 letters!"

"Then Harry Potter leaves Dobby no choice," said the elf sadly.

Before Harry could move, Dobby had darted to the bedroom door,
pulled it open, and sprinted down the stairs.

Mouth dry, stomach lurching, Harry sprang after him, trying not to
make a sound. He jumped the last six steps, landing catlike on the
hall carpet, looking around for Dobby. From the dining room he
heard Uncle Vernon saying, ". . . tell Petunia that very funny story
about those American plumbers, Mr. Mason. She


Harry ran up the hall into the kitchen and felt his stomach disappear.

Aunt Petunia's masterpiece of a pudding, the mountain of cream and
sugared violets, was floating up near the ceiling. On top of a
cupboard in the corner crouched Dobby.


 croaked Harry. 
ll kill me ......

"Harry Potter must say he



Say it, sir -
I can't -
Then Dobby must do it, sir, for Harry Potter's own good.
Just our nephew - very disturbed

	meeting strangers upsets him, so we kept him upstairs 	) He

shooed the shocked Masons back into the dining room, promised
Harry he would flay him to within an inch of his life when the Ma
sons had left, and handed him a mop. Aunt Petunia dug some ice
cream out of the freezer and Harry, still shaking, started scrubbing
the kitchen clean.

Uncle Vernon might still have been able to make his deal - if it hadn't
been for the owl.

Aunt Petunia was just passing around a box of after-dinner mints when
a huge barn owl swooped through the dining room window, dropped a
letter on Mrs. Mason's head, and swooped out again. Mrs. Mason
screamed like a banshee and ran from the house shouting about
lunatics. Mr. Mason stayed just long enough to tell the Dursleys that his
wife was mortally afraid of birds of all shapes and sizes, and to ask
whether this was their idea of a joke.

Harry stood in the kitchen, clutching the mop for support, as Uncle
Vernon advanced on him, a demonic glint in his tiny eyes.


 he hissed evilly, brandishing the letter the owl had delivered.



Harry took it. It did not contain birthday greetings.

Dear Mr. Potter,

We have received intelligence that a Hover Charm was used at your
place of residence this evening at twelve minutes past nine.

As you know, underage wizards are not permitted to perform spells
outside school, and further spellwork on your part may lead to
expulsion from said school (Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of
Underage Sorcery, 1875, Paragraph C).

We would also ask you to remember that any magical activity that
risks notice by members of the non-magical community (Muggles) is
a serious offense under section 13 of the International Confederation
of Warlocks' Statute of Secrecy.

Enjoy your holidays! Yours sincerely,

Mafalda Hopkirk

IMPROPER USE OF MAGIC OFFICE

Ministry of Magic

Harry looked up from the letter and gulped.


t tell us you weren

said Uncle Vernon, a mad gleam dancing in his eyes. 
Well, I've got news for you, boy . ... I'm locking you up ....
You're never going back to that school ... never ... and if you try and
magic yourself out - they'll expel you!
s window. He himself fitted a cat-
flap in the bedroom door, so that small amounts of food could be
pushed inside three times a day. They let Harry out to use the
bathroom morning and evening. Otherwise, he was locked in his room
around the clock.

Three days later, the Dursleys were showing no sign of relenting, and
Harry couldn
t going to wake
up as fruit bats, he had lost his only weapon. Dobby might have saved
Harry from horrible happenings at Hogwarts, but the way things were
going, he
s
cage and tipped the soggy vegetables at the bottom of the bowl into
her empty food tray. She ruffled her feathers and gave him a look of
deep disgust.

"It
s all we
 said
Harry grimly.

He put the empty bowl back on the floor next to the cat-flap and lay
back down on the bed, somehow even hungrier than he had been
before the soup.

Supposing he was still alive in another four weeks, what would happen
if he didn't turn up at Hogwarts? Would someone be sent to see why
he hadn't come back? Would they be able to make the Dursleys let
him go?

The room was growing dark. Exhausted, stomach rumbling, mind
spinning over the same unanswerable questions, Harry fell into an
uneasy sleep.

He dreamed that he was on show in a zoo, with a card reading
UNDERAGE WIZARD attached to his cage. People goggled through the bars
at him as he lay, starving and weak, on a bed of straw. He saw
Dobby's face in the crowd and shouted out, asking for help, but Dobby
called, 
 and vanished. Then the
Dursleys appeared and Dudley rattled the bars of the cage, laughing at
him.


 Harry muttered as the rattling pounded in his sore head.

m trying to sleep . . . ."

He opened his eyes. Moonlight was shining through the bars on the
window. And someone was goggling through the bars at him: a freckle-
faced, red-haired, long-nosed someone.

Ron Weasley was outside Harry
 breathed Harry, creeping to the window and pushing it up so
they could talk through the bars. 


Harry's mouth fell open as the full impact of what he was seeing hit
him. Ron was leaning out of the back window of an old turquoise car,
which was parked in midair Grinning at Harry from the front seats
were Fred and George, Ron's elder twin brothers.


 asked George.


s been going on?" said Ron. "Why haven
ve asked you to stay about twelve times, and then Dad
came home and said you



t me - and how did he know?"

"He works for the Ministry," said Ron. "You know we





 said Harry, staring at the floating car.


t count," said Ron. "We
s
Dad
t enchant it. But doing magic in front of those Muggles
you live with -"

"I told you, I didn
ll take too long to explain now look, can you
tell them at Hogwarts that the Dursleys have locked me up and won
t magic myself out, because the
Ministry
s the second spell I



 said Ron. 
ve come to take you home with us."

"But you can



t need to," said Ron, jerking his head toward the front seat
and grinning. "You forget who I



 said Fred, throwing the end of a rope to
Harry.


m dead," said Harry as he tied the rope
tightly around a bar and Fred revved up the car.

"Don
 said Fred, 


Harry moved back into the shadows next to Hedwig, who seemed to
have realized how important this was and kept still and silent. The car
revved louder and louder and suddenly, with a crunching noise, the
bars were pulled clean out of the window as Fred drove straight up in
the air. Harry ran back to the window to see the bars dangling a few
feet above the ground. Panting, Ron hoisted them up into the car.
Harry listened anxiously, but there was no sound from the Dursleys'
bedroom.

When the bars were safely in the back seat with Ron, Fred reversed
as close as possible to Harry's window.


 Ron said.








t get out of this
room -"

"No problem," said George from the front passenger seat. "Out of
the way, Harry."

Fred and George climbed catlike through the window into Harry
A lot of wizards think it's a waste of time, knowing this sort of
Muggle trick,
but we feel they're skills worth learning,
even if they are a bit slow.
So - we'll get your trunk - you grab anything you need from your
room and hand it out to Ron,
Watch out for the bottom stair - it creaks,
s room to the open window. Fred climbed back into
the car to pull with Ron, and Harry and George pushed from the
bedroom side. Inch by inch, the trunk slid through the window.

Uncle Vernon coughed again.

"A bit more," panted Fred, who was pulling from inside the car.
"One good push -"

Harry and George threw their shoulders against the trunk and it slid
out of the window into the back seat of the car.

"Okay, let
 George whispered.

But as Harry climbed onto the windowsill there came a sudden loud
screech from behind him, followed immediately by the thunder of
Uncle Vernon's voice.





ve forgotten Hedwig!"

Harry tore back across the room as the landing light clicked on - he
snatched up Hedwig
s arms and pulled as hard as
they could.

"Petunia!" roared Uncle Vernon. "He
S
GETTING AWAY!"

But the Weasleys gave a gigantic tug and Harry
s grasp - Harry was in the car - he
Put your foot down, Fred!
t believe it - he was free. He rolled down the

window, the night air whipping his hair, and looked back at the
shrinking rooftops of Privet Drive. Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia, and
Dudley were all hanging, dumbstruck, out of Harry
See you next summer!
Let Hedwig out,
She can fly behind us. She hasn't had
a chance to stretch her wings for ages.
So - what's the story, Harry?
What's been
happening?
d given Harry and
the fiasco of the violet pudding. There was a long, shocked silence
when he had finished.

"Very fishy," said Fred finally.

"Definitely dodgy" agreed George. "So he wouldn
s
supposed to be plotting all this stuff?"

"I don
 said Harry. 


He saw Fred and George look at each other.


 said Harry.


 said Fred, 
t usually use it without their master
s idea of a joke. Can you think of
anyone at school with a grudge against you?"

"Yes," said Harry and Ron together, instantly.

"Draco Malfoy," Harry explained. "He hates me."

"Draco Malfoy?" said George, turning around. "Not Lucius Malfoy



s not a very common name, is it?" said Harry.

Y.

"I
 said George. 



 said Fred, craning
around to look at Harry, 
d never
meant any of it. Load of dung - Dad reckons he was right in You-
Know-Who


Harry had heard these rumors about Malfoy's family before, and they
didn't surprise him at all. Malfoy made Dudley Dursley look

	like a kind, thoughtful, and sensitive boy.
	
t know whether the Malfoys own a house-elf 	said
	Harry.

"Well, whoever owns him will be an old wizarding family, and they
 said Fred.


s always wishing we had a house-elf to do the ironing,"
said George. "But all we
t catch one in our house .
. . ."

Harry was silent. Judging by the fact that Draco Malfoy usually had
the best of everything, his family was rolling in wizard gold; he

could just see Malfoy strutting around a large manor house. Sending
the family servant to stop Harry from going back to Hogwarts also
sounded exactly like the sort of thing Malfoy would do. Had Harry
been stupid to take Dobby seriously?

"I
 said Ron. 
t answer any of my letters. I thought it
was Errol



s Errol?"

"Our owl. He
t be the first time he







said Fred from the front.


t lend him to me," said Ron. "Said he needed
him."

"Percy
 said George,
frowning. 
s only so many
times you can polish a prefect badge .... You
 he added, pointing at a compass on the dashboard. Fred
twiddled the steering wheel.


ve got the car?" said Harry, guessing
the answer.

"Er, no," said Ron, "he had to work tonight. Hopefully we






 said Ron. 






s all to do with bewitching things that are Muggle-made, you
know, in case they end up back in a Muggle shop or house. Like,
last year, some old witch died and her tea set was sold to an antiques
shop. This Muggle woman bought it, took it home, and tried to serve
her friends tea in it. It was a nightmare - Dad was working overtime
for weeks."

"What happened?"

"The teapot went berserk and squirted boiling tea all over the place
and one man ended up in the hospital with the sugar tongs clamped
to his nose. Dad was going frantic - it





Fred laughed. 
s crazy about everything to do with
Muggles; our shed
d
have to put himself under arrest. It drives Mum mad."

"That
 said George, peering down through the
windshield. 
ll be there in ten minutes .... Just as well, it


A faint pinkish glow was visible along the horizon to the east.

Fred brought the car lower, and Harry saw a dark patchwork of
fields and clumps of trees.


re a little way outside the village," said George. "Ottery St.
Catchpole."

Lower and lower went the flying car. The edge of a brilliant red sun
was now gleaming through the trees.

"Touchdown!" said Fred as, with a slight bump, they hit the ground.
They had landed next to a tumbledown garage in a small yard, and
Harry looked out for the first time at Ron
It's not much,
It's wonderful,
Now, we'll go upstairs really quietly,
and wait for Mum to
call us for breakfast Then, Ron, you come bounding downstairs going,
`Mum, look who turned up in the night!' and she'll be all pleased to see
Harry and no one need ever know we flew the car.
Right,
Come on, Harry, I sleep at the - at the top

Ron had gone a nasty greenish color, his eyes fixed on the house. The
other three wheeled around.

Mrs. Weasley was marching across the yard, scattering chickens, and
for a short, plump, kind-faced woman, it was remarkable how much
she looked like a saber-toothed tiger.


said Fred.


 said George.

Mrs. Weasley came to a halt in front of them, her hands on her hips,
staring from one guilty face to the next. She was wearing a flowered
apron with a wand sticking out of the pocket.


she said.


 said George, in what he clearly thought was a jaunty,
winning voice.


ve been?" said Mrs. Weasley in a
deadly whisper.

"Sorry, Mum, but see, we had to -"

All three of Mrs. Weasley
Beds empty! No note! Cargone - could have crashed - out of my

mind with worry - did you care? - never, as long as I've lived -
you wait until your father gets home, we never had trouble like this
from Bill or Charlie or Percy -
Perfect Percy,
YOU COULD DO WITH TAKING A LEAF OUT OF PERCY'S
BOOK!
s chest. "You
could have died, you could have been seen, you could have lost your
father his job -"

It seemed to go on for hours. Mrs. Weasley had shouted herself
hoarse before she turned on Harry, who backed away.

"I
 she said. 


She turned and walked back into the house and Harry, after a nervous
glance at Ron, who nodded encouragingly, followed her.

The kitchen was small and rather cramped. There was a

scrubbed wooden table and chairs in the middle, and Harry sat down
on the edge of his seat, looking around. He had never been in a wizard
house before.

The clock on the wall opposite him had only one hand and no numbers
at all. Written around the edge were things like Time to make tea, Time
to feed the chickens, and You're late. Books were stacked three deep on
the mantelpiece, books with titles like Charm Your Own Cheese,
Enchantment in Baking, and One Minute Feasts - It's Magic! And unless
Harry's ears were deceiving him, the old radio next to the sink had just
announced that coming up was 


Mrs. Weasley was clattering around, cooking breakfast a little
haphazardly, throwing dirty looks at her sons as she threw sausages
into the frying pan. Every now and then she muttered things like 
t
know what you were thinking of," and "never would have believed it."

"I don
 she assured Harry, tipping eight or nine
sausages onto his plate. 
d come and get you ourselves if
you hadn
 (she was now
adding three fried eggs to his plate) 


She flicked her wand casually at the dishes in the sink, which began to
clean themselves, clinking gently in the background.


 said Fred.


re eating!" Mrs. Weasley
snapped.

"They were starving him, Mum!" said George.

"And you!" said Mrs. Weasley, but it was with a slightly softened
expression that she started cutting Harry bread and buttering it for
him.

At that moment there was a diversion in the form of a small,
redheaded figure in a long nightdress, who appeared in the kitchen,
gave a small squeal, and ran out again.

"Ginny," said Ron in an undertone to Harry. "My sister. She



ll be wanting your autograph, Harry," Fred said with a grin,
but he caught his mother
Blimey, I'm tired,
I think I'll go to bed and -
You will not,
It's your own fault you've
been up all night. You're going to de-gnome the garden for me; they're
getting completely out of hand again -
Oh, Mum -
And you two,
You can go up to
bed, dear,
You didn't ask them to fly that
wretched car -
I'll help Ron. I've
never seen a de-gnoming -
That's very sweet of you, dear, but it's dull work,
Now, let's see what Lockhart's got to say on the subject -
Mum, we know how to de-gnome a garden -
s book. Written across it
in fancy gold letters were the words Gilderoy Lockhart
Oh, he is marvelous,
He knows his household pests, all
right, it's a wonderful book . . . .
Mum fancies him,
Don't be so ridiculous, Fred,
All right, if you think you know better than Lockhart, you can go
and get on with it, and woe betide you if there's a single gnome in that
garden when I come out to inspect it.
s eyes, exactlY
what a garden should be. The Dursleys wouldn
Muggles have garden gnomes, too, you know,
Yeah, I've seen those things they think are gnomes,
like fat little Santa Clauses with
fishing rods . . . .
This is a gnome,
Gerroff me! Gerroff me!
s length as it kicked out at him with its horny little feet; he
grasped it around the ankles and turned it upside down.

"This is what you have to do," he said. He raised the gnome above his
head ("Gerroff me!") and started to swing it in great circles like a
lasso. Seeing the shocked look on Harry
It doesn't
hurt them - you've just got to make them really dizzy so they can't find
their way back to the gnomeholes.
s ankles: It flew twenty feet into the air and
landed with a thud in the field over the hedge.

"Pitiful," said Fred. "I bet I can get mine beyond that stump."

Harry learned quickly not to feel too sorry for the gnomes. He decided
just to drop the first one he caught over the hedge, but the gnome,
sensing weakness, sank its razor-sharp teeth into Harry
Wow, Harry - that must've been fifty feet ......

The air was soon thick with flying gnomes.


re not too bright," said George, seizing five or six gnomes at
once. "The moment they know the de-gnoming
d think they


Soon, the crowd of gnomes in the field started walking away in a
straggling line, their little shoulders hunched.


ll be back," said Ron as they watched the gnomes disappear into
the hedge on the other side of the field. "They love it here .... Dad
re funny . . . ."

Just then, the front door slammed.

"He
 said George. 
s home!"

They hurried through the garden and back into the house.

Mr. Weasley was slumped in a kitchen chair with his glasses off and
his eyes closed. He was a thin man, going bald, but the little hair he
had was as red as any of his children
What a night,
Nine raids. Nine! And old Mundungus Fletcher
tried to put a hex on me when I had my back turned ......

Mr. Weasley took a long gulp of tea and sighed.


 said Fred eagerly.


 yawned
Mr. Weasley. 
t my
department, though. Mortlake was taken away for questioning about
some extremely odd ferrets, but that
Why would anyone bother making door keys shrink?
Just Muggle-baiting,
Sell them a key that
keeps shrinking to nothing so they can never find it when they need it
.... Of course, it's very hard to convict anyone because no Muggle
would admit their key keeps shrinking - they'll insist they just keep
losing it. Bless them, they'll go to any lengths to ignore magic, even if
it's staring them in the face .... But the things our lot have taken to
enchanting, you wouldn't believe -
LIKE CARS, FOR INSTANCE?
s eyes jerked open. He stared guiltily at his wife.

"C-cars, Molly, dear?"

"Yes, Arthur, cars," said Mrs. Weasley, her eyes flashing. "Imagine a
wizard buying a rusty old car and telling his wife all he wanted to do
with it was take it apart to see how it worked, while really he was
enchanting it to make it fly."

Mr. Weasley blinked.

"Well, dear, I think you
s a loophole in the law, you
t intending to fly the car, the fact that the car could fly
wouldn



 shouted Mrs. Weasley. 
t
intending to fly!"

"Harry?" said Mr. Weasley blankly. "Harry who?"

He looked around, saw Harry, and jumped.

"Good lord, is it Harry Potter? Very pleased to meet you, Ron



s house and back last night."

shouted Mrs. Weasley. "What have you got to say about that, eh?"

"Did you really?" said Mr. Weasley eagerly. "Did it go all right? I - I
mean," he faltered as sparks flew from Mrs. Weasley
that -
that was very wrong, boys - very wrong indeed ......


s leave them to it," Ron muttered to Harry as Mrs. Weasley
swelled like a bullfrog. "Come on, I


They slipped out of the kitchen and down a narrow passageway to an
uneven staircase, which wound its way, zigzagging up

through the house. On the third landing, a door stood ajar. Harry just
caught sight of a pair of bright brown eyes staring at him before it
closed with a snap.


 said Ron. 
t know how weird it is for her to be this
shy. She never shuts up normally -"

They climbed two more flights until they reached a door with peeling
paint and a small plaque on it, saying RONALD
s
room seemed to be a violent shade of orange: the bedspread, the
walls, even the ceiling. Then Harry realized that Ron had covered
nearly every inch of the shabby wallpaper with posters of the same
seven witches and wizards, all wearing bright orange robes, carrying
broomsticks, and waving energetically.

"Your Quidditch team?" said Harry.

"The Chudley Cannons," said Ron, pointing at the orange bedspread,
which was emblazoned with two giant black C
Ninth in the league.
s school spellbooks were stacked untidily in a corner, next to a
pile of comics that all seemed to feature The Adventures of Martin
Miggs, the Mad Muggle. Ron

hedge. Then he turned to look at Ron, who was watching him almost
nervously, as though waiting for his opinion.

"It
 said Ron quickly. 
m right underneath the ghoul in the attic;
he
This is the best house I've ever
been in.
s ears went pink. .

C H4 A P T E R		V O U R

AT F L 0 V RR 11 $ H
AND BLOTTS

ife at the Burrow was as different as possible from life on Privet
Drive. The Dursleys liked everything neat and ordered; the Weasleys
Tuck your shirt in, scruffy!
s bedroom were considered
perfectly normal. What Harry found most unusual about life at Ron
t the talking mirror or the clanking ghoul: It was the
fact that everybody there seemed to like him.

Mrs. Weasley fussed over the state of his socks and tried to force him
to eat fourth helpings at every meal. Mr. Weasley liked Harry to sit
next to him at the dinner table so that he could bombard him with
questions about life with Muggles, asking him to explain how things
like plugs and the postal service worked.

42



"Fascinating." he would say as Harry talked him through using a
telephone. "Ingenious, really, how many ways Muggles have found of
getting along without magic."

Harry heard from Hogwarts one sunny morning about a week after he
had arrived at the Burrow. He and Ron went down to breakfast to find
Mr. and Mrs. Weasley and Ginny already sitting at the kitchen table.
The moment she saw Harry, Ginny accidentally knocked her porridge
bowl to the floor with a loud clatter. Ginny seemed very prone to
knocking things over whenever Harry entered a room. She dived under
the table to retrieve the bowl and emerged with her face glowing like
the setting sun. Pretending he hadn
Letters from school,
Dumbledore already knows you're here, Harry - doesn't miss a trick,
that man. You two've got them, too,
s told him to catch the Hogwarts Express as usual from King
d need for the coming year.

SECOND-YEAR STUDENTS WILL REQUIRE:

The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 2

by Miranda Goshawk

Break with a Banshee by Gilderoy Lockhart
Gadding with Ghouls by Gilderoy Lockhart
Holidays with Hags by Gilderoy Lockhart

4 ",3

Travels with Trolls by Gilderoy Lockhart
Voyages with Vampires by Gilderoy Lockhart
Wanderings with Werewolves by Gilderoy Lockhart
Year with the Yeti by Gilderoy Lockhart

Fred, who had finished his own list, peered over at Harry
You've been told to get all Lockhart's books, too!
The new
Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher must be a fan - bet it's a
witch.
s eye and quickly busied himself
with the marmalade.

"That lot won
 said George, with a quick look at his
parents. 
s books are really expensive ......

"Well, we
 said Mrs. Weasley, but she looked worried. 
ll be able to pick up a lot of Ginny



 Harry asked Ginny.

She nodded, blushing to the roots of her flaming hair, and put her
elbow in the butter dish. Fortunately no one saw this except Harry,
because just then Ron's elder brother Percy walked in. He was
already dressed, his Hogwarts prefect badge pinned to his sweater
vest.


 said Percy briskly. 


He sat down in the only remaining chair but leapt up again almost
immediately, pulling from underneath him a moulting, gray feather
duster - at least, that was what Harry thought it was, until he saw that
it was breathing.

* 44


 said Ron, taking the limp owl from Percy and extracting a
letter from under its wing. 
s got Hermione


He carried Errol to a perch just inside the back door and tried to
stand him on it, but Errol flopped straight off again so Ron lay him on
the draining board instead, muttering, 
 Then he ripped
open Hermione's letter and read it out loud:


re there,

	"`I hope everything went all right and that Harry is okay and that
you didn
ve been really worried and if Harry is all
right, will you please let me know at once, but perhaps it would be bet
ter if you used a different owl because I think another delivery might
finish your one off.

"
m very busy with schoolwork, of course
 said Ron
in horror. 
re on vacation! - 
re going to London next
Wednesday to buy my new books. Why don
`Let me know what's happening as soon as you can. Love from Hermione.



"Well, that fits in nicely, we can go and get all your things then, too,"
said Mrs. Weasley, starting to clear the table. "What


Harry, Ron, Fred, and George were planning to go up the hill to a
small paddock the Weasleys owned. It was surrounded by trees that
blocked it from view of the village below, meaning that they could
practice Quidditch there, as long as they didn't fly too high.

* 4$

They couldn't use real Quidditch balls, which would have been hard to
explain if they had escaped and flown away over the village; instead
they threw apples for one another to catch. They took turns riding
Harry's Nimbus Two Thousand, which was easily the best broom;
Ron's old Shooting Star was often outstripped by passing butterflies.

Five minutes later they were marching up the hill, broomsticks over
their shoulders. They had asked Percy if he wanted to join them, but
he had said he was busy. Harry had only seen Percy at mealtimes so
far; he stayed shut in his room the rest of the time.


 said Fred, frowning. 
s not
himself. His exam results came the day before you did; twelve
O.WL.s and he hardly gloated at all."

"Ordinary Wizarding Levels," George explained, seeing Harry
Bill got twelve, too. If we're not careful, we'll have
another Head Boy in the family. I don't think I could stand the shame.
s bank, Gringotts.

"Dunno how Mum and Dad are going to afford all our school stuff this
year," said George after a while. "Five sets of Lockhart books! And
Ginny needs robes and a wand and everything ......

Harry said nothing. He felt a bit awkward. Stored in an underground
vault at Gringotts in London was a small fortune that his parents had
left him. Of course, it was only in the wizarding world that he had
money; you couldn
t think their horror of anything connected with
magic would stretch to a large pile of gold.

Mrs. Weasley woke them all early the following Wednesday. After a
quick half a dozen bacon sandwiches each, they pulled on their coats
and Mrs. Weasley took a flowerpot off the kitchen mantelpiece and
peered inside.

"We
 she sighed. 
ll have to buy some
more today... Ah well, guests first! After you, Harry dear!"

And she offered him the flowerpot.

Harry stared at them all watching him.

"W-what am I supposed to do?" he stammered.

"He
 said Ron suddenly. 



 said Mr. Weasley. 






 said Mr. Weasley eagerly. 



 said Mrs. Weasley. 
s a lot quicker,
dear, but goodness me, if you



ll be all right, Mum," said Fred. "Harry, watch us first."

He took a pinch of glittering powder out of the flowerpot, stepped up
to the fire, and threw the powder into the flames.

With a roar, the fire turned emerald green and rose higher than Fred,
who stepped right into it, shouted, "Diagon Alley!" and vanished.

* 41

"You must speak clearly, dear," Mrs. Weasley told Harry as George
dipped his hand into the flowerpot. "And be sure to get out at the right
grate ......

"The right what?" said Harry nervously as the fire roared and whipped
George out of sight, too.

"Well, there are an awful lot of wizard fires to choose from, you know,
but as long as you



ll be fine, Molly, don
 said Mr. Weasley, helping himself to
Floo powder, too.





t mind," Harry reassured her. "Dudley would think it
was a brilliant joke if I got lost up a chimney, don



 said Mrs. Weasley. 
re going

"And keep your elbows tucked in," Ron advised.

"And your eyes shut," said Mrs. Weasley. "The soot -"

"Don
 said Ron. 



t panic and get out too early; wait until you see Fred and
George."

Trying hard to bear all this in mind, Harry took a pinch of Floo powder
and walked to the edge of the fire. He took a deep breath, scattered
the powder into the flames, and stepped forward; the fire felt like a
warm breeze; he opened his mouth and immediately swallowed a lot
of hot ash.

"D-Dia-gon Alley," he coughed.

48

It felt as though he was being sucked down a giant drain. He seemed
to be spinning very fast - the roaring in his ears was deafening -he
tried to keep his eyes open but the whirl of green flames made him
feel sick - something hard knocked his elbow and he tucked it in
tightly, still spinning and spinning - now it felt as though cold hands
were slapping his face - squinting through his glasses he saw a blurred
stream of fireplaces and snatched glimpses of the rooms beyond - his
bacon sandwiches were churning inside him - he closed his eyes again
wishing it would stop, and then

He fell, face forward, onto cold stone and felt the bridge of his glasses
snap.

Dizzy and bruised, covered in soot, he got gingerly to his feet, holding
his broken glasses up to his eyes. He was -,cite alone, but where he
was, he had no idea. All he could tell was that he was standing in the
stone fireplace of what looked like a large, dimly lit wizard
d got halfway toward it, two people appeared on
the other side of the glass - and one of them was the

49

very last person Harry wanted to meet when he was lost, covered in
soot, and wearing broken glasses: Draco Malfoy.

Harry looked quickly around and spotted a large black cabinet to his
left; he shot inside it and pulled the doors closed, leaving a small crack
to peer through. Seconds later, a bell clanged, and Malfoy stepped into
the shop.

The man who followed could only be Draco
Touch nothing, Draco.
I thought you were
going to buy me a present.
I said I would buy you a racing broom,
What's the good of that if I'm not on the House team?
Harry Potter got a Nimbus Two
Thousand last year. Special permission from Dumbledore so he could
play for Gryffindor. He's not even that good, it's just because he's
famous ... famous for having a stupid scar on his forehead . . . .
. . . everyone thinks he's so smart, wonderful Potter with his scar and
his broomstick -
You have told me this at least a dozen times already,
And I would remind you that it
is not - prudent - to appear less than fond of Harry Potter, not when
most of our kind regard him as the hero who made the Dark Lord
disappear - ah, Mr. Borgin.
Mr. Malfoy, what a pleasure to see you again,
Delighted - and young Master Malfoy, too -
charmed. How may I be of assistance? I must show you, just in today,
and very reasonably priced -
I'm not buying today, Mr. Borgin, but selling,
Selling?
s face.

"You have heard, of course, that the Ministry is conducting more
raids," said Mr. Malfoy, taking a roll of parchment from his inside
pocket and unraveling it for Mr. Borgin to read. "I have a few - ah -
items at home that might embarrass me, if the Ministry were to call
......

Mr. Borgin fixed a pair of pince-nez to his nose and looked down the
list.

"The Ministry wouldn


Mr. Malfoy's lip curled.


- and as you see, certain of these poisons might make it appear -
I understand, sir, of course,
Let me see. . .
Can I have that?
Ah, the Hand of Glory!
s
list and scurrying over to Draco. "Insert a candle and it gives light only
to the holder! Best friend of thieves and plunderers! Your son has fine
taste, sir."

"I hope my son will amount to more than a thief or a plunderer,
Borgin," said Mr. Malfoy coldly, and Mr. Borgin said quickly, "No
offense, sir, no offense meant -"

"Though if his grades don
 said Mr. Malfoy, more coldly still,




s not my fault," retorted Draco. "The teachers all have favorites,
that Hermione Granger -"

"I would have thought you
 snapped Mr. Malfoy.


 said Harry under his breath, pleased to see Draco looking both
abashed and angry.


s the same all over," said Mr. Borgin, in his oily voice. "Wizard
blood is counting for less everywhere -"

"Not with me," said Mr. Malfoy, his long nostrils flaring.

"No, sir, nor with me, sir," said Mr. Borgin, with a deep bow.

"In that case, perhaps we can return to my list," said Mr. Malfoy
shortly. "I am in something of a hurry, Borgin, I have important
business elsewhere today -"

They started to haggle. Harry watched nervously as Draco drew
nearer and nearer to his hiding place, examining the objects for sale.
Draco paused to examine a long coil of hangman
Done,
Come, Draco -
Good day to you, Mr. Borgin. I'll expect you at the manor tomorrow
to pick up the goods.
Good day yourself, Mister Malfoy, and if the stories are true, you
haven't sold me half of what's hidden in your manor ......

Muttering darkly, Mr. Borgin disappeared into a back room. Harry
waited for a minute in case he came back, then, quietly as he could,
slipped out of the cabinet, past the glass cases, and out of the shop
door.

Clutching his broken glasses to his face, Harry stared around. He had
emerged into a dingy alleyway that seemed to be made up entirely of
shops devoted to the Dark Arts. The one he'd just left, Borgin and
Burkes, looked like the largest, but opposite was a nasty window
display of shrunken heads and, two doors down, a large cage was
alive with gigantic black spiders. Two shabby-looking wizards were
watching him from the shadow of a doorway, muttering to each other.
Feeling jumpy, Harry set off, trying to hold his glasses on straight and
hoping against hope he'd be able to find a way out of here.

An old wooden street sign hanging over a shop selling poisonous
candles told him he was in Knockturn Alley. This didn't help, as Harry
had never heard of such a place. He supposed he hadn't spoken
clearly enough through his mouthful of ashes



back in the Weasleys' fire. Trying to stay calm, he wondered what to
do.


 said a voice in his ear, making him jump.

An aged witch stood in front of him, holding a tray of what looked
horribly like whole human fingernails. She leered at him, showing
mossy teeth. Harry backed away.


m fine, thanks," he said. "I



yeh think yer doin


Harry's heart leapt. So did the witch; a load of fingernails cascaded
down over her feet and she cursed as the massive form of Hagrid, the
Hogwarts gamekeeper, came striding toward them, beetle-black eyes
flashing over his great bristling beard.


 Harry croaked in relief. 


Hagrid seized Harry by the scruff of the neck and pulled him away
from the witch, knocking the tray right out of her hands. Her shrieks
followed them all the way along the twisting alleyway out into bright
sunlight. Harry saw a familiar, snow-white marble building in the
distance - Gringotts Bank. Hagrid had steered him right into Diagon
Alley.


 said Hagrid gruffly, brushing soot off Harry so
forcefully he nearly knocked him into a barrel of dragon dung outside
an apothecary. 
 around Knockturn Alley, I dunno dodgy place,
Harry - don



 said Harry, ducking as Hagrid made to brush him off
again. 


* 54


 fer a Flesh-Eatin
 growled Hagrid.

re ruinin



m staying with the Weasleys but we got separated," Harry explained.
"I


They set off together down the street.


 said Hagrid as Harry
jogged alongside him (he had to take three steps to every stride of
Hagrid's enormous boots). Harry explained all about Dobby and the
Dursleys.


 growled Hagrid. 
d





Harry looked up and saw Hermione Granger standing at the top of the
white flight of steps to Gringotts. She ran down to meet them, her
bushy brown hair flying behind her.


s wonderful to
see you two again - Are you coming into Gringotts, Harry?"

"As soon as I
 said Harry.


t have long ter wait," Hagrid said with a grin.

Harry and Hermione looked around: Sprinting up the crowded street
were Ron, Fred, George, Percy, and Mr. Weasley.

"Harry," Mr. Weasley panted. "We hoped you
Molly's

frantic - she's coming now -
Where did you come out?
Knockturn Alley,
Excellent.
We've never been allowed in,
I should ruddy well think not,
Oh, Harry - oh, my dear - you could have been any
where -
t managed to
beat away. Mr. Weasley took Harry
Well, gotta be off,
Knockturn Alley! If you hadn't found
him, Hagrid!
See yer at Hogwarts!
Guess who I saw in Borgin and Burkes?
Malfoy and his fa
ther.
Did Lucius Malfoy buy anything?
No, he was selling ='

s worried," said Mr. Weasley with grim satisfaction. "Oh,
I
You be careful, Arthur,
That family's trou
ble. Don't go biting off more than you can chew -
So you don't think I'm a match for Lucius Malfoy?
s parents, who were standing nervously at the
counter that ran all along the great marble hall, waiting for
Hermione to introduce them.

,5 s

"But you
 said Mr. Weasley delightedly. 
s that you
re changing Muggle money. Molly,
look!" He pointed excitedly at the tenpound notes in Mr. Granger
Meet you back here,
s underground tunnels.
Harry enjoyed the breakneck journey down to the Weasleys
We'll all meet at Flourish and Blotts in an hour to buy your schoolbooks,
And not one step down
Knockturn Alley!
 retreating backs.

Harry, Ron, and Hermione strolled off along the winding, cobbled street.
The bag of gold, silver, and bronze jangling cheerfully

*57*

in Harry
s Fabulous
Wet-Start, No-Heat Fireworks, and in a tiny junk shop full of bro
ken wands, lopsided brass scales, and old cloaks covered in potion
stains they found Percy, deeply immersed in a small and deeply
boring book called Prefects Who Gained Power.
`A study of Hogwarts prefects and their later careers, " Ron read
aloud off the back cover. "That sounds fascinating . . . ."

"Go away," Percy snapped.
"
s very ambitious, Percy, he
 Ron told Harry
and Hermione in an undertone as they left Percy to it.
An hour later, they headed for Flourish and Blotts. They were by
no means the only ones making their way to the bookshop. As they
approached it, they saw to their surprise a large crowd jostling out
side the doors, trying to get in. The reason for this was proclaimed

by a large banner stretched across the upper windows:

GILDEROY LOCKHART
will be signing copies of his autobiography
MAGICAL ME
today 12:30 P.m. to 4:30 P.m.


 Hermione squealed. 
s
written almost the whole booklist!"

The crowd seemed to be made up mostly of witches around Mrs.
Weasley
Calmly, please, ladies .... Don't push, there ... mind the books, now . .
. . 
Oh, there you are, good,
We'll be able to see him in a minute ......

Gilderoy Lockhart came slowly into view, seated at a table surrounded
by large pictures of his own face, all winking and flashing dazzlingly
white teeth at the crowd. The real Lockhart was wearing robes of
forget-me-not blue that exactly matched his eyes; his pointed wizard's
hat was set at a jaunty angle on his wavy hair.

A short, irritable-looking man was dancing around taking photographs
with a large black camera that emitted puffs of purple smoke with
every blinding flash.


 he snarled at Ron, moving back to get a better
shot. 



 said Ron, rubbing his foot where the photographer had
stepped on it.

Gilderoy Lockhart heard him. He looked up. He saw Ron

*59*


and then he saw Harry. He stared. Then he leapt to his feet and positively
shouted, 
t be Harry Potter?"

The crowd parted, whispering excitedly; Lockhart dived forward, seized
Harry
s face burned as Lockhart shook his hand for the photographer, who
was clicking away madly, wafting thick smoke over the Weasleys.

"Nice big smile, Harry," said Lockhart, through his own gleaming teeth.
"Together, you and I are worth the front page."

When he finally let go of Harry
Ladies and gentlemen,
What an
extraordinary moment this is! The perfect moment for me to make a little
announcement I've been sitting on for some time!


 The crowd applauded again. 

Lockhart continued, giving Harry a little shake that made his glasses slip to
the end of his nose, 


The crowd cheered and clapped and Harry found himself being

60

presented with the entire works of Gilderoy Lockhart. Staggering
slightly under their weight, he managed to make his way out of the
limelight to the edge of the room, where Ginny was standing next to
her new cauldron.


 Harry mumbled to her, tipping the books into the
cauldron. 
ll buy my own -"

"Bet you loved that, didn
 said a voice Harry had no
trouble recognizing. He straightened up and found himself face-to-face
with Draco Malfoy, who was wearing his usual sneer.


 said Malfoy. 
t even go into a bookshop
without making the front page."

"Leave him alone, he didn
 said Ginny. It was the first
time she had spoken in front of Harry. She was glaring at Malfoy.


ve got yourself a girlfriend!" drawled Malfoy. Ginny went
scarlet as Ron and Hermione fought their way over, both clutching
stacks of Lockhart
Oh, it's you,
Bet you're surprised to see Harry
here, eh?
Not as surprised as I am to see you in a shop, Weasley,
I suppose your parents will go hungry for a month to pay for
all those.
Ron!
What are you doing? It's too crowded in here, let's go outside.
Well, well, well - Arthur Weasley.
s shoulder,
sneering in just the same way.

"Lucius," said Mr. Weasley, nodding coldly.

"Busy time at the Ministry, I hear," said Mr. Malfoy. "All those raids
... I hope they


He reached into Ginny's cauldron and extracted, from amid the glossy
Lockhart books, a very old, very battered copy of A Beginner's Guide
to Transfiguration.


 Mr. Malfoy said. 
s the use of being a
disgrace to the name of wizard if they don


Mr. Weasley flushed darker than either Ron or Ginny.


 he said.


 said Mr. Malfoy, his pale eyes straying to Mr. and Mrs.
Granger, who were watching apprehensively. 


There was a thud of metal as Ginny
Get him, Dad!
No, Arthur, no!
Gentlemen,
please - please!
Break it up, there, gents, break it up -
s old Transfiguration book. He thrust it at her, his eyes
glittering with malice.

"Here, girl - take your book - it
 Pulling
himself out of Hagrid's grip he beckoned to Draco and swept from the shop.


ve ignored him, Arthur," said Hagrid, almost lifting Mr. Weasley
off his feet as he straightened his robes. "Rotten ter the core, the whole family,
everyone knows that - no Malfoy
 ter - bad blood, that
s get outta here."

The assistant looked as though he wanted to stop them leaving, but he barely
came up to Hagrid
A fine example to set for your children . . . brawling in public . . . what
Gilderoy Lockhart must've thought -
He was pleased,
Didn't you hear him as we were leaving? He was
asking that bloke from the Daily Prophet if he'd be able to work the fight into
his report - said it was all publicity -
s face.

Harry took off his glasses and put them safely in his pocket before
helping himself to Floo powder. It definitely wasn
s liking.
He was looking forward to getting back to Hogwarts, but his month
at the Burrow had been the happiest of his life. It was difficult not to
feel jealous of Ron when he thought of the Dursleys and the sort of
welcome he could expect next time he turned up on Privet Drive.

On their last evening, Mrs. Weasley conjured up a sumptuous dinner
that included all of Harry
s trunk to the car.

Harry couldn
Not a word to Molly,
Muggles do know more than we
give them credit for, don't they?
I mean,
you'd never know it was this roomy from the outside, would you?
d see it again when they were back George had
forgotten his box of Filibuster fireworks. Five minutes after that, they
skidded to a halt in the yard so that Fred could run in for his
broomstick. They had almost reached the highway when Ginny
shrieked that she
Molly, dear -
No, Arthur -
No one would see - this little button here is an Invisibility Booster I
installed - that'd get us up in the air - then we fly above the clouds.
We'd be there in ten minutes and no one would be any the wiser -
I said no, Arthur, not in broad daylight -
s Cross at a quarter to eleven. Mr. Weasley
dashed across the road to get trolleys for their trunks and they all
hurried into the station.

Harry had caught the Hogwarts Express the previous year. The tricky
part was getting onto platform nine and three-quarters, which wasn
t hurt, but it had to
be done carefully so that none of the Muggles noticed you vanishing.

"Percy first," said Mrs. Weasley, looking nervously at the clock
overhead, which showed they had only five minutes to disappear
casually through the barrier.

Percy strode briskly forward and vanished. Mr. Weasley went next;
Fred and George followed.

"I
 Mrs. Weasley told
Harry and Ron, grabbing Ginny's hand and setting off. In the blink of
an eye they were gone.


s go together, we
 Ron said to Harry.

Harry made sure that Hedwig's cage was safely wedged on top of his
trunk and wheeled his trolley around to face the barrier. He felt

61

perfectly confident; this wasn't nearly as uncomfortable as using Floo
powder. Both of them bent low over the handles of their trolleys and
walked purposefully toward the barrier, gathering speed. A few feet
away from it, they broke into a run and

CRASH.

Both trolleys hit the barrier and bounced backward; Ron's trunk fell
off with a loud thump, Harry was knocked off his feet, and Hedwig's
cage bounced onto the shiny floor, and she rolled away, shrieking
indignantly; people all around them stared and a guard nearby yelled,

you think you



 Harry gasped, clutching his ribs as he
got up. Ron ran to pick up Hedwig, who was causing such a scene
that there was a lot of muttering about cruelty to animals from the
surrounding crowd.


t we get through?" Harry hissed to Ron.

"I dunno -"

Ron looked wildly around. A dozen curious people were still
watching them.

"We
 Ron whispered. 
t understand
why the gateway


Harry looked up at the giant clock with a sickening feeling in the pit
of his stomach. Ten seconds ... nine seconds ...

He wheeled his trolley forward cautiously until it was right against the
barrier and pushed with all his might. The metal remained solid.

Three seconds . . . two seconds ... one second ...


s gone," said Ron, sounding stunned. "The train
t get back through to us? Have you got any
Muggle money?"

68

And they marched off through the crowd of curious Muggles, out of
the station and back onto the side road where the old Ford Anglia was
parked.

Ron unlocked the cavernous trunk with a series of taps from his wand.
They heaved their luggage back in, put Hedwig on the back seat, and
got into the front.

"Check that no one
 said Ron, starting the ignition with
another tap of his wand. Harry stuck his head out of the window:
Traffic was rumbling along the main road ahead, but their street was
empty.


 he said.

Ron pressed a tiny silver button on the dashboard. The car around
them vanished - and so did they. Harry could feel the seat vibrating
beneath him, hear the engine, feel his hands on his knees and his
glasses on his nose, but for all he could see, he had become a pair of
eyeballs, floating a few feet above the ground in a dingy street full of
parked cars.


s go," said Ron
Uh-oh,
It's faulty -
Hold on!
Now what?
We need to see the train to know what direction to go in,
Dip back down again - quickly -
I can see it!
Right ahead - there!
Due north,
Okay, we'll just have to check on it every half hour or so - hold on

And they shot up through the clouds. A minute later, they burst out
into a blaze of sunlight.

It was a different world. The wheels of the car skimmed the sea of
fluffy cloud, the sky a bright, endless blue under the blinding white sun.


ve got to worry about now are airplanes," said Ron.

They looked at each other and started to laugh; for a long time, they
couldn
s and George
s T-shirt was sticking to the back
of his seat and his glasses kept sliding down to the end of his sweaty
nose. He had stopped noticing the fantastic cloud shapes now and
was thinking longingly of the train miles below, where you could buy
ice-cold pumpkin juice from a trolley pushed by a plump witch. Why
hadn
Can't be much further, can it?
Ready for another check on the train?
It's probably just tired,
It's never been this far before
......

12

And they both pretended not to notice the whining growing
louder and louder as the sky became steadily darker. Stars were
blossoming in the blackness. Harry pulled his sweater back on, try
ing to ignore the way the windshield wipers were now waving fee
bly, as though in protest.

 said Ron, more to the car than to Harry, 
 and he patted the dashboard nervously.
When they flew back beneath the clouds a little while later, they
had to squint through the darkness for a landmark they knew.

 Harry shouted, making Ron and Hedwig jump.


Silhouetted on the dark horizon, high on the cliff over the lake,
stood the many turrets and towers of Hogwarts castle.
But the car had begun to shudder and was losing speed.

 Ron said cajolingly, giving the steering wheel a lit
tle shake, 

The engine groaned. Narrow jets of steam were issuing from un
der the hood. Harry found himself gripping the edges of his seat
very hard as they flew toward the lake.
The car gave a nasty wobble. Glancing out of his window, Harry
saw the smooth, black, glassy surface of the water, a mile below.
Ron's knuckles were white on the steering wheel. The car wobbled
again.

 Ron muttered.
They were over the lake - the castle was right ahead - Ron
put his foot down.
There was a loud clunk, a splutter, and the engine died com
pletely.


 said Ron, into the silence.

The nose of the car dropped. They were falling, gathering speed,
heading straight for the solid castle wall.


 Ron yelled, swinging the steering wheel around; they
missed the dark stone wall by inches as the car turned in a great arc,
soaring over the dark greenhouses, then the vegetable patch, and then
out over the black lawns, losing altitude all the time.

Ron let go of the steering wheel completely and pulled his wand out of
his back pocket


 he yelled, whacking the dashboard and the
windshield, but they were still plummeting, the ground flying up toward
them


 Harry bellowed, lunging for the
steering wheel, but too late

CRUNCH.

With an earsplitting bang of metal on wood, they hit the thick tree
trunk and dropped to the ground with a heavy jolt. Steam was
billowing from under the crumpled hood; Hedwig was shrieking in
terror; a golfball-size lump was throbbing on Harry's head where he
had hit the windshield; and to his right, Ron let out a low, despairing
groan.


 Harry said urgently.


 said Ron, in a shaky voice. 


It had snapped, almost in two; the tip was dangling limply, held on by a
few splinters.

Harry opened his mouth to say he was sure they'd be able to mend it
up at the school, but he never even got started. At that very moment,
something hit his side of the car with the force of a

* Y4 *

charging bull, sending him lurching sideways into Ron, just as an
equally heavy blow hit the roof.


s happen -?"

Ron gasped, staring through the windshield, and Harry looked around
just in time to see a branch as thick as a python smash into it. The tree
they had hit was attacking them. Its trunk was bent almost double, and
its gnarled boughs were pummeling every inch of the car it could
reach.

"Aaargh!" said Ron as another twisted limb punched a large dent into
his door; the windshield was now trembling under a hail of blows from
knuckle-like twigs and a branch as thick as a battering ram was
pounding furiously on the roof, which seemed to be caving

"Run for it!" Ron shouted, throwing his full weight against his door, but
next second he had been knocked backward into Harry
We're done for!
Reverse!
That,
was close. Well done, car -
s
cage flew through the air and burst open; she rose out of it with an
angry screech and sped off toward the castle

Y5

without a backward look. Then, dented, scratched, and steaming,
the car rumbled off into the darkness, its rear lights blazing angrily.

"Come back!" Ron yelled after it, brandishing his broken wand.
"Dad


But the car disappeared from view with one last snort from its
exhaust.


 said Ron miserably, bending down to
pick up Scabbers. 
ve hit, we had to get
one that hits back."

He glanced over his shoulder at the ancient tree, which was still
flailing its branches threateningly.

"Come on," said Harry wearily, "we
t at all the triumphant arrival they had pictured. Stiff, cold,
and bruised, they seized the ends of their trunks and began dragging
them up the grassy slope, toward the great oak front doors.

"I think the feast
 said Ron, dropping his trunk at
the foot of the front steps and crossing quietly to look through a
brightly lit window. 
s the Sorting!"

Harry hurried over and, together, he and Ron peered in at the Great
Hall.

Innumerable candles were hovering in midair over four long,
crowded tables, making the golden plates and goblets sparkle.
Overhead, the bewitched ceiling, which always mirrored the sky
outside, sparkled with stars.

Through the forest of pointed black Hogwarts hats, Harry saw a long
line of scared-looking first years fiIing into the Hall. Ginny

* 76

was among them, easily visible because of her vivid Weasley ha-ir.
Meanwhile, Professor McGonagall, a bespectacled witch with her hair
in a tight bun, was placing the famous Hogwarts Sorting Hat on a
stool before the newcomers.

Every year, this aged old hat, patched, frayed, and dirty, sorted new
students into the four Hogwarts houses (Gryffindor, Hufflepuff,
Ravenclaw, and Slytherin). Harry well remembered putting it on,
exactly one year ago, and waiting, petrified, for its decision as it
muttered aloud in his ear. For a few horrible seconds he had feared
that the hat was going to put him in Slytherin, the house that had
turned out more Dark witches and wizards than any other -but he had
ended up in Gryffindor, along with Ron, Hermione, and the rest of the
Weasleys. Last term, Harry and Ron had helped Gryffindor win the
House Championship, beating Slytherin for the first time in seven
years.

A very small, mousy-haired boy had been called forward to place the
hat on his head. Harry
Hang on. . . 
There's an empty chair at the
staff table .... Where's Snape?
s least favorite teacher. Harry
also happened to be Snape
Maybe he's ill!
Maybe he's left,
because he missed out on the Defense
Against Dark Arts job again!
Or he might have been sacked!
I mean,
everyone hates him -
Or maybe,
he's waiting to
hear why you two didn't arrive on the school train.
Follow me,
In!
s office, shivering. The shadowy walls were lined
with shelves of large glass) ars, in which floated all manner of
revolting things Harry didn
So,
the train isn't good enough for the famous Harry
Potter and his faithful sidekick Weasley. Wanted to arrive with a bang,
did we, boys?
No, sir, it was the barrier at King's Cross, it -
Silence!
What have you done with the
car?
t the first time Snape had given Harry the
impression of being able to read minds. But a moment later, he un
derstood, as Snape unrolled today
You were seen,
Two Muggles in London, convinced they saw an old car
flying over the Post Office tower ... at noon in Norfolk, Mrs.
Hetty Bayliss, while hanging out her washing ... Mr. Angus Fleet,
of Peebles, reported to police ... Six or seven Muggles in all. I be
lieve your father works in the Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office?
Dear,
dear ... his own son. . . 
d just been walloped in the stomach by
one of the mad tree
t thought of that ....
"I noticed, in my search of the park, that considerable damage
seems to have been done to a very valuable Whomping Willow,"
Snape went on.
"That tree did more damage to us than we -" Ron blurted out.
"Silence!" snapped Snape again. "Most unfortunately, you are
not in my House and the decision to expel you does not rest with
me. I shall go and fetch the people who do have that happy power.
You will wait here."
Harry and Ron stared at each other, white-faced. Harry didn
s desk. If Snape had gone to fetch Professor
McGonagall, head of Gryffindor House, they were hardly any better
off. She might be fairer than Snape, but she was still extremely strict.

Ten minutes later, Snape returned, and sure enough it was Professor
McGonagall who accompanied him. Harry had seen Professor
McGonagall angry on several occasions, but either he had forgotten
just how thin her mouth could go, or he had never seen her this angry
before. She raised her wand the moment she entered; Harry and Ron
both flinched, but she merely pointed it at the empty fireplace, where
flames suddenly erupted.

"Sit," she said, and they both backed into chairs by the fire.

"Explain," she said, her glasses glinting ominously.

Ron launched into the story, starting with the barrier at the station
refusing to let them through.

"

-so we had no choice, Professor, we couldn



t you send us a letter by owl? I believe you have an owl?"
Professor McGonagall said coldly to Harry.

Harry gaped at her. Now she said it, that seemed the obvious thing to
have done.

"I - I didn



 said Professor McGonagall, 


There was a knock on the office door and Snape, now looking happier
than ever, opened it. There stood the headmaster, Professor
Dumbledore.

Harry's whole body went numb. Dumbledore was looking unusually
grave. He stared down his very crooked nose at them, and

*80*

Harry suddenly found himself wishing he and Ron were still being
beaten up by the Whomping Willow.

There was a long silence. Then Dumbledore said, 


It would have been better if he had shouted. Harry hated the
disappointment in his voice. For some reason, he was unable to look
Dumbledore in the eyes, and spoke instead to his knees. He told
Dumbledore everything except that Mr. Weasley owned the
bewitched car, making it sound as though he and Ron had happened to
find a flying car parked outside the station. He knew Dumbledore
would see through this at once, but Dumbledore asked no questions
about the car. When Harry had finished, he merely continued to peer
at them through his spectacles.


ll go and get our stuff," said Ron in a hopeless sort of voice.

"What are you talking about, Weasley?" barked Professor
McGonagall.

"Well, you
t you?" said Ron.

Harry looked quickly at Dumbledore.

"Not today, Mr. Weasley," said Dumbledore. "But I must impress upon
both of you the seriousness of what you have done. I will be writing to
both your families tonight. I must also warn you that if you do anything
like this again, I will have no choice but to expel you."

Snape looked as though Christmas had been canceled. He cleared his
throat and said, "Professor Dumbledore, these boys have flouted the
Decree for the Restriction of Underage Wizardry, caused serious
damage to an old and valuable tree - surely acts of this nature -"

* 8i

"It will be for Professor McGonagall to decide on these boys
 said Dumbledore calmly. 
 He turned to Professor
McGonagall. 
ve got to give
out a few notices. Come, Severus, there

Snape shot a look of pure venom at Harry and Ron as he allowed
himself to be swept out of his office, leaving them alone with Pro
fessor McGonagall, who was still eyeing them like a wrathful eagle.

d better get along to the hospital wing, Weasley, you


 said Ron, hastily wiping the cut over his eye with
his sleeve. 


 said Professor McGonagall.



 said Ron.

 Professor McGonagall said
sharply, but Harry cut in: 
t started, so - so Gryffindor shouldn
 he finished, watching her anxiously.
Professor McGonagall gave him a piercing look, but he was sure
she had almost smiled. Her mouth looked less thin, anyway.

 she said, and
Harry's heart lightened considerably. 

It was better than Harry had expected. As for Dumbledore's
writing to the Dursleys, that was nothing. Harry knew perfectly
well they'd just be disappointed that the Whomping Willow hadn't
squashed him flat.

82

Professor McGonagall raised her wand again and pointed it at Snape's
desk. A large plate of sandwiches, two silver goblets, and a jug of-iced
pumpkin juice appeared with a pop.


 she
said. 


When the door had closed behind her, Ron let out a long, low whistle.


d had it," he said, grabbing a sandwich.

"So did I," said Harry, taking one, too.

"Can you believe our luck, though?" said Ron thickly through a
mouthful of chicken and ham. "Fred and George must
 He swallowed
and took another huge bite. 
t we get through the barrier?"

Harry shrugged. "We

he said, taking a grateful swig of pumpkin juice. 
ve
gone up to the feast ......

"She didn
 said Ron sagely. 
t want
people to think it


When they had eaten as many sandwiches as they could (the plate
kept refilling itself) they rose and left the office, treading the familiar
path to Gryffindor Tower. The castle was quiet; it seemed that the
feast was over. They walked past muttering portraits and creaking
suits of armor, and climbed narrow flights of stone stairs, until at last
they reached the passage where the secret entrance to Gryffindor
Tower was hidden, behind an oil painting of a very fat woman in a
pink silk dress.


 she said as they approached.


 said Harry.

They didn't know the new year's password, not having met a
Gryffindor prefect yet, but help came almost immediately; they heard
hurrying feet behind them and turned to see Hermione dashing toward
them.


d been expelled for crashing a flying car

"Well, we haven
 Harry assured her.


re not telling me you did fly here?" said Hermione, sounding
almost as severe as Professor McGonagall.

"Skip the lecture," said Ron impatiently, "and tell us the new
password."

"It
' said Hermione impatiently, 
s not the point -
"

Her words were cut short, however, as the portrait of the fat lady
swung open and there was a sudden storm of clapping. It looked as
though the whole of Gryffindor House was still awake, packed into
the circular common room, standing on the lopsided tables and
squashy armchairs, waiting for them to arrive. Arms reached through
the portrait hole to pull Harry and Ron inside, leaving Hermione to
scramble in after then-t.

"Brilliant!" yelled Lee Jordan. "Inspired! What an entrance! Flying a
car right into the Whomping Willow, people



 said a fifth year Harry had never spoken to; someone
was patting him on the back as though he'd just won a marathon;
Fred and George pushed their way to the front of the crowd and said
together, 
t we


84

Ron was scarlet in the face, grinning embarrassedly, but Harry could
see one person who didn't look happy at all. Percy was visible over
the heads of some excited first years, and he seemed to be trying to
get near enough to start telling them off. Harry nudged Ron in the
ribs and nodded in Percy's direction. Ron got the point at once.


 he said, and the two of them started
pushing their way toward the door on the other side of the room,
which led to a spiral staircase and the dormitories.


Night," Harry called back to Hermione, who was wearing a scowl
just like Percy
I know I shouldn't've enjoyed that or anything, but ='

The dormitory door flew open and in came the other second year
Gryffindor boys, Seamus Finnigan, Dean Thomas, and Neville
Longbottom.


 beamed Seamus.


 said Dean.


 said Neville, awestruck.

Harry couldn't help it. He grinned, too.

* 85 *

H-H A P T E RR		s 1 x

GILDEROY LOCKHART

he next day, however, Harry barely grinned once. Things started to go
downhill from breakfast in the Great Hall. The four long house tables
were laden with tureens of porridge, plates of kippers, mountains of
toast, and dishes of eggs and bacon, beneath the enchanted ceiling
(today, a dull, cloudy gray). Harry and Ron sat down at the Gryffindor
table next to Hermione, who had her copy of Voyages with Vampires
propped open against a milk jug. There was a slight stiffness in the
way she said 
 which told Harry that she was still
disapproving of the way they had arrived. Neville Longbottom, on the
other hand, greeted them cheerfully. Neville was a round-faced and
accident-prone boy with the worst memory of anyone Harry had ever
met.


s due any minute - I think Gran


Harry had only just started his porridge when, sure enough, there was
a rushing sound overhead and a hundred or so owls

86



streamed in, circling the hall and dropping letters and packages into the
chattering crowd. A big, lumpy package bounced off Neville's head
and, a second later, something large and gray fell into Hermione's jug,
spraying them all with milk and feathers.


 said Ron, pulling the bedraggled owl out by the feet. Errol
slumped, unconscious, onto the table, his legs in the air and a damp red
envelope in his beak.


 Ron gasped.


s all right, he
 said Hermione, prodding Errol gently with
the tip of her finger.


s not that - it


Ron was pointing at the red envelope. It looked quite ordinary to
Harry, but Ron and Neville were both looking at it as though they
expected it to explode.


s the matter?" said Harry.

"She
s sent me a Howler," said Ron faintly.

"You
 said Neville in a timid whisper. 
ll be
worse if you don
 -
he gulped - 


Harry looked from their petrified faces to the red envelope.


s a Howler?" he said.

But Ron
Open it,
It'll all be over in a few minutes -
s
beak, and slit it open. Neville stuffed his fingers in his ears. A split
second later, Harry knew why. He thought for a moment it had
exploded; a roar of sound fiIled the huge hall, shaking dust from the
ceiling.

8 _

"-	E CAR, I WO ULDN
D EXPELLED YOU, YOU WAIT TILL I GET
HOLD OF YOU, I DON


Mrs. Weasleys yells, a hundred times louder than usual, made the
plates and spoons rattle on the table, and echoed deafeningly off the
stone walls. People throughout the hall were swiveling around to see
who had received the Howler, and Ron sank so low in his chair that
only his crimson forehead could be seen.


T BRING
YOU UP TO BEHAVE LIKE THIS, YOU AND HARRY COULD
BOTH HAVE DIED -"

Harry had been wondering when his name was going to crop up. He
tried very hard to look as though he couldn
-ABSOLUTELYDISGUSTED - YOUR FATHER'S FACING AN
INQUIRY AT WORK, IT'S ENTIRELY YOUR FAULT AND IF
YOU PUT ANOTHER TOE OUT OF LINE WE'LL BRING YOU
STRAIGHT BACK HOME.
s
hand, burst into flames and curled into ashes. Harry and Ron sat
stunned, as though a tidal wave had just passed over them. A few
people laughed and, gradually, a babble of talk broke out again.

Hermione closed Voyages with Vampires and looked down at the top
of Ron
Well, I don't know what you expected, Ron, but you -
Don't tell me I deserved it,
s arms were full of bandages, and with another twinge of guilt,
Harry spotted the Whomping Willow in the distance, several of its
branches now in slings.

Professor Sprout was a squat little witch who wore a patched hat over
her flyaway hair; there was usually a large amount of earth on her
clothes and her fingernails would have made Aunt Petunia faint.
Gilderoy Lockhart, however, was immaculate in sweeping robes of
turquoise, his golden hair shining under a perfectly positioned turquoise
hat with gold trimming.

"Oh, hello there!" he called, beaming around at the assembled

89

students. "Just been showing Professor Sprout the right way to doctor
a Whomping Willow! But I don
m better at Herbology than she is! I just happen to have met
several of these exotic plants on my travels . . ."

"Greenhouse three today, chaps!" said Professor Sprout, who was
looking distinctly disgruntled, not at all her usual cheerful self.

There was a murmur of interest. They had only ever worked in
greenhouse one before - greenhouse three housed far more interesting
and dangerous plants. Professor Sprout took a large key from her belt
and unlocked the door. Harry caught a whiff of damp earth and
fertilizer mingling with the heavy perfume of some giant, umbrella-
sized flowers dangling from the ceiling. He was about to follow Ron
and Hermione inside when Lockhart
Harry! I've been wanting a word - you don't mind if he's a couple of
minutes late, do you, Professor Sprout?
s scowl, she did mind, but Lockhart said,
"That
 and closed the greenhouse door in her face.


 said Lockhart, his large white teeth gleaming in the sunlight
as he shook his head. 


Completely nonplussed, Harry said nothing.




Harry had no idea what he was talking about. He was about to say so
when Lockhart went on, 
t know when I
d
done it. Stood out a mile. Harry, Harry, Harry."

It was remarkable how he could show every one of those brilliant
teeth even when he wasn
Gave you a taste for publicity, didn't I?
Gave
you the bug. You got onto the front page of the paper with me and
you couldn't wait to do it again.
Oh, no, Professor, see -
Harry, Harry, Harry,
I understand. Natural to want a bit more once you've
had that first taste - and I blame myself for giving you that, be
cause it was bound to go to your head - but see here, young man,
you can't start flying cars to try and get yourself noticed. Just calm
down, all right? Plenty of time for all that when you're older. Yes,
yes, I know what you're thinking! 'It's all right for him, he's an in
ternationally famous wizard already!' But when I was twelve, I was
just as much of a nobody as you are now. In fact, Id say I was even
more of a nobody! I mean, a few people have heard of you, haven't
they? All that business with He-\
 He
glanced at the lightning scar on Harry's forehead. 
s not quite as good as winning Witch Weekly
s a
start, Harry, it

He gave Harry a hearty wink and strode off. Harry stood
stunned for a few seconds, then, remembering he was supposed to
be in the greenhouse, he opened the door and slid inside.
Professor Sprout was standing behind a trestle bench in the cen
ter of the greenhouse. About twenty pairs of different-colored ear
muffs were lying on the bench. When Harry had taken his place
between Ron and Hermione, she said, 
ll be repotting Man
drakes today. Now, who can tell me the properties of the Man
drake?"
To nobody
s hand was first into the air.

s1

"Mandrake, or Mandragora, is a powerful restorative," said Hermione,
sounding as usual as though she had swallowed the textbook. "It is
used to return people who have been transfigured or cursed to their
original state."

"Excellent. Ten points to Gryffindor," said Professor Sprout. "The
Mandrake forms an essential part of most antidotes. It is also,
however, dangerous. Who can tell me why?"

Hermione
s glasses as it shot up again.

"The cry of the Mandrake is fatal to anyone who hears it," she said
promptly.

"Precisely. Take another ten points," said Professor Sprout. "Now, the
Mandrakes we have here are still very young."

She pointed to a row of deep trays as she spoke, and everyone
shuffled forward for a better look. A hundred or so tufty little plants,
purplish green in color, were growing there in rows. They looked quite
unremarkable to Harry, who didn
cry
Everyone take a pair of earmuffs,
t
pink and fluffy.

"When I tell you to put them on, make sure your ears are completely
covered," said Professor Sprout. "When it is safe to remove them, I
will give you the thumbs-up. Right - earmuffs on."

Harry snapped the earmuffs over his ears. They shut out sound
completely. Professor Sprout put the pink, fluffy pair over her own
ears, rolled up the sleeves of her robes, grasped one of the tufty plants
firmly, and pulled hard.

*92*

Harry let out a gasp of surprise that no one could hear.

Instead of roots, a small, muddy, and extremely ugly baby popped out
of the earth. The leaves were growing right out of his head. He had
pale green, mottled skin, and was clearly bawling at the top of his
lungs.

Professor Sprout took a large plant pot from under the table and
plunged the Mandrake into it, burying him in dark, damp compost until
only the tufted leaves were visible. Professor Sprout dusted off her
hands, gave them all the thumbs-up, and removed her own earmuffs.

"As our Mandrakes are only seedlings, their cries won
 she
said calmly as though she'd just done nothing more exciting than water
a begonia. 
m sure none of you want to miss your first day back, make sure your
earmuffs are securely in place while you work. I will attract your
attention when it is time to pack up.

"Four to a tray - there is a large supply of pots here - compost in the
sacks over there - and be careful of the Venemous Tentacula, it


She gave a sharp slap to a spiky, dark red plant as she spoke, making
it draw in the long feelers that had been inching sneakily over her
shoulder.

Harry, Ron, and Hermione were joined at their tray by a curly-haired
Hufflepuff boy Harry knew by sight but had never spoken to.


 he said brightly, shaking Harry by the hand.

re
Hermione Granger - always top in everything"

* 9%

(Hermione beamed as she had her hand shaken too) "- and Ron
Weasley. Wasn


Ron didn't smile. The Howler was obviously still on his mind.


s something, isn
 said Justin happily as they
began fiIling their plant pots with dragon dung compost. 
My name was down for Eton, you know. I can't tell you how glad I
am I came here instead. Of course, Mother was slightly disappointed,
but since I made her read Lockhart's books I think she's begun to see
how useful it'll be to have a fully trained wizard in the family . . . .
t have much chance to talk. Their earmuffs were
back on and they needed to concentrate on the Mandrakes. Professor
Sprout had made it look extremely easy, but it wasn
t like coming out of the earth, but didn
s classes were always hard work, but today
was especially difficult. Everything Harry had learned last year
seemed to have leaked out of his head during the summer. He was
supposed to be turning a beetle into a button, but all he managed

* 94

to do was give his beetle a lot of exercise as it scuttled over the
desktop avoiding his wand.

Ron was having far worse problems. He had patched up his wand
with some borrowed Spellotape, but it seemed to be damaged beyond
repair. It kept crackling and sparking at odd moments, and every time
Ron tried to transfigure his beetle it engulfed him in thick gray smoke
that smelled of rotten eggs. Unable to see what he was doing, Ron
accidentally squashed his beetle with his elbow and had to ask for a
new one. Professor McGonagall wasn
Stupid - useless - thing -
Write home for another one,
Oh, yeah, and get another Howler back,
 `It's your own fault your wand got snapped -
'
s mood was not improved by
Hermione
What've we got this afternoon?
Defense Against the Dark Arts,
Why, 
have you outlined all
Lockhart's lessons in little hearts?
d
seen trying on the Sorting Hat last night staring at Harry as though
transfixed. He was clutching what looked like an ordinary Muggle
camera, and the moment Harry looked at him, he went bright red.

"All right, Harry? I
m Colin Creevey," he said breathlessly, taking
a tentative step forward. "I
you think - would it
be all right if - can I have a picture?" he said, raising the camera
hopefully.

"A picture?" Harry repeated blankly.

"So I can prove I
 said Colin Creevey eagerly, edging
further forward. 
s told me. About
how you survived when You-Know-Who tried to kill you and how he
disappeared and everything and how you
 (his eyes raked Harry's hairline) 
ll
move." Colin drew a great shuddering breath of excitement and said,
"It
t it? I never knew all the odd stuff I could do
was magic till I got the letter from Hogwarts. My dad
t believe it either. So I
d be really good if I had one of you" - he looked
imploringly at Harry - "maybe your friend could take it and I could
stand next to you? And then, could you sign it?"

96

"Signed photos? You


Loud and scathing, Draco Malfoy's voice echoed around the
courtyard. He had stopped right behind Colin, flanked, as he always
was at Hogwarts, by his large and thuggish cronies, Crabbe and
Goyle.


 Malfoy roared to the crowd. 
s
giving out signed photos!"

"No, I
 said Harry angrily, his fists clenching. 



re just jealous," piped up Colin, whose entire body was about
as thick as Crabbe
said Malfoy, who didn't need to shout anymore: half the
courtyard was listening in. 
t want a foul scar right
across my head, thanks. I don


Crabbe and Goyle were sniggering stupidly.


 said Ron angrily. Crabbe stopped laughing and
started rubbing his knuckles in a menacing way.


 sneered Malfoy. 
t want to start any
trouble or your Mommy
 He put on a shrill, piercing voice. 
 - "

A knot of Slytherin fifth-years nearby laughed loudly at this.

"Weasley would like a signed photo, Potter," smirked Malfoy. "It
s whole house -"

Ron whipped out his Spellotaped wand, but Hermione shut Voyages
with Vampires with a snap and whispered, "Look out!"

"What
s all this?" Gilderoy Lockhart was striding

* 97

toward them, his turquoise robes swirling behind him. "Who

Harry started to speak but he was cut short as Lockhart flung an
arm around his shoulders and thundered jovially, 
t have
asked! We meet again, Harry!"
Pinned to Lockhart
Come on then, Mr. Creevey,
A double portrait, can't do better than that, and we'll both sign it
for you.
Off you go, move along there,
A word to the wise, Harry,
I covered up for you
back there with young Creevey - if he was photographing me,
too, your schoolmates won't think you're setting yourself up so
much . . . .
s stammers, Lockhart swept him down a corridor
lined with staring students and up a staircase.
"Let me just say that handing out signed pictures at this stage of
your career isn
ll need to
keep a stack handy wherever you go, but" - he gave a little chor
tle - "I don
re quite there yet."
They had reached Lockhart
s books in front of him, so that he could avoid looking at the
real thing.

The rest of the class came clattering in, and Ron and Hermione sat
down on either side of Harry.

"You could
 said Ron. 
d better hope
Creevey doesn
ll be starting a Harry Potter fan
club."

"Shut up," snapped Harry. The last thing he needed was for Lockhart
to hear the phrase "Harry Potter fan club."

When the whole class was seated, Lockhart cleared his throat loudly
and silence fell. He reached forward, picked up Neville Longbottom
Me,
Gilderoy Lockhart,
Order of Merlin, Third Class, Honorary Member of the Dark Force
Defense League, and five-time winner of Witch Weekly's Most-
Charming-Smile Award - but I don't talk about that. I didn't get rid of
the Bandon Banshee by smiling at her!
I see you've all bought a complete set of my books -well done. I
thought we'd start today with a little quiz. Nothing to worry about

just to check how well you've read them, how much you've taken in -
You have thirty minutes - start - now!
s favorite color?

2.	What is Gilderoy Lockhart
s greatest
achievement to date?

On and on it went, over three sides of paper, right down to:

54.	When is Gilderoy Lockhart
Tut, tut - hardly any of you remembered that my favorite color is
lilac. I say so in Year with the Yeti. And a few of you need to read
Wanderings with Werewolves more carefully - I clearly state in chapter
twelve that my ideal birthday gift would be harmony between all
magic and non-magic peoples - though I wouldn't say no to a large
bottle of Ogdeds Old Firewhisky!
. . . but Miss Hermione Granger knew my secret ambition is to rid the
world of evil and market my own range of hair-care potions - good
girl! In fact
full marks! Where is Miss
Hermione Granger?
Excellent!
Quite excellent! Take ten points for
Gryffindor! And so - to business -
Now - be warned! It is my job to arm you against the foulest
creatures known to wizardkind! You may find yourselves facing your
worst fears in this room. Know only that no harm can befall you whilst
I am here. All I ask is that you remain calm.
I must ask you not to scream,
It might
provoke them.
Yes,
Freshly caught Cornish pixies. 
t control himself. He let out a snort of
laughter that even Lockhart couldn
Yes?
Well, they're not - they're not very - dangerous, are they?
Don't be so sure!
Devilish tricky little blighters they can be!
Right, then,
Let's see what you make of
them!
Come on now - round them up, round them up, they're only pixies,
Peskipiksi Pesternomi!
Well, I'll
ask you three to just nip the rest of them back into their cage.
Can you believe him?
He just wants to give us some hands-on experience,
Hands on? 
Hermione, he didn't have a clue what he
was doing -
Rubbish,
You've read his books - look at all those
amazing things he's done -
He says he's done,
s
schedule. Nothing seemed to give Colin a bigger thrill than to say, "All
right, Harry?" six or seven times a day and hear, "Hello, Colin," back,
however exasperated Harry sounded when he said it.

Hedwig was still angry with Harry about the disasterous car journey
and Ron
s hand in Charms and hitting tiny old
Professor Flitwick squarely between the eyes, creating a large,
throbbing green boil where it had struck. So with one thing and
another, Harry was quite glad to reach the weekend. He, Ron, and
Hermione were planning to visit Hagrid on Saturday morning. Harry,
however, was shaken awake several hours earlier

*104*



than he would have liked by Oliver Wood, Captain of the Gryffindor
Quidditch team.

"Whassamatter?" said Harry groggily.

"Quidditch practice!" said Wood. "Come on!"

Harry squinted at the window. There was a thin mist hanging across
the pink-and-gold sky. Now that he was awake, he couldn
Oliver,
It's the crack of dawn.
Exactly,
It's part
of our new training program. Come on, grab your broom, and let's go,
None of the other teams have started training yet;
we're going to be first off the mark this year -
Good man,
Meet you on the field in fifteen minutes.

When he'd found his scarlet team robes and pulled on his cloak for
warmth, Harry scribbled a note to Ron explaining where he'd gone and
went down the spiral staircase to the common room, his Nimbus Two
Thousand on his shoulder. He had just reached the portrait hole when
there was a clatter behind him and Colin Creevey came dashing down
the spiral staircase, his camera swinging madly around his neck and
something clutched in his hand.


ve got here! I


*105*

Harry looked bemusedly at the photograph Colin was brandishing
under his nose.

A moving, black-and-white Lockhart was tugging hard on an arm
Harry recognized as his own. He was pleased to see that his
photographic self was putting up a good fight and refusing to be
dragged into view. As Harry watched, Lockhart gave up and
slumped, panting, against the white edge of the picture.


 said Colin eagerly.


 said Harry flatly, glancing around to check that the room was
really deserted. 
m in a hurry - Quidditch practice -"

He climbed through the portrait hole.

"Oh, wow! Wait for me! I


Colin scrambled through the hole after him.


ll be really boring," Harry said quickly, but Colin ignored him, his
face shining with excitement.

"You were the youngest House player in a hundred years, weren
t you?" said Colin, trotting alongside him. "You
must be brilliant. I


Harry didn't know how to get rid of him. It was like having an
extremely talkative shadow.


t really understand Quidditch," said Colin breathlessly. "Is it
true there are four balls? And two of them fly around trying to knock
people off their brooms?"

"Yes," said Harry heavily, resigned to explaining the complicated
rules of Quidditch. "They



 Colin asked, tripping down a
couple of steps because he was gazing open-mouthed at Harry.


s the biggish red one - is the one that scores
goals. Three Chasers on each team throw the Quaffle to each other
and try and get it through the goal posts at the end of the pitch -
they






 said Harry, 
s very small, very fast, and
difficult to catch. But that
s got to do, because a
game of Quidditch doesn
s Seeker gets the Snitch earns his team an extra
hundred and fifty points."

"And you
t you?" said Colin in awe.

"Yes," said Harry as they left the castle and started across the dew-
drenched grass. "And there
s it, really."

But Colin didn
I'll go and get a good seat, Harry!
There you are, Harry, what kept you?
Now, I
wanted a quick talk with you all before we actually get onto the field,
because I spent the summer devising a whole new training program,
which I really think will make all the difference ....

Wood was holding up a large diagram of a Quidditch field, on which
were drawn many lines, arrows, and crosses in differentcolored inks.
He took out his wand, tapped the board, and the arrows began to
wiggle over the diagram like caterpillars. As Wood launched into a
speech about his new tactics, Fred Weasley's head drooped right
onto Alicia Spinnet's shoulder and he began to snore.

The first board took nearly twenty minutes to explain, but there was
another board under that, and a third under that one. Harry sank into
a stupor as Wood droned on and on.


 said Wood, at long last, jerking Harry from a wistful fantasy
about what he could be eating for breakfast at this very moment up
at the castle. 



ve got a question, Oliver," said George, who had woken with a
start. "Why couldn


Wood wasn't pleased.


 he said, glowering at them all. 
re easily the best
team. But unfortunately -owing to circumstances beyond our control -
"

*108*

Harry shifted guiltily in his seat. He had been unconscious in the
hospital wing for the final match of the previous year, meaning that
Gryffindor had been a player short and had suffered their worst
defeat in three hundred years.

Wood took a moment to regain control of himself. Their last defeat
was clearly still torturing him.

"So this year, we train harder than ever before .... Okay, let
 Wood shouted, seizing his
broomstick and leading the way out of the locker rooms. Stifflegged
and still yawning, his team followed.

They had been in the locker room so long that the sun was up
completely now, although remnants of mist hung over the grass in the
stadium. As Harry walked onto the field, he saw Ron and Hermione
sitting in the stands.


t you finished yet?" called Ron incredulously.

"Haven
 said Harry, looking jealously at the toast and
marmalade Ron and Hermione had brought out of the Great Hall.

s been teaching us new moves."

He mounted his broomstick and kicked at the ground, soaring up into
the air. The cool morning air whipped his face, waking him far more
effectively than Wood
What's that funny clicking noise?
Look this way, Harry! This way!
Who's that?
No idea,
What's going on?
Why's that first year taking pictures? I don't like it.
He could be a Slytherin spy, trying to find out about our new training
program.
He's in Gryffindor,
And the Slytherins don't need a spy, Oliver,
What makes you say that?
Because they're here in person,
I don't believe it!
I booked the field for
today! We'll see about this!
Flint!
This is our practice
time! We got up specially! You can clear off now!
Plenty of room for all of us, Wood.
But I booked the field!
I
booked it!
Ah,
But I've got a specially signed note here from
Professor Snape. `I, Professor S. Snape, give the Slytherin team
permission to practice today on the Quidditch field owing to the need to
train their new Seeker.


"You
 said Wood, distracted. 


And from behind the six large figures before them came a seventh,
smaller boy, smirking all over his pale, pointed face. It was Draco
Malfoy.


t you Lucius Malfoy
 said Fred, looking at Malfoy with
dislike.


s father," said Flint as the whole
Slytherin team smiled still more broadly. "Let me show you the
generous gift he


All seven of them held out their broomsticks. Seven highly polished,
brand-new handles and seven sets of fine gold lettering spelling the
words Nimbus Two Thousand and One gleamed under the Gryffindors'
noses in the early morning sun.


 said Flint carelessly,
flicking a speck of dust from the end of his own. 
 - he smiled nastily at Fred and George, who were both
clutching Cleansweep Fives - 


None of the Gryffindor team could think of anything to say for a
moment. Malfoy was smirking so broadly his cold eyes were reduced
to slits.


 said Flint. 


Ron and Hermione were crossing the grass to see what was going on.

*111*


s happening?" Ron asked Harry. "Why aren
s he doing here?"

He was looking at Malfoy, taking in his Slytherin Quidditch robes.

"I
 said Malfoy, smugly.

s just been admiring the brooms my father
Good, aren't they?
But perhaps the
Gryffindor team will be able to raise some gold and get new brooms,
too. You could raffle off those Cleansweep Fives; I expect a museum
would bid for them.
At least no one on the Gryffindor team had to buy their way in,
They got in on pure talent.
s face flickered.

"No one asked your opinion, you fiIthy little Mudblood," he spat.

Harry knew at once that Malfoy had said something really bad
because there was an instant uproar at his words. Flint had to dive in
front of Malfoy to stop Fred and George jumping on him, Alicia
shrieked, "How dare you!" ; and Ron plunged his hand into his robes,
pulled out his wand, yelling, "You
 and
pointed it furiously under Flint's arm at Malfoys face.

A loud bang echoed around the stadium and a jet of green light shot
out of the wrong end of Ron's wand, hitting him in the stomach and
sending him reeling backward onto the grass.

12


 squealed Hermione.

Ron opened his mouth to speak, but no words came out. Instead he
gave an almighty belch and several slugs dribbled out of his mouth
onto his lap.

The Slytherin team were paralyzed with laughter. Flint was doubled
up, hanging onto his new broomstick for support. Malfoy was on all
fours, banging the ground with his fist. The Gryffindors were
gathered around Ron, who kept belching large, glistening slugs.
Nobody seemed to want to touch him.


d better get him to Hagrid
s nearest," said Harry to
Hermione, who nodded bravely, and the pair of them pulled Ron up
by the arms.

"What happened, Harry? What happened? Is he ill? But you can
cure him, can
 Colin had run down from his seat and was now
dancing alongside them as they left the field. Ron gave a huge heave
and more slugs dribbled down his front.


 said Colin, fascinated and raising his camera. 



 said Harry angrily. He and Hermione
supported Ron out of the stadium and across the grounds toward
the edge of the forest.


 said Hermione as the gamekeeper's cabin came
into view. 
ll be all right in a minute - almost there -"

They were within twenty feet of Hagrid
t Hagrid who emerged. Gilderoy Lockhart,
wearing robes of palest mauve today, came striding out.

"Quick, behind here," Harry hissed, dragging Ron behind a nearby
bush. Hermione followed, somewhat reluctantly.

*113* *

"It
re doing!" Lockhart was
saying loudly to Hagrid. "If you need help, you know where I am! I
m surprised you haven
ll sign one tonight and send it over. Well, good-bye!" And he
strode away toward the castle.

Harry waited until Lockhart was out of sight, then pulled Ron out of
the bush and up to Hagrid
Bin wonderin' when you'd come ter see me - come in, come in -
thought you mighta bin Professor Lockhart back again -
t seem perturbed by Ron
Better out than in,
Get 'em all up, Ron.
I don't think there's anything to do except wait for it to stop,
That's a
difficult curse to work at the best of times, but with a broken wand -
What did Lockhart want with you, Hagrid?
s ears.

"Givin
 kelpies out of a well," growled

*114*

Hagrid, moving a half-plucked rooster off his scrubbed table and
setting down the teapot. "Like I don
 bangin
ll eat my
kettle."

It was most unlike Hagrid to criticize a Hogwarts
I think you're being a bit unfair.
Professor Dumbledore obviously thought he was the best man for
the job -
He was the on' man for the job,
An' I mean the on' one. Gettin' very difficult ter find anyone fer Y

the Dark Arts job. People aren't too keen ter take it on, see. They're
startin' ter think it's jinxed. No one's lasted long fer a while now. So
tell me,
Who was he tryin' ter
curse?
Malfoy called Hermione something - it must've been really bad,
because everyone went wild.
It was bad,
Malfoy called her `Mudblood,' Hagrid -
He didn'!
He did,
But I don't know what it means. I could tell it
was really rude, of course -
It's about the most insulting thing he could think of,
Mudblood's a really foul name for someone who is
Muggle-born - you know, non-magic parents. There are

*115*

some wizards - like Malfoy's family - who think they're better than
everyone else because they're what people call pure-blood.
I mean, the rest of us know it
doesn't make any difference at all. Look at Neville Longbottom -
he's pure-blood and he can hardly stand a cauldron the right way
up.
An' they haven't invented a spell our Hermione can' do,
It's a disgusting thing to call someone,
Dirty blood, see. Common blood. It's
ridiculous. Most wizards these days are half-blood anyway. If we
hadn't married Muggles we'd've died out.
Well, I don' blame yeh fer tryin' ter curse him, Ron,
Bu' maybe it
was a good thing yer wand backfired. 'Spect Lucius Malfoy
would've come marchin' up ter school if yeh'd cursed his son. Least
yer not in trouble.
t come much worse
than having slugs pouring out of your mouth, but he couldn
s
treacle fudge had cemented his jaws together.

"Harry," said Hagrid abruptly as though struck by a sudden thought.
"Gotta bone ter pick with yeh. I
ve bin givin
t got one?"

Furious, Harry wrenched his teeth apart.

"I have not been giving out signed photos," he said hotly. "If
Lockhart


*116*

But then he saw that Hagrid was laughing.


m on
," he said, patting Harry genially on the back and
sending him face first into the table. "I knew yeh hadn
 need teh. Yer more famous than him without
tryin



t like that," said Harry, sitting up and rubbing his chin.

"Don
 said Hagrid, his eyes twinkling. 
 then I told
him Id never read one o
 he decided ter go. Treacle
fudge, Ron?" he added as Ron reappeared.

"No thanks," said Ron weakly. "Better not risk it."

"Come an
ve bin growin
 said Hagrid as Harry and
Hermione finished the last of their tea.

In the small vegetable patch behind Hagrid's house were a dozen of
the largest pumpkins Harry had ever seen. Each was the size of a
large boulder.


 on well, aren
 said Hagrid happily. 



ve you been feeding them?" said Harry.

Hagrid looked over his shoulder to check that they were alone.

"Well, I
 them - you know - a bit o


Harry noticed Hagrid's flowery pink umbrella leaning against the back
wall of the cabin. Harry had had reason to believe before now that
this umbrella was not all it looked; in fact, he had the strong
impression that Hagrid's old school wand was concealed inside it.
Hagrid wasn't supposed to use magic. He had been expelled from
Hogwarts in his third year, but Harry had never found out why -any
mention of the matter and Hagrid would clear his

*117*

throat loudly and become mysteriously deaf until the subject was
changed.


 said Hermione, halfway
between disapproval and amusement. 
ve done a good job on
them."

"That
 said Hagrid, nodding at Ron. 
 yesterday." Hagrid looked sideways at Harry, his beard
twitching. "Said she was jus
 round the grounds, but I reckon
she was hopin
 He
winked at Harry. 
 say no ter a signed -"

"Oh, shut up," said Harry. Ron snorted with laughter and the ground
was sprayed with slugs.

"Watch it!" Hagrid roared, pulling Ron away from his precious
pumpkins.

It was nearly lunchtime and as Harry had only had one bit of treacle
fudge since dawn, he was keen to go back to school to eat. They said
good-bye to Hagrid and walked back up to the castle, Ron hiccoughing
occasionally, but only bringing up two very small slugs.

They had barely set foot in the cool entrance hall when a voice rang
out, "There you are, Potter - Weasley." Professor McGonagall was
walking toward them, looking stern. "You will both do your detentions
this evening."

"What
 said Ron, nervously suppressing a
burp.



said Professor McGonagall. 


*118*

Ron gulped. Argus Filch, the caretaker, was loathed by every student
in the school.


 said Professor McGonagall.


t I go and do the trophy room, too?" said Harry
desperately.

"Certainly not," said Professor McGonagall, raising her eyebrows.
"Professor Lockhart requested you particularly. Eight o


Harry and Ron slouched into the Great Hall in states of deepest
gloom, Hermione behind them, wearing a well-you-did-break-school-
rules  sort of expression. Harry didn't enjoy his shepherd's pie as
much as he'd thought. Both he and Ron felt they'd got the worse deal.


ll have me there all night," said Ron heavily. "No magic! There
must be about a hundred cups in that room. I



d swap anytime," said Harry hollowly. "I
s fan mail ... he
s office. He gritted his
teeth and knocked.

The door flew open at once. Lockhart beamed down at him.

"Ah, here
 he said. 


Shining brightly on the walls by the light of many candles were
countless framed photographs of Lockhart. He had even signed a few
of them. Another large pile lay on his desk.




 Lockhart told Harry, as though
this was a huge treat. 
s to Gladys Gudgeon, bless her -
huge fan of mine -"

The minutes snailed by. Harry let Lockhart
Mmm
Right
Yeah.
Fame's a fickle friend, Harry,
Celebrity
is as celebrity does, remember that.
s address. It must be nearly time to leave, Harry
thought miserably, please let it be nearly time...

And then he heard something - something quite apart from the
spitting of the dying candles and Lockhart
Come ... come to me.... Let me rip you.... Let me tear you .... Let me kill you . .
. .
s street.

"What?" he said loudly.

"I know!" said Lockhart. "Six solid months at the top of the best-
seller list! Broke all records!"

"No," said Harry frantically. "That voice!"

"Sorry?" said Lockhart, looking puzzled. "What voice?"

"That - that voice that said - didn


Lockhart was looking at Harry in high astonishment.

* 3-2o *


re getting a litde
drowsy? Great Scott - look at the time! We
s flown, hasn


Harry didn't answer. He was straining his ears to hear the voice again,
but there was no sound now except for Lockhart telling him he mustn't
expect a treat like this every time he got detention. Feeling dazed,
Harry left.

It was so late that the Gryffindor common room was almost empty.
Harry went straight up to the dormitory. Ron wasn't back yet. Harry
pulled on his pajamas, got into bed, and waited. Half an hour later, Ron
arrived, nursing his right arm and bringing a strong smell of polish into
the darkened room.


 he groaned, sinking on his bed.



Keeping his voice low so as not to wake Neville, Dean, and Seamus,
Harry told Ron exactly what he had heard.


t hear it?" said Ron. Harry could see
him frowning in the moonlight. "D
t
get it - even someone invisible would



 said Harry, lying back in his four-poster and staring at the
canopy above him. 
t get it either."

* 12-1 *

122
October arrived, spreading a damp chill over the grounds and into the castle.
Madam Pomfrey, the nurse, was kept busy by a sudden spate of colds among
the staff and students. Her Pepperup potion worked instantly, though it left
the drinker smoking at the ears for several hours afterward. Ginny Weasley,
who had been looking pale, was bullied into taking some by Percy. The
steam pouring from under her vivid hair gave the impression that her whole
head was on fire.
Raindrops the size of bullets thundered on the castle windows for days on
end; the lake rose, the flower beds turned into muddy streams, and Hagrid
s enthusiasm for
regular training sessions, however, was not dampened, which was why Harry
was to be found, late one stormy Saturday afternoon a few days before
Halloween, returning to Gryffindor Tower, drenched to the skin and
splattered with mud..


123
Even aside from the rain and wind it hadn
. . . don't fulfill their requirements . . . half an inch, if that .
. .
Hello, Nick,
Hello, hello,
You look troubled, young Potter,
So do you,
Ah,
a matter of no
importance. . . . It's not as though I really wanted to join. . . . Thought I'd
apply, but apparently I 'don't fulfill requirements' -
But you would think, wouldn't you,
that getting hit forty-five times in the neck with a
blunt axe would qualify you to join the Headless Hunt?
Oh - yes,
I mean, nobody wishes more than I do that it had all been quick and clean,
and my head had come off properly, I mean, it would have saved me a great
deal of pain and ridicule. However -
'We can only accept huntsmen whose heads have
parted company with their bodies. You will appreciate that it would be
impossible otherwise for members to participate in hunt activities such as
Horseback Head-Juggling and Head Polo. It is with the greatest regret,
therefore, that I must inform you that you do not fulfill our requirements.
With very best wishes, Sir Patrick Delaney-Podmore.'
Half an inch of skin and sinew holding my neck on, Harry! Most people
would think that's good and beheaded, but oh, no, it's not enough for Sir
Properly Decapitated-Podmore.
So - what's bothering you? Anything I can do?
No,
Not unless you know where we can get seven free
Nimbus Two Thousand and Ones for our match against Sly -
s sentence was drowned out by a high-pitched mewling
from somewhere near his ankles. He looked down and found himself gazing
into a pair of lamp-like yellow eyes. It was Mrs. Norris, the skeletal gray cat
who was used by the caretaker, Argus Filch, as a sort of deputy in his
endless battle against students.
"You
 said Nick quickly. 
t in a
good mood - he
s been cleaning all morning,
and if he sees you dripping mud all over the place -"

.125
"Right," said Harry, backing away from the accusing stare of Mrs. Norris,
but not quickly enough. Drawn to the spot by the mysterious power that
seemed to connect him with his foul cat, Argus Filch burst suddenly through
a tapestry to Harry
Filth!
s Quidditch robes.
"Mess and muck everywhere! I

So Harry waved a gloomy good-bye to Nearly Headless Nick and followed
Filch back downstairs, doubling the number of muddy footprints on the
floor.
Harry had never been inside Filch's office before; it was a place most
students avoided. The room was dingy and windowless, lit by a single oil
lamp dangling from the low ceiling. A faint smell of fried fish lingered about
the place. Wooden filing cabinets stood around the walls; from their labels,
Harry could see that they contained details of every pupil Filch had ever
punished. Fred and George Weasley had an entire drawer to themselves. A
highly polished collection of chains and manacles hung on the wall behind
Filch's desk. It was common knowledge that he was always begging
Dumbledore to let him suspend students by their ankles from the ceiling.
Filch grabbed a quill from a pot on his desk and began shuffling around
looking for parchment.

 he muttered furiously, 
ve had enough of it . . . make an example . . . where


.126
He retrieved a large roll of parchment from his desk drawer and stretched it
out in front of him, dipping his long black quill into the ink pot.



 said Harry.

s only a bit of mud to you, boy, but to me it

shouted Filch, a drip shivering unpleasantly at the end of his bulbous nose.


Dabbing at his streaming nose, Filch squinted unpleasantly at Harry who
waited with bated breath for his sentence to fall.
But as Filch lowered his quill, there was a great BANG! on the ceiling of
the office, which made the oil lamp rattle.

 Filch roared, flinging down his quill in a transport of rage. 
ll
have you this time, I

And without a backward glance at Harry, Filch ran flat-footed from the
office, Mrs. Norris streaking alongside him.
Peeves was the school poltergeist, a grinning, airborne menace who lived to
cause havoc and distress. Harry didn't much like Peeves, but couldn't help
feeling grateful for his timing. Hopefully, whatever Peeves had done (and it
sounded as though he'd wrecked something very big this time) would
distract Filch from Harry.
Thinking that he should probably wait for Filch to come back, Harry sank
into a moth-eaten chair next to the desk. There was only one thing on it apart
from his half-completed form: a large, glossy, purple envelope with silver
lettering on the front. With a quick glance at the door to check that Filch
wasn't on his way back, Harry picked up the envelope and read: kwikspell A
Correspondence Course in Beginners' Magic.

127
Intrigued, Harry flicked the envelope open and pulled out the sheaf of
parchment inside. More curly silver writing on the front page said: Feel out
of step in the world of modern magic? Find yourself making excuses not to
perform simple spells? Ever been taunted for your woeful wandwork? There
is an answer! Kwikspell is an all-new, fail-safe, quick-result, easy-learn
course. Hundreds of witches and wizards have benefited from the Kwikspell
method! Madam Z. Nettles of Topsham writes: 
 Warlock D. J. Prod of Didsbury says: 

Fascinated, Harry thumbed through the rest of the envelope's contents. Why
on earth did Filch want a Kwikspell course? Did this mean he wasn't a
proper wizard? Harry was just reading 
 when shuffling footsteps outside told him Filch was
coming back. Stuffing the parchment back into the envelope, Harry threw it
back onto the desk just as the door opened.
Filch was looking triumphant.

 he was saying gleefully to
Mrs. Norris. 
ll have Peeves out this time, my sweet -"
His eyes fell on Harry and then darted to the Kwikspell envelope, which,
Harry realized too late, was lying two feet away from where it had started.
Filch
Have you - did you read -?
No,
s knobbly hands were twisting together.
"If I thought you
s mine - for a friend - be that
as it may - however -"
Harry was staring at him, alarmed; Filch had never looked madder. His eyes
were popping, a tic was going in one of his pouchy cheeks, and the tartan
scarf didn
Very well - go - and don't breathe a word - not that - however, if you didn't
read - go now, I have to write up Peeves' report - go -
s office without punishment was probably
some kind of school record.
"Harry! Harry! Did it work?"
Nearly Headless Nick came gliding out of a classroom. Behind him, Harry
could see the wreckage of a large black-and-gold cabinet that appeared to
have been dropped from a great height.
"I persuaded Peeves to crash it right over Filch
 said Nick eagerly.



 said Harry gratefully. 
t even get
detention. Thanks, Nick!"
They set off up the corridor together. Nearly Headless Nick, Harry noticed,
was still holding Sir Patrick
I wish there was something I could do for you about the Headless Hunt,
t; it was like stepping through an icy shower.
"But there is something you could do for me," said Nick excitedly. "Harry -
would I be asking too much - but no, you wouldn


 said Harry.

 said Nearly
Headless Nick, drawing himself up and looking dignified.

 said Harry, not sure whether he should look sorry or happy about this.



m holding a party down in one of the roomier dungeons. Friends will be
coming from all over the country. It would be such an honor if you would
attend. Mr. Weasley and Miss Granger would be most welcome, too, of
course - but I daresay you
 He watched Harry
on tenterhooks.

 said Harry quickly, 
ll come -"
"My dear boy! Harry Potter, at my deathday party! And" - he hesitated,
looking excited - "do you think you could possibly mention to Sir Patrick
how very frightening and impressive you find me?"
"Of - of course," said Harry.
Nearly Headless Nick beamed at him. "A deathday party?" said Hermione
keenly when Harry had changed at last and joined her and Ron in the
common room. "I bet there aren
ve
been to one of those - it
.

130

 said Ron, who
was halfway through his Potions homework and grumpy. 

Rain was still lashing the windows, which were now inky black, but inside
all looked bright and cheerful. The firelight glowed over the countless
squashy armchairs where people sat reading, talking, doing homework or, in
the case of Fred and George Weasley, trying to find out what would happen
if you fed a Filibuster firework to a salamander. Fred had 
 the
brilliant orange, fire-dwelling lizard from a Care of Magical Creatures class
and it was now smouldering gently on a table surrounded by a knot of
curious people.
Harry was at the point of telling Ron and Hermione about Filch and the
Kwikspell course when the salamander suddenly whizzed into the air,
emitting loud sparks and bangs as it whirled wildly round the room. The
sight of Percy bellowing himself hoarse at Fred and George, the spectacular
display of tangerine stars showering from the salamander's mouth, and its
escape into the fire, with accompanying explosions, drove both Filch and the
Kwikspell envelope from Harry's mind. By the time Halloween arrived,
Harry was regretting his rash promise to go to the deathday party. The rest of
the school was happily anticipating their Halloween feast; the Great Hall had
been decorated with the usual live bats, Hagrid's vast pumpkins had been
carved into lanterns large enough for three men to sit in, and there were
rumors that Dumbledore had booked a troupe of dancing skeletons for the
entertainment.

 Hermione reminded Harry bossily. 
d go to the deathday party."
So at seven o
s party had been lined
with candles, too, though the effect was far from cheerful: These were long,
thin, jet-black tapers, all burning bright blue, casting a dim, ghostly light
even over their own living faces. The temperature dropped with every step
they took. As Harry shivered and drew his robes tightly around him, he
heard what sounded like a thousand fingernails scraping an enormous
blackboard.
"Is that supposed to be music?" Ron whispered. They turned a corner and
saw Nearly Headless Nick standing at a doorway hung with black velvet
drapes.
"My dear friends," he said mournfully. "Welcome, welcome . . . so pleased
you could come. . . ."
He swept off his plumed hat and bowed them inside.
It was an incredible sight. The dungeon was full of hundreds of pearly-white,
translucent people, mostly drifting around a crowded dance floor,
waltzing to the dreadful, quavering sound of thirty musical saws, played by
an orchestra on a raised, black-draped platform. A chandelier overhead
blazed midnight-blue with a thousand more black candles. Their breath rose
in a mist before them; it was like stepping into a freezer.
"Shall we have a look around?" Harry suggested, wanting to warm up his
feet.
"Careful not to walk through anyone," said Ron nervously, and they set off
around the edge of the dance floor. They passed a group of gloomy nuns, a
ragged man wearing chains, and the Fat Friar, a cheerful Hufflepuff ghost,
who was talking to a knight with an arrow sticking out of his forehead. Harry
wasn
Oh, no,
Turn back, turn back, I don't
want to talk to Moaning Myrtle -
Who?
She haunts one of the toilets in the girls' bathroom on the first floor,
She haunts a toilet?
Yes. It's been out-of-order all year because she keeps having tantrums and
flooding the place. I never went in there anyway if I could avoid it; it's awful
trying to have a pee with her wailing at you -
Look, food!
Can you taste it if you walk though it?
Almost,
I expect they've let it rot to give it a stronger flavor,
Can we move? I feel sick,
Hello, Peeves,
Nibbles?
No thanks,
Heard you talking about poor Myrtle,
Rude you was about poor Myrtle.
OY! MYRTLE!
Oh, no, Peeves, don't tell her what I said, she'll be really upset,
I didn't mean it, I don't mind her - er, hello, Myrtle.
What?
How are you, Myrtle?
It's nice to
see you out of the toilet.
Miss Granger was just talking about you -
s
ear.
"Just saying - saying - how nice you look tonight," said Hermione, glaring
at Peeves.
Myrtle eyed Hermione suspiciously.
"You
 she said, silver tears welling rapidly in her
small, see-through eyes.

t I just say how nice Myrtle
 said
Hermione, nudging Harry and Ron painfully in the ribs.





t lie to me," Myrtle gasped, tears now flooding down her face, while
Peeves chuckled happily over her shoulder. "D
t know what
people call me behind my back? Fat Myrtle! Ugly Myrtle! Miserable,
moaning, moping Myrtle!"
"You
 Peeves hissed in her ear.
Moaning Myrtle burst into anguished sobs and fled from the dungeon.
Peeves shot after her, pelting her with moldy peanuts, yelling, 


 said Hermione sadly.
Nearly Headless Nick now drifted toward them through the crowd.

.135



 they lied.

 said Nearly Headless Nick proudly. 
s nearly time for my speech,
I

The orchestra, however, stopped playing at that very moment. They, and
everyone else in the dungeon, fell silent, looking around in excitement, as a
hunting horn sounded.

 said Nearly Headless Nick bitterly.
Through the dungeon wall burst a dozen ghost horses, each ridden by a
headless horseman. The assembly clapped wildly; Harry started to clap, too,
but stopped quickly at the sight of Nick's face.
The horses galloped into the middle of the dance floor and halted, rearing
and plunging. At the front of the pack was a large ghost who held his
bearded head under his arm, from which position he was blowing the horn.
The ghost leapt down, lifted his head high in the air so he could see over the
crowd (everyone laughed), and strode over to Nearly Headless Nick,
squashing his head back onto his neck.

 he roared. 

He gave a hearty guffaw and clapped Nearly Headless Nick on the shoulder.

 said Nick stiffly.

uns!" said Sir Patrick, spotting Harry, Ron, and Hermione and giving
a huge, fake jump of astonishment, so that his head fell off again (the crowd
howled with laughter).

.136
"Very amusing," said Nearly Headless Nick darkly.
"Don
 shouted Sir Patrick's head from the floor. 
t let him join the Hunt! But I mean to say - look at the fellow -"
"I think," said Harry hurriedly, at a meaningful look from Nick, "Nick


 yelled Sir Patrick's head. 


s attention, it
 said Nearly
Headless Nick loudly, striding toward the podium and climbing into an icy
blue spotlight.


But nobody heard much more. Sir Patrick and the rest of the Headless Hunt
had just started a game of Head Hockey and the crowd were turning to
watch. Nearly Headless Nick tried vainly to recapture his audience, but gave
up as Sir Patrick's head went sailing past him to loud cheers.
Harry was very cold by now, not to mention hungry.

t stand much more of this," Ron muttered, his teeth chattering, as the
orchestra ground back into action and the ghosts swept back onto the dance
floor.
"Let
 Harry agreed.
They backed toward the door, nodding and beaming at anyone who looked
at them, and a minute later were hurrying back up the passageway full of
black candles.

 said Ron hopefully, leading the way
toward the steps to the entrance hall.

.137
And then Harry heard it.


It was the same voice, the same cold, murderous voice he had heard in
Lockhart's office.
He stumbled to a halt, clutching at the stone wall, listening with all his
might, looking around, squinting up and down the dimly lit passageway.

re you -?"
"It




 said Harry urgently, and Ron and Hermione froze, watching him.


The voice was growing fainter. Harry was sure it was moving away -
moving upward. A mixture of fear and excitement gripped him as he stared
at the dark ceiling; how could it be moving upward? Was it a phantom, to
whom stone ceilings didn't matter?

 he shouted, and he began to run, up the stairs, into the entrance
hall. It was no good hoping to hear anything here, the babble of talk from the
Halloween feast was echoing out of the Great Hall. Harry sprinted up the
marble staircase to the first floor, Ron and Hermione clattering behind him.

re we -"
"SHH!"

.138
Harry strained his ears. Distantly, from the floor above, and growing fainter
still, he heard the voice: ". . . I smell blood. . . . I SMELL BLOOD!"
His stomach lurched -
"It
 he shouted, and ignoring Ron's and Hermione's
bewildered faces, he ran up the next flight of steps three at a time, trying to
listen over his own pounding footsteps -
Harry hurtled around the whole of the second floor, Ron and Hermione
panting behind him, not stopping until they turned a corner into the last,
deserted passage.

 said Ron, wiping sweat off his face. 
t hear anything. . . ."
But Hermione gave a sudden gasp, pointing down the corridor.
"Look!"
Something was shining on the wall ahead. They approached slowly,
squinting through the darkness. Foot-high words had been daubed on the
wall between two windows, shimmering in the light cast by the flaming
torches. the chamber of secrets has been opened. enemies of the heir,
beware.
"What
 said Ron, a slight quiver in his
voice.
As they edged nearer, Harry almost slipped - there was a large puddle of
water on the floor; Ron and Hermione grabbed him, and they inched toward
the message, eyes fixed on a dark shadow beneath it. All three of them
realized what it was at once, and leapt backward with a splash..Mrs. Norris, 


the caretaker's cat, was hanging by her tail from the torch
bracket. She was stiff as a board, her eyes wide and staring.
For a few seconds, they didn't move. Then Ron said, 
s get out of here."
"Shouldn
 Harry began awkwardly.

 said Ron. 
t want to be found here."
But it was too late. A rumble, as though of distant thunder, told them that
the feast had just ended. From either end of the corridor where they stood
came the sound of hundreds of feet climbing the stairs, and the loud, happy
talk of well-fed people; next moment, students were crashing into the
passage from both ends.
The chatter, the bustle, the noise died suddenly as the people in front spotted
the hanging cat. Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood alone, in the middle of the
corridor, as silence fell among the mass of students pressing forward to see
the grisly sight.
Then someone shouted through the quiet.
"Enemies of the Heir, beware! You

It was Draco Malfoy. He had pushed to the front of the crowd, his cold eyes
alive, his usually bloodless face flushed, as he grinned at the sight of the
hanging, immobile cat.

C H A P T X IR		N I N E

THE WRTITING
ON THE WALL

What's going on here? What's going on?
s shout, Argus Filch came shouldering his way through the
crowd. Then he saw Mrs. Norris and fell back, clutching his face in
horror.

"My cat! My cat! What
 he shrieked.

And his popping eyes fell on Harry.


he screeched. 
ve murdered my cat! You
ll kill you! I





Dumbledore had arrived on the scene, followed by a number of other
teachers. In seconds, he had swept past Harry, Ron, and Hermione
and detached Mrs. Norris from the torch bracket.


 he said to Filch. 


Lockhart stepped forward eagerly.

*140*







 said Dumbledore.

The silent crowd parted to let them pass. Lockhart, looking excited and
important, hurried after Dumbledore; so did Professors McGonagall
and Snape.

As they entered Lockhart's darkened office there was a flurry of
movement across the walls; Harry saw several of the Lockharts in the
pictures dodging out of sight, their hair in rollers. The real Lockhart lit
the candles on his desk and stood back. Dumbledore lay Mrs. Norris
on the polished surface and began to examine her. Harry, Ron, and
Hermione exchanged tense looks and sank into chairs outside the pool
of candlelight, watching.

The tip of Dumbledore's long, crooked nose was barely an inch from
Mrs. Norris's fur. He was looking at her closely through his half-moon
spectacles, his long fingers gently prodding and poking. Professor
McGonagall was bent almost as close, her eyes narrowed. Snape
loomed behind them, half in shadow, wearing a most peculiar
expression: It was as though he was trying hard not to smile. And
Lockhart was hovering around all of them, making suggestions.


ve seen it used many times, so unlucky I wasn
s comments were punctuated by Filch
t help feeling a bit sorry for him, though not nearly as sorry as
he felt for himself If Dumbledore believed Filch, he would be expelled
for sure.

Dumbledore was now muttering strange words under his breath and
tapping Mrs. Norris with his wand but nothing happened: She
continued to look as though she had been recently stuffed.

". . . I remember something very similar happening in Ouagadogou,"
said Lockhart, "a series of attacks, the full story
She's not dead, Argus,
Not dead?
But why's she all - all stiff and frozen?
She has been Petrified,
Ah! I thought so!
But how, I cannot say . . . .
Ask him!
No second year could have done this,
it
would take Dark Magic of the most advanced -
He did it, he did it!
You saw
what he wrote on the wall! He found - in my office - he knows I'm a -
I'm a -
s face worked horribly. "He knows I
 he
finished.

142


 Harry said loudly, uncomfortably
aware of everyone looking at him, including all the Lockharts on the
walls. 
t even know what a Squib is."

"Rubbish!" snarled Filch. "He saw my Kwikspell letter!"

"If I might speak, Headmaster," said Snape from the shadows, and
Harry
Potter and his friends may have simply been in the wrong place at the
wrong time,
But we do have a set of suspicious circumstances here.
Why was he in the upstairs corridor at all? Why wasn't he at the
Halloween feast?
. . . there were hundreds of ghosts, theyll tell you we were
there -
But why not join the feast afterward?
Why go up to that corridor?
Because - because -
because we were tired and wanted to go to bed,
Without any supper?
I didn't think ghosts provided food fit for living people
at their parties.
We weren't hungry,
s nasty smile widened.

*143*

"I suggest, Headmaster, that Potter is not being entirely truthful," he
said. "It might be a good idea if he were deprived of certain privileges
until he is ready to tell us the whole story. I personally feel he should
be taken off the Gryffindor Quidditch team until he is ready to be
honest."

"Really, Severus," said Professor McGonagall sharply, "I see no
reason to stop the boy playing Quidditch. This cat wasn


Dumbledore was giving Harry a searching look. His twinkling light-
blue gaze made Harry feel as though he were being X-rayed.


 he said firmly.

Snape looked furious. So did Filch.


 he shrieked, his eyes popping. 



 said Dumbledore patiently.




ll make it," Lockhart butted in. "I must have done it a hundred times.
I could whip up a Mandrake Restorative Draught in my sleep -"

"Excuse me," said Snape icily. "But I believe I am the Potions master
at this school."

There was a very awkward pause.

"You may go," Dumbledore said to Harry, Ron, and Hermione.

They went, as quickly as they could without actually running. When
they were a floor up from Lockhart
 darkened faces.

"D



 said Ron, without hesitation. 
t a good sign, even in the wizarding world."

Something in Ron
You do believe me, don't
you?
'Course I do,
But -you must admit it's weird ......


s weird," said Harry. "The whole thing
s that supposed to mean?"

"You know, it rings a sort of bell," said Ron slowly. "I think someone
told me a story about a secret chamber at Hogwarts once ... might



s a Squib?" said Harry.

To his surprise, Ron stifled a snigger.

"Well - it
s Filch, he said. "A Squib is
someone who was born into a wizarding family but hasn
s trying to learn magic from a
Kwikspell course, I reckon he must be a Squib. It would explain a lot.
Like why he hates students so much." Ron gave a satisfied smile.
"He


A clock chimed somewhere.


 said Harry. 
d better get to bed before Snape comes
along and tries to frame us for something else."

*145*



For a few days, the school could talk of little else but the attack on
Mrs. Norris. Filch kept it fresh in everyone
s All-Purpose Magical Mess Remover, but to no
effect; the words still gleamed as brightly as ever on the stone. When
Filch wasn
breathing loudly' and



Ginny Weasley seemed very disturbed by Mrs. Norris's fate.
According to Ron, she was a great cat lover.


t really got to know Mrs. Norris," Ron told her
bracingly. "Honestly, we
 Ginny's lip
trembled. 
t often happen at Hogwarts," Ron
assured her. "They
s got time to Petrify Filch before he
m only joking -" Ron added hastily as Ginny blanched.

The attack had also had an effect on Hermione. It was quite usual for
Hermione to spend a lot of time reading, but she was now doing
almost nothing else. Nor could Harry and Ron get much response
from her when they asked what she was up to, and not until the
following Wednesday did they find out.

Harry had been held back in Potions, where Snape had made him stay
behind to scrape tubeworms off the desks. After a hurried lunch, he
went upstairs to meet Ron in the library, and saw Justin Finch-
Fletchley, the Hufflepuff boy from Herbology, coming

*146*

toward him. Harry had just opened his mouth to say hello when Justin
caught sight of him, turned abruptly, and sped off in the opposite
direction.

Harry found Ron at the back of the library, measuring his History of
Magic homework. Professor Binns had asked for a threefoot-long
composition on "The Medieval Assembly of European

	Wizards."
	"I don
m still eight inches short 	said Ron fu

riously, letting go of his parchment, which sprang back into a roll.
"And Hermione
s
tiny. "

"Where is she?" asked Harry, grabbing the tape measure and unrolling
his own homework.

"Somewhere over there," said Ron, pointing along the shelves. "Looking
for another book. I think she


Harry told Ron about Justin Finch-Fletchley running away from him.


 said Ron,
scribbling away, making his writing as large as possible. 


Hermione emerged from between the bookshelves. She looked irritable
and at last seemed ready to talk to them.


 she said,
sitting down next to Harry and Ron. 
s a two-week waiting
list. I wish I hadn
t fit it in my trunk
with all the Lockhart books."

"Why do you want it?" said Harry.

*141*

"The same reason everyone else wants it," said Hermione, "to read
up on the legend of the Chamber of Secrets."

"What
 said Harry quickly.


s just it. I can
 said Hermione, biting her lip. 
t find the story anywhere else -"

"Hermione, let me read your composition," said Ron desperately,
checking his watch.

"No, I won
 said Hermione, suddenly severe. 
ve had ten
days to finish it -"

"I only need another two inches, come on -"

The bell rang. Ron and Hermione led the way to History of Magic,
bickering.

History of Magic was the dullest subject on their schedule. Professor
Binns, who taught it, was their only ghost teacher, and the most
exciting thing that ever happened in his classes was his entering the
room through the blackboard. Ancient and shriveled, many people
said he hadn
Miss - er -?
Granger, Professor. I was wondering if you could tell us anything
about the Chamber of Secrets,
s
head came up off her arms and Neville Longbottom
My subject is History of Magic,
I
deal with facts, Miss Granger, not myths and legends.
In
September of that year, a subcommittee of Sardinian sorcerers


s hand was waving in the air again.

"Miss Grant?"

"Please, sir, don


Professor Binns was looking at her in such amazement, Harry was
sure no student had ever interrupted him before, alive or dead.


 said Professor Binns slowly, 
 He peered at Hermione as though he had never seen a
student properly before. 


But the whole class was now hanging on Professor Binns's every
word. He looked dimly at them all, every face turned to his. Harry

*149*

could tell he was completely thrown by such an unusual show of
interest.


 he said slowly. 
You all know, of course, that Hogwarts was founded over a thousand
years ago - the precise date is uncertain - by the four greatest witches
and wizards of the age. The four school Houses are named after
them: Godric Gryffindor, Helga Hufflepuff, Rowena Ravenclaw, and
Salazar Slytherin. They built this castle together, far from prying
Muggle eyes, for it was an age when magic was feared by common
people, and witches and wizards suffered much persecution.
For a few years, the founders worked in harmony together, seeking
out youngsters who showed signs of magic and bringing them to the
castle to be educated. But then disagreements sprang up between
them. A rift began to grow between Slytherin and the others. Slytherin
wished to be more selective about the students admitted to Hogwarts. He
believed that magical learning should be kept within all-magic families.
He disliked taking students of Muggle parentage, believing them to be
untrustworthy. After a while, there was a serious argument on the
subject between Slytherin and Gryffindor, and Slytherin left the
school.
Reliable historical sources tell us this much,
But these
honest facts have been obscured by the fanciful legend of the
Chamber of Secrets. The story goes that Slytherin had built a

*150*

hidden chamber in the castle, of which the other founders knew
nothing.




There was silence as he finished telling the story, but it wasn't the
usual, sleepy silence that filled Professor Binns's classes. There was
unease in the air as everyone continued to watch him, hoping for
more. Professor Binns looked faintly annoyed.


 he said. 


Hermione's hand was back in the air.


 the
Chamber?"

"That is believed to be some sort of monster, which the Heir of
Slytherin alone can control," said Professor Binns in his dry, reedy
voice.

The class exchanged nervous looks.

"I tell you, the thing does not exist," said Professor Binns, shuffling his
notes. "There is no Chamber and no monster."

"But, sir," said Seamus Finnigan, "if the Chamber can only be opened
by Slytherin



Flaherty," said Professor Binns in an aggravated

*151*

tone. "If a long succession of Hogwarts headmasters and
headmistresses haven



 piped up Parvati Patil, 
d probably have to use
Dark Magic to open it -"

"Just because a wizard doesn
t mean he
can
 snapped Professor Binns. 



ve got to be related to Slytherin, so Dumbledore
couldn
 began Dean Thomas, but Professor Binns had had
enough.


 he said sharply. 


And within five minutes, the class had sunk back into its usual torpor.


 Ron told
Harry and Hermione as they fought their way through the teeming
corridors at the end of the lesson to drop off their bags before
dinner. 
t be in his house if you paid me. Honestly, if the Sorting Hat
had tried to put me in Slytherin, I
ve got the train straight back
home ......

Hermione nodded fervently, but Harry didn
d placed the hat on his head a year before: You could be great,
you know, it
s reputa

tion for turning out Dark wizards, had thought desperately, Not
Slytherin! and the hat had said, Oh, well, if you
Hiya, Harry!
Hullo, Colin,
Harry - Harry - a boy in my class has been saying you're

But Colin was so small he couldn~t fight against the tide of people
bearing him toward the Great Hall; they heard him squeak, 
 and he was gone.


s a boy in his class saying about you?" Hermione wondered.

"That I
s heir, I expect," said Harry, his stomach dropping
another inch or so as he suddenly remembered the way Justin Finch-
Fletchley had run away from him at lunchtime.

"People here
 said Ron in disgust.

The crowd thinned and they were able to climb the next staircase
without difficulty.


you really think there
 Ron asked
Hermione.


t know," she said, frowning. "Dumbledore couldn


As she spoke, they turned a corner and found themselves at the end
of the very corridor where the attack had happened. They stopped
and looked. The scene was just as it had been that night, except that
there was no stiff cat hanging from the torch bracket, and an empty
chair stood against the wall bearing the message 



s where Filch has been keeping guard," Ron muttered.

They looked at each other. The corridor was deserted.

"Can
 said Harry, dropping his bag and
getting to his hands and knees so that he could crawl along, searching
for clues.


 he said. 



 said Hermione. 


Harry got up and crossed to the window next to the message on the
wall. Hermione was pointing at the topmost pane, where around
twenty spiders were scuttling, apparently fighting to get through a
small crack. A long, silvery thread was dangling like a rope, as though
they had all climbed it in their hurry to get outside.


 said Hermione
wonderingly.


 said Harry, 


He looked over his shoulder. Ron was standing well back and seemed
to be fighting the impulse to run.


s up?" said Harry.

"I - don
 said Ron tensely.


 said Hermione, looking at Ron in surprise.

ve used spiders in Potions loads of times ......

*154*

"I don
 said Ron, who was carefully looking
anywhere but at the window. 
t like the way they move ....

Hermione giggled.

"It
 said Ron, fiercely. 
t like them either if
you


He broke off, shuddering. Hermione was obviously still trying not to
laugh. Feeling they had better get off the subject, Harry said,

s mopped it up."

"It was about here," said Ron, recovering himself to walk a few paces
past Filch
Level with this door.
d been burned.

"What
 said Harry.


t go in there," said Ron gruffly. "That
 toilet."

"Oh, Ron, there won
 said Hermione, standing up
and coming over. 
s Moaning Myrtle
s have
a look."

And ignoring the large OUT of ORDER sign, she opened the door.

It was the gloomiest, most depressing bathroom Harry had ever set
foot in. Under a large, cracked, and spotted mirror were a row of
chipped sinks. The floor was damp and reflected the dull light given
off by the stubs of a few candles, burning low in their holders; the
wooden doors to the stalls were flaking and scratched and one of
them was dangling off its hinges.

* -L 5,5

Hermione put her fingers to her lips and set off toward the end stall.
When she reached it she said, "Hello, Myrtle, how are you?"

Harry and Ron went to look. Moaning Myrtle was floating above the
tank of the toilet, picking a spot on her chin.

"This is a girls
 she said, eyeing Ron and Harry suspiciously.

re not girls."

"No," Hermione agreed. "I just wanted to show them how er - nice it is
in here."

She waved vaguely at the dirty old mirror and the damp floor.

"Ask her if she saw anything," Harry mouthed at Hermione.

"What are you whispering?" said Myrtle, staring at him.

"Nothing," said Harry quickly. "We wanted to ask -"

"I wish people would stop talking behind my back!" said Myrtle, in a
voice choked with tears. "I do have feelings, you know, even if I am
dead -"

"Myrtle, no one wants to upset you," said Hermione. "Harry only -"

"No one wants to upset me! That
 howled Myrtle. 



ve seen anything funny lately," said
Hermione quickly. "Because a cat was attacked right outside your
front door on Halloween."

"Did you see anyone near here that night?" said Harry.

"I wasn
 said Myrtle dramatically. 
m - that I



 said Ron helpfully.

* IL 56*

Myrtle gave a tragic sob, rose up in the air, turned over, and dived
headfirst into the toilet, splashing water all over them and vanishing
from sight, although from the direction of her muffled sobs, she had
come to rest somewhere in the U-bend.

Harry and Ron stood with their mouths open, but Hermione shrugged
wearily and said, 
s go."

Harry had barely closed the door on Myrtle
RON!
That's a girls' bathroom!
What were you -?
Just having a look around,
Clues, you know -
Get - away - from - there -
Don't you care what
this looks like? Coming back here while everyone's at dinner -
Why shouldn't we be here?
Listen, we never laid a finger on that cat!
That's what I told Ginny,
but she still seems to
think you're going to be expelled, I've never seen her so upset, crying
her eyes out, you might think of her, all the first years are thoroughly
overexcited by this business -
You don't care about Ginny,
You're just worried I'm going to mess up your chances of
being Head Boy -
Five points from Gryffindor!
And I hope it teaches you a lesson! No more detective work, or
I'll write to Mum!
s ears.

Harry, Ron, and Hermione chose seats as far as possible from Percy
in the common room that night. Ron was still in a very bad temper and
kept blotting his Charms homework. When he reached absently for his
wand to remove the smudges, it ignited the parchment. Fuming almost
as much as his homework, Ron slammed The Standard Book of Spells,
Grade 2 shut. To Harry
Who can it be, though?
Who'd want to
frighten all the Squibs and Muggle-borns out of Hogwarts?
Let's think,
Who do we know who
thinks Muggle-borns are scum?
If you're talking about Malfoy -
Of course I am!
You heard him - `You'll be next,
Mudbloods!'- come on, you've only got to look at his foul rat face to
know it's him -
Malfoy, the Heir of Slytherin?
Look at his family,
The whole lot
of them have been in Slytherin; he's always boasting about it. They
could easily be Slytherin's descendants. His father's definitely evil
enough.
They couldve had the key to the Chamber of Secrets for centuries!
Handing it down, father to son ......


 said Hermione cautiously, 
s possible ......

"But how do we prove it?" said Harry darkly.

"There might be a way," said Hermione slowly, dropping her voice still
further with a quick glance across the room at Percy. "Of course, it
would be difficult. And dangerous, very dangerous. We



t you?" said Ron irritably.

"All right," said Hermione coldly. "What we
s us."

"But that
 Harry said as Ron laughed.


s not," said Hermione. "All we



s that?" said Ron and Harry together.

"Snape mentioned it in class a few weeks ago -"

"D
ve got nothing better to do in Potions than listen to
Snape?" muttered Ron.

"It transforms you into somebody else. Think about it! We could
change into three of the Slytherins. No one would know it was us.
Malfoy would probably tell us anything. He



 said Ron, frowning.




 said Hermione, waving her hand

*159*

impatiently. 
s
bound to be in the Restricted Section of the library."
There was only one way to get out a book from the Restricted
Section: You needed a signed note of permission from a teacher.
"Hard to see why we
 said Ron, 
t going to try and make one of the potions."
"I think," said Hermione, "that if we made it sound as though
we were just interested in the theory, we might stand a chance ......
"Oh, come on, no teacher
 said Ron.

d have to be really thick . . . ."

C H-H A P T V It		T 1
t had a very good reason for keeping Lockhart in a good
mood, he would have refused to do it.

"Nice loud howl, Harry - exactly - and then, if you


The bell rang and Lockhart got to his feet.




The class began to leave. Harry returned to the back of the room,
where Ron and Hermione were waiting.


 Harry muttered.


s gone," said Hermione nervously. "All right . . . "

She approached Lockhart
Er - Professor Lockhart?
I wanted to - to
get this book out of the library. Just for background reading.
But the thing
is, it's in the Restricted Section of the library, so I need a teacher to
sign for it - I'm sure it would help me understand what you say in
Gadding with Ghouls about slow-acting venoms


 said Lockhart, taking the note from
Hermione and smiling widely at her. 


-162


 said Hermione eagerly. 



m sure no one will mind me giving the best student of the year
a little extra help," said Lockhart warmly, and he pulled out an
enormous peacock quill. "Yes, nice, isn
 he said, misreading the
revolted look on Ron's face. 


He scrawled an enormous loopy signature on the note and handed it
back to Hermione.


 said Lockhart, while Hermione folded the note with
fumbling fingers and slipped it into her bag. 
s the first
Quidditch match of the season, I believe? Gryffindor against Slytherin,
is it not? I hear you
t hesitate to ask. Always happy to pass
on my expertise to less able players ......

Harry made an indistinct noise in his throat and then hurried off after
Ron and Hermione.

"I don
 he said as the three of them examined the signature
on the note. 
t even look at the book we wanted."

"That
s a brainless git," said Ron. "But who cares, we



 said Hermione shrilly as they half ran
toward the library.




They dropped their voices as they entered the muffled stillness of the
library. Madam Pince, the librarian, was a thin, irritable woman who
looked like an underfed vulture.

*163*


 she repeated suspiciously, trying to take the
note from Hermione; but Hermione wouldn't let go.


 she said breathlessly.


 said Ron, wrenching it from her grasp and thrusting it
at Madam Pince. 
ll get you another autograph. Lockhart


Madam Pince held the note up to the light, as though determined to
detect a forgery, but it passed the test. She stalked away between the
lofty shelves and returned several minutes later carrying a large and
moldy-looking book. Hermione put it carefully into her bag and they
left, trying not to walk too quickly or look too guilty.

Five minutes later, they were barricaded in Moaning Myrtle's out-of-
order bathroom once again. Hermione had overridden Ron's objections
by pointing out that it was the last place anyone in their right minds
would go, so they were guaranteed some privacy. Moaning Myrtle
was crying noisily in her stall, but they were ignoring her, and she
them.

Hermione opened Moste Potente Potions carefully, and the three of
them bent over the damp-spotted pages. It was clear from a glance
why it belonged in the Restricted Section. Some of the potions had
effects almost too gruesome to think about, and there were some very
unpleasant illustrations, which included a man who seemed to have
been turned inside out and a witch sprouting several extra pairs of
arms out of her head.


 said Hermione excitedly as she found the page headed The
Polyjuice Potion. It was decorated with drawings of people halfway
through transforming into other people. Harry sin

*164*

cerely hoped the artist had imagined the looks of intense pain on their
faces.


ve ever seen," said Hermione as
they scanned the recipe. "Lacewing flies, leeches, fluxweed, and
knotgrass," she murmured, running her finger down the list of
ingredients. "Well, they
re in the student store-
cupboard, we can help ourselves .... Oooh, look, powdered horn of a
bicorn - don
re going to get that - shredded skin of a
boomslang -. that



 said Ron sharply. 
you mean, a bit of whoever
we
m drinking nothing with Crabbe


Hermione continued as though she hadn't heard him.


t have to worry about that yet, though, because we add those
bits last ......

Ron turned, speechless, to Harry, who had another worry.

"D
re going to have to steal, Hermione?
Shredded skin of a boomslang, that

cupboard. What
s private stores? I
don
Well, if you two are going to chicken out, fine,
I don't want to break rules, you know. I think threatening
Muggle-borns is far worse than brewing up a difficult potion. But if
you don't want to find out if it's Malfoy, I'll go straight to Madam Pince
now and hand the book back in ='

*165


d be persuading us to
break rules," said Ron. "All right, we



 said Harry as Hermione,
looking happier, opened the book again.


d say
it



 said Ron. 
 But Hermione's eyes narrowed
dangerously again, and he added swiftly, 
s the best plan we


However, while Hermione was checking that the coast was clear for
them to leave the bathroom, Ron muttered to Harry, 
ll be a lot less
hassle if you can just knock Malfoy off his broom tomorrow.

Harry woke early on Saturday morning and lay for a while thinking
about the coming Quidditch match. He was nervous, mainly at the
thought of what Wood would say if Gryffindor lost, but also at the
idea of facing a team mounted on the fastest racing brooms gold
could buy. He had never wanted to beat Slytherin so badly. After
half an hour of lying there with his insides churning, he got up,
dressed, and went down to breakfast early, where he found the rest
of the Gryffindor team huddled at the long, empty table, all looking
uptight and not speaking much.

As eleven o
s usual pre-match pep talk.

"Slytherin has better brooms than us," he began. "No point denying it.
But we
ve trained harder than
they have, we
 (
 muttered
George Weasley. 
t been properly dry since August") "- and
we


Chest heaving with emotion, Wood turned to Harry.


ll be down to you, Harry, to show them that a Seeker has to have
something more than a rich father. Get to that Snitch before Malfoy or
die trying, Harry, because we
ve got to."

"So no pressure, Harry" said Fred, winking at him.

As they walked out onto the pitch, a roar of noise greeted them; mainly
cheers, because Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff were anxious to see
Slytherin beaten, but the Slytherins in the crowd made their boos and
hisses heard, too. Madam Hooch, the Quidditch teacher, asked Flint
and Wood to shake hands, which they did, giving each other
threatening stares and gripping rather harder than was necessary.

"On my whistle," said Madam Hooch. "Three ... two ... one. . .

With a roar from the crowd to speed them upward, the fourteen
players rose toward the leaden sky. Harry flew higher than any of
them, squinting around for the Snitch.

*167*

"All right there, Scarhead?" yelled Malfoy, shooting underneath him as
though to show off the speed of his broom.

Harry had no time to reply. At that very moment, a heavy black
Bludger came pelting toward him; he avoided it so narrowly that he
felt it ruffle his hair as it passed.

"Close one, Harry!" said George, streaking past him with his club in his
hand, ready to knock the Bludger back toward a Slytherin. Harry saw
George give the Bludger a powerful whack in the direction of Adrian
Pucey, but the Bludger changed direction in midair and shot straight
for Harry again.

Harry dropped quickly to avoid it, and George managed to hit it hard
toward Malfoy. Once again, the Bludger swerved like a boomerang
and shot at Harry
Gotcha!
t have a clue what was going on
in the rest of the game until he heard Lee Jordan, who was
commentating, say, "Slytherin lead, sixty points to zero =
 superior brooms were clearly doing their jobs, and
meanwhile the mad Bludger was doing all it could to knock Harry
out of the air. Fred and George were now flying so close to him on
either side that Harry could see nothing at all except their flailing arms
and had no chance to look for the Snitch, let alone catch it.

"Someone
 Fred grunted,
swinging his bat with all his might at it as it launched a new attack on
Harry.


 said George, trying to signal to Wood and stop
the Bludger breaking Harry's nose at the same time.

Wood had obviously got the message. Madam Hooch's whistle rang
out and Harry, Fred, and George dived for the ground, still trying to
avoid the mad Bludger.


s going on?" said Wood as the Gryffindor team huddled
together, while Slytherins in the crowd jeered. "We



 said George angrily. 
s fixed it -
it won
t gone for anyone else all game.
The Slytherins must have done something to it."

"But the Bludgers have been locked in Madam Hooch

said Wood, anxiously.

Madam Hooch was walking toward them. Over her shoulder, Harry
could see the Slytherin team jeering and pointing in his direction.

169


 said Harry as she came nearer and nearer, 
m going to catch the
Snitch is if it flies up my sleeve. Go back to the rest of the team and
let me deal with the rogue one."

"Don
 said Fred. 
ll take your head off."

Wood was looking from Harry to the Weasleys.

(I Oliver, this is insane," said Alicia Spinner angrily. "You can
s ask for an inquiry -))

"If we stop now, we
 said Harry. 
re not losing to Slytherin just because of a crazy Bludger! Come
on, Oliver, tell them to leave me alone!"

"This is all your fault," George said angrily to Wood. " `Get the Snitch
or die trying,


Madam Hooch had joined them.


 she asked Wood.

Wood looked at the determined look on Harry's face.


 he said. 


The rain was falling more heavily now. On Madam Hooch's whistle,
Harry kicked hard into the air and heard the telltale whoosh of the
Bludger behind him. Higher and higher Harry climbed; he looped and
swooped, spiraled, zigzagged, and rolled. Slightly dizzy, he nevertheless
kept his eyes wide open, rain was speckling his glasses and ran up his
nostrils as he hung upside down, avoiding another fierce dive from the
Bludger. He could hear laughter from the crowd; he knew he must
look very stupid, but the rogue Bludger was heavy and couldn't change
direction as quickly as Harry could; he began a kind of roller-coaster
ride around the

*170*

edges of the stadium, squinting through the silver sheets of rain to the
Gryffindor goal posts, where Adrian Pucey was trying to get past
Wood

A whistling in Harry's ear told him the Bludger had just missed him
again; he turned right over and sped in the opposite direction.


 yelled Malfoy as Harry was forced to
do a stupid kind of twirl in midair to dodge the Bludger, and he fled, the
Bludger trailing a few feet behind him; and then, glaring back at
Malfoy in hatred, he saw it - the Golden Snitch. It was hovering inches
above Malfoy's left ear - and Malfoy, busy laughing at Harry, hadn't
seen it.

For an agonizing moment, Harry hung in midair, not daring to speed
toward Malfoy in case he looked up and saw the Snitch.

WHAM.

He had stayed still a second too long. The Bludger had hit him at last,
smashed into his elbow, and Harry felt his arm break. Dimly, dazed by
the searing pain in his arm, he slid sideways on his rain-drenched
broom, one knee still crooked over it, his right arm dangling useless at
his side - the Bludger came pelting back for a second attack, this time
W-ming at his face - Harry swerved out of the way, one idea firmly
lodged in his numb brain: get to Malfoy.

Through a haze of rain and pain he dived for the shimmering, sneering
face below him and saw its eyes widen with fear: Malfoy thought
Harry was attacking him.


 he gasped, careening out of Harry's way.

Harry took his remaining hand off his broom and made a wild snatch;
he felt his fingers close on the cold Snitch but was now only

*171*

gripping the broom with his legs, and there was a yell from the crowd
below as he headed straight for the ground, trying hard not to pass
out.

With a splattering thud he hit the mud and rolled off his broom. His
arm was hanging at a very strange angle; riddled with pain, he heard,
as though from a distance, a good deal of whistling and shouting. He
focused on the Snitch clutched in his good hand.


 he said vaguely. 
ve won."

And he fainted.

He came around, rain falling on his face, still lying on the field, with
someone leaning over him. He saw a glitter of teeth.

"Oh, no, not you," he moaned.

"Doesn
s saying," said Lockhart loudly to the anxious
crowd of Gryffindors pressing around them. "Not to worry, Harry.
I



said Harry. 
ll keep it like this, thanks ......

He tried to sit up, but the pain was terrible. He heard a familiar
clicking noise nearby.

"I don
 he said loudly.


 said Lockhart soothingly. 
s a simple charm I



t I just go to the hospital wing?" said Harry through
clenched teeth.

"He should really, Professor," said a muddy Wood, who couldn
Great capture,
Harry, really spectacular, your best yet, Id say -
Stand back,
No - don't -
s arm.

A strange and unpleasant sensation started at Harry
t dare look at what was happening. He had
shut his eyes, his face turned away from his arm, but his worst fears
were realized as the people above him gasped and Colin Creevey
began clicking away madly. His arm didn
Ah,
Yes. Well, that can sometimes happen. But the
point is, the bones are no longer broken. That's the thing to bear in
mind. So, Harry, just toddle up to the hospital wing - ah, Mr. Weasley,
Miss Granger, would you escort him? - and Madam Pomfrey will be
able to - er - tidy you up a bit.
t mended Harry
t at all pleased.

"You should have come straight to me!" she raged, holding up

*173*

the sad, limp remainder of what, half an hour before, had been a
working arm. "I can mend bones in a second - but growing them back -
"

"You will be able to, won
 said Harry desperately.


ll be able to, certainly, but it will be painful," said Madam Pomfrey
grimly, throwing Harry a pair of pajamas. "You
s bed while
Ron helped him into his pajamas. It took a while to stuff the rubbery,
boneless arm into a sleeve.

"How can you stick up for Lockhart now, Hermione, eh?" Ron called
through the curtain as he pulled Harry
If Harry had wanted deboning he would have asked.
Anyone can make a mistake,
And it doesn't hurt
anymore, does it, Harry?
No,
But it doesn't do anything else
either.
You're in for a rough night,
Regrowing bones is a nasty business.

So was taking the Skele-Gro. It burned Harry's mouth and throat as it
went down, making him cough and splutter. Still tut-tutting about
dangerous sports and inept teachers, Madam Pomfrey re

*114*

treated, leaving Ron and Hermione to help Harry gulp down some
water.

 said Ron, a grin breaking across his face.

s face ... he looked ready
to kill ......
"I want to know how he fixed that Bludger," said Hermione
darkly.
"We can add that to the list of questions we
ve taken the Polyjuice Potion," said Harry, sinking back onto
his pillows. "I hope it tastes better than this stuff .....

"If it
ve got to be joking," said
Ron.
The door of the hospital wing burst open at that moment. Filthy
and soaking wet, the rest of the Gryffindor team had arrived to see
Harry.
"Unbelievable flying, Harry," said George. "I
t seem too happy."
They had brought cakes, sweets, and bottles of pumpkin juice;
they gathered around Harry
This boy needs rest, he's got thirty-three
bones to regrow! Out! OUT!
Get off!
Dobby!
s goggling tennis ball eyes were peering at Harry
through the darkness. A single tear was running down his long,
pointed nose.

"Harry Potter came back to school," he whispered miserably.
"Dobby warned and warned Harry Potter. Ah sir, why didn
t Harry Potter go back home when he
missed the train?"

Harry heaved himself up on his pillows and pushed Dobby
What're you doing here?
And how did you know I missed
the train?
s lip trembled and Harry was seized by a sudden suspicion.

"It was you!" he said slowly. "You stopped the barrier from letting us
through!"

"Indeed yes, sir," said Dobby, nodding his head vigorously, ears
flapping. "Dobby hid and watched for Harry Potter and sealed the
gateway and Dobby had to iron his hands afterward" - he showed
Harry ten long, bandaged fingers - "but Dobby didn


He was rocking backward and forward, shaking his ugly head.


so shocked when he heard Harry Potter was back at
Hogwarts, he let his master
You nearly got Ron and me expelled,
You'd better
get lost before my bones come back, Dobby, or I might strangle you.
Dobby is used to death threats, sir. Dobby gets them five times a day
at home.
Why d'you wear that thing, Dobby?
This, sir?
'Tis a mark of the
house-elf's enslavement, sir. Dobby can only be freed if his masters
present him with clothes, sir. The family is careful not to pass Dobby
even a sock, sir, for then he would be free to leave their house
forever.
Harry Potter must
go home! Dobby thought his Bludger would be enough to make -
Your Bludger?
What d'you
mean, your Bludger? You made that Bludger try and kill me?
Not kill you, sir, never kill you!
Dobby wants
to save Harry Potter's life! Better sent home, grievously injured, than
remain here sir! Dobby only wanted Harry Potter hurt enough to be
sent home!
Oh, is that all?
I don't suppose you're going to
tell me why you wanted me sent home in pieces?
Ah, if Harry Potter only knew!
If he knew what he means

*177*

to us, to the lowly, the enslaved, we dregs of the magical world!
Dobby remembers how it was when He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named
was at the height of his powers, sir! We house-elfs were treated like
vermin, sir! Of course, Dobby is still treated like that, sir,
But mostly, sir, life has improved
for my kind since you triumphed over He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named.
Harry Potter survived, and the Dark Lord's power was broken, and it
was a new dawn, sir, and Harry Potter shone like a beacon of hope
for those of us who thought the Dark days would never end, sit... And
now, at Hogwarts, terrible things are to happen, are perhaps happening
already, and Dobby cannot let Harry Potter stay here now that history
is to repeat itself, now that the Chamber of Secrets is open once more

Dobby froze, horrorstruck, then grabbed Harry's water jug from his
bedside table and cracked it over his own head, toppling out of sight. A
second later, he crawled back onto the bed, cross-eyed, muttering,




 Harry whispered. 
s been opened before? Tell me, Dobby!"

He seized the elf
s hand inched toward the
water jug. "But I



 stammered the elf,
his eyes huge in the dark. 
tis too
dangerous -"

"Who is it, Dobby?" Harry said, keeping a firm hold on Dobby
Who's
opened it? Who opened it last time?
Dobby can't, sir, Dobby can't, Dobby mustn't tell!
Go home, Harry Potter, go home!
I'm not going anywhere!
One of my best
friends is Muggle-born; she'll be first in line if the Chamber really has
been opened -
Harry Potter risks his own life for his friends!
So noble! So valiant! But he must save
himself, he must, Harry Potter must not -
Dobby must go!
s fist was suddenly clenched on thin air. He slumped back
into bed, his eyes on the dark doorway to the hospital wing as the
footsteps drew nearer.

Next moment, Dumbledore was backing into the dormitory, wearing a
long woolly dressing gown and a nightcap. He was carrying one end
of what looked like a statue. Professor McGonagall appeared a
second later, carrying its feet. Together, they heaved it onto a bed.

"Get Madam Pomfrey," whispered Dumbledore, and Professor
McGonagall hurried past the end of Harry
What happened?
Another attack,
Minerva found him on the stairs.


 said Professor
McGonagall. 


Harry's stomach gave a horrible lurch. Slowly and carefully, he raised
himself a few inches so he could look at the statue on the bed. A ray
of moonlight lay across its staring face.

It was Colin Creevey. His eyes were wide and his hands were stuck
up in front of him, holding his camera.


 whispered Madam Pomfrey.


 said Professor McGonagall. 
t been on the way downstairs for hot chocolate - who knows
what might have -"

The three of them stared down at Colin. Then Dumbledore leaned
forward and wrenched the camera out of Colin
You don't think he managed to get a picture of his attacker?
t answer. He opened the back of the camera.

"Good gracious!" said Madam Pomfrey.

A jet of steam had hissed out of the camera. Harry, three beds away,
caught the acrid smell of burnt plastic.

"Melted," said Madam Pomfrey wonderingly. "All melted..."

"What does this mean, Albus?" Professor McGonagall asked
urgently.

"It means," said Dumbledore, "that the Chamber of Secrets is indeed
open again."

Madam Pomfrey clapped a hand to her mouth. Professor McGonagall
stared at Dumbledore.

*180*

"But, Albus ... surely ... who?"
"The question is not who," said Dumbledore, his eyes on Colin.
"The question is, how . . . ."
And from what Harry could see of Professor McGonagall
t understand this any better than he did.

C H-H A P T t R	ELEVEN

THE D-KJEL]ING C-L-IJIB

Harry woke up on Sunday morning to find the dormitory blazing with
winter sunlight and his arm reboned but very stiff. He sat up quickly
and looked over at Colin
All in order,
When you've finished eating, you may leave.
t there. Harry left to look for them, wondering where
they could have got to and feeling slightly hurt that they weren
d met.

"Oh, hello, Harry," he said. "Excellent flying yesterday, really
excellent. Gryffindor has just taken the lead for the House Cup you
earned fifty points!"

"You haven
 said Harry.


t," said Percy, his smile fading. "I hope Ron
 toilet .....

Harry forced a laugh, watched Percy walk out of sight, and then
headed straight for Moaning Myrtle
t see why
Ron and Hermione would be in there again, but after making sure
that neither Filch nor any prefects were around, he opened the door
and heard their voices coming from a locked stall.

"It
 he said, closing the door behind him. There was a clunk, a
splash, and a gasp from within the stall and he saw Hermione's eye
peering through the keyhole.

`Harry!
You gave us such a fright - come in how's your
arm?
Fine,
s.

"We
ve come to meet you, but we decided to get started on the
Polyjuice Potion," Ron explained as Harry, with difficulty, locked the
stall again. "We


Harry started to tell them about Colin, but Hermione interrupted.


s why we decided we



 snarled
Ron. 
you know what I think? He was in such a foul temper after
the Quidditch match, he took it out on Colin."

"There
 said Harry, watching Hermione tearing
bundles of knotgrass and throwing them into the potion. 


Ron and Hermione looked up, amazed. Harry told them everything
Dobby had told him - or hadn't told him. Hermione and Ron listened
with their mouths open.


 Hermione said.


 said Ron in a triumphant voice. 
ve
opened the Chamber when he was at school here and now he
s obvious. Wish Dobby
s in there, though. I want to know how come nobody



 said Hermione, prodding leeches to
the bottom of the cauldron. 
ve read about Chameleon Ghouls -"

"You read too much, Hermione," said Ron, pouring dead lacewings on
top of the leeches. He crumpled up the empty lacewing bag and looked
at Harry.

"So Dobby stopped us from getting on the train and broke your

	arm 	He shook his head. "You know what, Harry? If he doesn
s going to kill you."

*184*

The news that Colin Creevey had been attacked and was now lying
as though dead in the hospital wing had spread through the entire
school by Monday morning. The air was suddenly thick with rumor
and suspicion. The first years were now moving around the castle in
tight-knit groups, as though scared they would be attacked if they
ventured forth alone.

Ginny Weasley, who sat next to Colin Creevey in Charms, was
distraught, but Harry felt that Fred and George were going the
wrong way about cheering her up. They were taking turns covering
themselves with fur or boils and jumping out at her from behind
statues. They only stopped when Percy, apoplectic with rage, told
them he was going to write to Mrs. Weasley and tell her Ginny was
having nightmares.

Meanwhile, hidden from the teachers, a roaring trade in talismans,
amulets, and other protective devices was sweeping the school.
Neville Longbottom bought a large, evil-smelling green onion, a
pointed purple crystal, and a rotting newt tail before the other
Gryffindor boys pointed out that he was in no danger; he was a pure-
blood, and therefore unlikely to be attacked.

"They went for Filch first," Neville said, his round face fearful. "And
everyone knows I


In the second week of December Professor McGonagall came
around as usual, collecting names of those who would be staying at
school for Christmas. Harry, Ron, and Hermione signed her list; they
had heard that Malfoy was staying, which struck them as very
suspicious. The holidays would be the perfect time to use the
Polyjuice Potion and try to worm a confession out of him.

Unfortunately, the potion was only half finished. They still

* 3-85*

needed the bicorn horn and the boomslang skin, and the only place
they were going to get them was from Snape's private stores. Harry
privately felt he'd rather face Slytherin's legendary monster than let
Snape catch him robbing his office.


 said Hermione briskly as Thursday afternoon's
double Potions lesson loomed nearer, 
s office and take what we need."

Harry and Ron looked at her nervously.

"I think Id better do the actual stealing," Hermione continued in a
matter-of-fact tone. "You two will be expelled if you get into any more
trouble, and I
s Potions
class was about as safe as poking a sleeping dragon in the eye.

Potions lessons took place in one of the large dungeons. Thursday
afternoon
 work while the
Slytherins sniggered appreciatively. Draco Malfoy, who was Snape
Unfair.
s Swelling Solution was far too runny, but he had his mind on
more important things. He was waiting for Hermione
s eye and nodded.

Harry ducked swiftly down behind his cauldron, pulled one of Fred
s cauldron.

Goyle
s
office.

"Silence! SILENCE!" Snape roared. "Anyone who has been splashed,
come here for a Deflating Draft - when I find out who did this -"

Harry tried not to laugh as he watched Malfoy hurry forward, his head
drooping with the weight of a nose like a small melon. As half the
class lumbered up to Snape
s cauldron and scooped out
the twisted black remains of the firework. There was a sudden hush.

*187*

"If I ever find out who threw this," Snape whispered, "I shall make
sure that person is expelled."

Harry arranged his face into what he hoped was a puzzled
expression. Snape was looking right at him, and the bell that rang ten
minutes later could not have been more welcome.

"He knew it was me," Harry told Ron and Hermione as they hurried
back to Moaning Myrtle
I could tell.
It'll be ready in two weeks,
Snape can't prove it was you,
What can he do?
Knowing Snape, something foul,
They're starting a Dueling Club!
First meeting
tonight! I wouldn't mind dueling lessons; they might come in handy
one of these days ......


s monster can duel?" said Ron, but he,
too, read the sign with interest.

"Could be useful," he said to Harry and Hermione as they went into
dinner. "Shall we go?"

Harry and Hermione were all for it, so at eight o
I wonder who'll be teaching us?
Someone told me Flitwick was a dueling
champion when he was young - maybe it'll be him.
As long as it's not -
 "Gather round,
gather round! Can everyone see me? Can you all hear me?
Excellent!

"Now, Professor Dumbledore has granted me permission to start
this little dueling club, to train you all in case you ever need to defend
yourselves as I myself have done on countless occasions - for full
details, see my published works.

"Let me introduce my assistant, Professor Snape," said Lockhart,
flashing a wide smile. "He tells me he knows a tiny little bit about
dueling himself and has sportingly agreed to help me with a short
demonstration before we begin. Now, I don
ll still have your Potions master when I



t it be good if they finished each other off?" Ron muttered in
Harry
s upper lip was curling. Harry wondered why Lockhart

*189*

was still smiling; if Snape had been looking at him like that he
As you see, we are holding our wands in the accepted combative
position,
On the count of three, we
will cast our first spells. Neither of us will be aiming to kill, of course.
I wouldn't bet on that,
One - two - three -
Expelliarmus!
Do you think he's all right?
Who cares?
Well, there you have it!
That was a Disarming Charm - as you see, I've lost my wand - ah,
thank you, Miss Brown - yes, an excellent idea to show them that,
Professor Snape, but if you don't mind my saying

*190*

so, it was very obvious what you were about to do. If I had wanted to
stop you it would have been only too easy - however, I felt it would be
instructive to let them see . . .
Enough demonstrating! I'm going to come amongst you now
and put you all into pairs. Professor Snape, if you'd like to help me -
Time to split up the dream team, I think,
Weasley, you
can partner Finnigan. Potter -
I don't think so,
Mr. Malfoy, come over
here. Let's see what you make of the famous Potter. And you, Miss
Granger - you can partner Miss Bulstrode.
d seen in Holidays with Hags. She was
large and square and her heavy jaw jutted aggressively. Hermione
gave her a weak smile that she did not return.

"Face your partners!" called Lockhart, back on the platform. "And
bow!"

Harry and Malfoy barely inclined their heads, not taking their eyes off
each other.

"Wands at the ready!" shouted Lockhart. "When I count to three, cast
your charms to disarm your opponents - only to disarm them - we don


*191*

Harry swung his wand high, but Malfoy had already started on 
:
His spell hit Harry so hard he felt as though he'd been hit over the
head with a saucepan. He stumbled, but everything still seemed to be
working, and wasting no more time, Harry pointed his wand straight at
Malfoy and shouted, 


A jet of silver light hit Malfoy in the stomach and he doubled up,
wheezing.


 Lockhart shouted in alarm over the heads of the
battling crowd, as Malfoy sank to his knees; Harry had hit him with a
Tickling Charm, and he could barely move for laughing. Harry hung
back, with a vague feeling it would be unsporting to bewitch Malfoy
while he was on the floor, but this was a mistake; gasping for breath,
Malfoy pointed his wand at Harry's knees, choked, 

and the next second Harry's legs began to jerk around out of his
control in a kind of quickstep.


 screamed Lockhart, but Snape took charge.


 he shouted; Harry's feet stopped dancing, Malfoy
stopped laughing, and they were able to look up.

A haze of greenish smoke was hovering over the scene. Both Neville
and Justin were lying on the floor, panting; Ron was holding up an
ashen-faced Seamus, apologizing for whatever his broken wand had
done; but Hermione and Millicent Bulstrode were still moving;
Millicent had Hermione in a headlock and Hermione was whimpering
in pain; both their wands lay forgotten on the floor. Harry leapt
forward and pulled Millicent off. It was difficult: She was a lot bigger
than he was.


 said Lockhart, skittering through the crowd, looking at
the aftermath of the duels. 
ll stop bleeding in a
second, Boot

"I think Id better teach you how to block unfriendly spells," said
Lockhart, standing flustered in the midst of the hall. He glanced at
Snape, whose black eyes glinted, and looked quickly away. "Let



 said Snape, gliding over like a large
and malevolent bat. 
ll be sending what
 Neville's round, pink face went pinker.

 said Snape with a twisted smile.


 said Lockhart, gesturing Harry and Malfoy into the
middle of the hall as the crowd backed away to give them room.


 said Lockhart. 


He raised his own wand, attempted a complicated sort of wiggling
action, and dropped it. Snape smirked as Lockhart quickly picked it up,
saying, 


Snape moved closer to Malfoy, bent down, and whispered something
in his ear. Malfoy smirked, too. Harry looked up nervously at Lockhart
and said, 



 muttered Malfoy, so that Lockhart couldn't hear him.


 said Harry out of the corner of his mouth.

Lockhart cuffed Harry merrily on the shoulder. 





But Lockhart wasn't listening.


 he shouted.

Malfoy raised his wand quickly and bellowed, 


The end of his wand exploded. Harry watched, aghast, as a long black
snake shot out of it, fell heavily onto the floor between them, and
raised itself, ready to strike. There were screams as the crowd
backed swiftly away, clearing the floor.


t move, Potter," said Snape lazily, clearly enjoying the sight of
Harry standing motionless, eye to eye with the angry snake. "I
Allow me!
t sure what made him do it. He wasn
Leave him alone!
t attack anyone now, though how he knew it, he couldn
What do you think you're playing at?
t like it. He was also dimly aware of an ominous muttering all
around the walls. Then he felt a tugging on the back of his robes.

"Come on," said Rods voice in his ear. "Move - come on -"

Ron steered him out of the hall, Hermione hurrying alongside them. As
they went through the doors, the people on either side drew away as
though they were frightened of catching something. Harry didn
You're a Parselmouth. Why didn't you tell us?
I'm a what?
 said Ron. 



 said Harry. 
s only the second time I



 Ron repeated
faintly.

*195*


 said Harry. 



t," said Ron. "It



s bad?" said Harry, starting to feel quite angry. "What
t told that snake not to attack Justin -"

"Oh, that



you mean? You were there - you heard me -"

"I heard you speaking Parseltongue," said Ron. "Snake language. You
could have been saying anything - no wonder Justin panicked, you
sounded like you were egging the snake on or something - it was
creepy, you know -"

Harry gaped at him.

"I spoke a different language? But - I didn


Ron shook his head. Both he and Hermione were looking as though
someone had died. Harry couldn't see what was so terrible.


you want to tell me what
s head?" he said. "What does it matter how I did it as
long as Justin doesn



 said Hermione, speaking at last in a hushed voice,

s why the symbol of Slytherin House is a serpent."

Harry
Exactly,
And now the whole school's going to think you're
his great-great-great-great-grandson or something -
But I'm not,
t quite explain.

"You
 said Hermione. 


* IL96 *

Harry lay awake for hours that night. Through a gap in the curtains
around his four-poster he watched snow starting to drift past the
tower window and wondered . . .

Could he be a descendant of Salazar Slithering? He didn't know
anything about his father's family, after all. The Dursleys had always
forbidden questions about his wizarding relatives.

Quietly, Harry tried to say something in Parseltongue. The words
wouldn't come. It seemed he had to be face-to-face with a snake to
do it.

	But I'm in Gryffindor, Harry thought. The Sorting Hat wouldn't
have put me in here if I had Slytherin blood...

Ah, said a nasty little voice in his brain, but the Sorting Hat wanted to
put you in Slytherin, don't you remember?

Harry turned over. He'd see Justin the next day in Herbology and he'd
explain that he'd been calling the snake off, not egging it on, which (he
thought angrily, pummeling his pillow) any fool should have realized.

By next morning, however, the snow that had begun in the night had
turned into a blizzard so thick that the last Herbology lesson of the
term was canceled: Professor Sprout wanted to fit socks and scarves
on the Mandrakes, a tricky operation she would entrust to no one else,
now that it was so important for the Mandrakes to grow quickly and
revive Mrs. Norris and Colin Creevey.

Harry fretted about this next to the fire in the Gryffindor common
room, while Ron and Hermione used their time off to play a game of
wizard chess.


s sake, Harry," said Hermione, exasperated, as one

*197*

of Ron
Go and find Justin if it's so important to you.
t seem to be
working. Between the long lines of high bookshelves, Harry could see
that their heads were close together and they were having what looked
like an absorbing conversation. He couldn
So anyway,
I told Justin to hide up in our
dormitory. I mean to say, if Potter's marked him down as his next
victim, it's best if he keeps a low profile for a while. Of course, Justin's
been waiting for something like this to happen ever since he let slip to
Potter he was Muggle-born. Justin actually told him he'd been down
for Eton. That's not the kind of thing you bandy about with Slytherin's
heir on the loose, is it?
You definitely think it is Potter, then, Ernie?
Hannah,
he's a Parselmouth. Everyone
knows that's the mark of a Dark wizard. Have you ever heard of a
decent one who could talk to snakes? They called Slytherin himself
Serpent-tongue.
Remember what was written on the wall? Enemies of the Heir,
Beware. Potter had some sort of run-in with Filch. Next thing we
know, Flich's cat's attacked. That first year, Creevey, was annoying
Potter at the Quidditch match, taking pictures of him while he was
lying in the mud. Next thing we know - Creevey's been attacked.
He always seems so nice, though,
and,
well, he's the one who made You-Know-Who disappear. He can't be
all bad, can he?
s words.

"No one knows how he survived that attack by You-Know-Who. I
mean to say, he was only a baby when it happened. He should have
been blasted into smithereens. Only a really powerful Dark wizard
could have survived a curse like that." He dropped his voice until it
was barely more than a whisper, and said, "That
t want another
Dark Lord competing with him. I wonder what other powers Potter


Harry couldn't take anymore. Clearing his throat loudly, he stepped out
from behind the bookshelves. If he hadn't been feeling so angry, he
would have found the sight that greeted him funny: Every one of the
Hufflepuffs looked as though they had been Petrified by the sight of
him, and the color was draining out of Ernie's face.

*199*


 said Harry. 
m looking for Justin Finch-Fletchley."

The Hufepuffs
What do you want with him?
I wanted to tell him what really happened with that snake at the
Dueling Club,
We
were all there. We saw what happened.
Then you noticed that after I spoke to it, the snake backed off?
All I saw,
was you speaking Parseltongue and chasing the snake
toward Justin. 
I didn't chase it at him!
It
didn't even touch him!
It was a very near miss,
And in case you're getting
ideas,
I might tell you that you can trace my
family back through nine generations of witches and warlocks and
my blood's as pure as anyone's, so -
t care what sort of blood you
 said Harry fiercely.




ve heard you hate those Muggles you live with," said Ernie swiftly.

"It
 said
Harry. 


He turned on his heel and stormed out of the library, earning himself
a reproving glare from Madam Pince, who was polishing the gilded
cover of a large spellbook.

*200*

Harry blundered up the corridor, barely noticing where he was going,
he was in such a fury. The result was that he walked into something
very large and solid, which knocked him backward onto the floor.


 Harry said, looking up.

Hagrid's face was entirely hidden by a woolly, snow-covered
balaclava, but it couldn't possibly be anyone else, as he filled most of
the corridor in his moleskin overcoat. A dead rooster was hanging
from one of his massive, gloved hands.


, Harry?" he said, pulling up the balaclava so he could
speak. "Why aren



 said Harry, getting up. 
re you doing in here?"

Hagrid held up the limp rooster.

"Second one killed this term," he explained. "It
 I need the Headmaster


He peered more closely at Harry from under his thick, snowflecked
eyebrows.


re all righ
 bothered -"

Harry couldn
It's nothing,
Id better get going, Hagrid, it's Transfiguration
next and I've got to pick up my books.
Justin's been waiting for something like this to happen ever since he
let slip to Potter he was Muggle-born .....

* 2 0 IL *

Harry stamped up the stairs and turned along another corridor,
which was particularly dark; the torches had been extinguished by a
strong, icy draft that was blowing through a loose windowpane. He
was halfway down the passage when he tripped headlong over
something lying on the floor.

He turned to squint at what he'd fallen over and felt as though his
stomach had dissolved.

Justin Finch-Fletchley was lying on the floor, rigid and cold, a look of
shock frozen on his face, his eyes staring blankly at the ceiling. And
that wasn't all. Next to him was another figure, the strangest sight
Harry had ever seen.

It was Nearly Headless Nick, no longer pearly-white and
transparent, but black and smoky, floating immobile and horizontal,
six inches off the floor. His head was half off and his face wore an
expression of shock identical to Justin's.

Harry got to his feet, his breathing fast and shallow, his heart doing a
kind of drumroll against his ribs. He looked wildly up and down the
deserted corridor and saw a line of spiders scuttling as fast as they
could away from the bodies. The only sounds were the muffled
voices of teachers from the classes on either side.

He could run, and no one would ever know he had been there. But
he couldn't just leave them lying here .... He had to get help ....
Would anyone believe he hadn't had anything to do with this?

As he stood there, panicking, a door right next to him opened with a
bang. Peeves the Poltergeist came shooting out.


s potty wee Potter!" cackled Peeves, knocking Harry
What's Potter up to? Why's
Potter lurking -
ATTACK! ATTACK! ANOTHER ATTACK! NO MORTAL
OR GHOST IS SAFE! RUN FOR YOUR LIVES!
ATTAAAACK!
Caught in the act!
That will do, Macmillan!
Oh, Potter, you rotter, oh, what have you done,
You're killing off' students, you think it's good fun -
That's enough Peeves!
This way, Potter,
Professor,
I swear I didn't -
This is out of my hands, Potter,
Lemon drop!
t fail to be amazed. Behind the wall was a spiral staircase that
was moving smoothly upward, like an escalator. As he and Professor
McGonagall stepped onto it, Harry heard the wall thud closed behind
them. They rose upward in circles, higher and higher, until at last,
slightly dizzy, Harry saw a gleaming oak door ahead, with a brass
knocker in the shape of a griffin.

He knew now where he was being taken. This must be where
Dumbledore lived.

*204*

C I3 A P T V RR	T W E I V

THE POLYJUICE POTION

hey stepped off the stone staircase at the top, and Professor
McGonagall rapped on the door. It opened silently and they entered.
Professor McGonagall told Harry to wait and left him there, alone.

Harry looked around. One thing was certain: of all the teachers
s was by far
the most interesting. If he hadn
s hat - the Sorting Hat.

*205*



Harry hesitated. He cast a wary eye around the sleeping witches and
wizards on the walls. Surely it couldn
d put it on.
Harry stared at the black inside of the hat, waiting. Then a small voice
said in his ear, "Bee in your bonnet, Harry Potter?"

"Er, yes," Harry muttered. "Er - sorry to bother you - I wanted to ask -
"

"You
 said
the hat smartly. 
 - Harry's heart leapt - 


Harry's stomach plummeted. He grabbed the point of the hat and
pulled it off. It hung limply in his hand, grubby and faded. Harry
pushed it back onto its shelf, feeling sick.


re wrong," he said aloud to the still and silent hat. It didn
t alone after all. Standing on a golden perch behind the door
was a decrepit-looking bird that resembled a half-plucked turkey.
Harry stared at it and the bird looked balefully back, making its
gagging noise again. Harry thought it looked very ill. Its eyes were dull
and, even as Harry watched, a couple more feathers fell out of its tail.

Harry was just thinking that all he needed was for Dumbledore
t see one; the bird, meanwhile, had become a fireball; it gave
one loud shriek and next second there was nothing but a smouldering
pile of ash on the floor.

The office door opened. Dumbledore came in, looking very somber.

"Professor," Harry gasped. "Your bird - I couldn


To Harry's astonishment, Dumbledore smiled.


 he said. 
s been looking dreadful for days; I


He chuckled at the stunned look on Harry's face.




Harry looked down in time to see a tiny, wrinkled, newborn bird poke
its head out of the ashes. It was quite as ugly as the old one.


s a shame you had to see him on a Burning Day," said Dumbledore,
seating himself behind his desk. "He


In the shock of Fawkes catching fire, Harry had forgotten what he
was there for, but it all came back to him as Dumbledore settled

himself in the high chair behind the desk and fixed Harry with his
penetrating, light-blue stare.

Before Dumbledore could speak another word, however, the door of
the office flew open with an almighty bang and Hagrid burst in, a wild
look in his eyes, his balaclava perched on top of his shaggy black head
and the dead rooster still swinging from his hand.


 Harry, Professor Dumbledore!" said Hagrid urgently. "I was
talkin


Dumbledore tried to say something, but Hagrid went ranting on,
waving the rooster around in his agitation, sending feathers
everywhere.


t
ll swear it in front o
 Magic if I
have to -"

"Hagrid, I -"

"- yeh


"Hagrid!" said Dumbledore loudly. "I do not think that Harry
attacked those people."

"Oh," said Hagrid, the rooster falling limply at his side. "Right. I


And he stomped out looking embarrassed.


t think it was me, Professor?" Harry repeated hopefully as
Dumbledore brushed rooster feathers off his desk.

"No, Harry, I don
 said Dumbledore, though his face was somber
again. 


Harry waited nervously while Dumbledore considered him, the tips of
his long fingers together.

*208*


d like to tell me,"
he said gently. "Anything at all."

Harry didn
You'll
be next, Mudbloods!
s bathroom. Then he thought of the disembodied
voice he had heard twice and remembered what Ron had said:
"Hearing voices no one else can hear isn
 He thought, too, about what everyone was saying
about him, and his growing dread that he was somehow connected
with Salazar Slytherin ....


 said Harry. 
t anything, Professor . . . ."

The double attack on Justin and Nearly Headless Nick turned what
had hitherto been nervousness into real panic. Curiously, it was Nearly
Headless Nick
At this rate, we'll be the only ones left,
Us, Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle. What a jolly holiday it's
going to be.
Make way for the Heir of Slytherin, seriously evil wizard coming
through ......

Percy was deeply disapproving of this behavior.


 he said coldly.


 said Fred. 
s in a hurry."

"Yeah, he
 said George, chortling.

Ginny didn't find it amusing either.


t," she wailed every time Fred asked Harry loudly who he
was planning to attack next, or when George pretended to ward Harry
off with a large clove of garlic when they met.

Harry didn
s heir was quite ludicrous.
But their antics seemed to be aggravating Draco Malfoy, who looked
increasingly sour each time he saw them at it.

"It
s bursting to say it
 said Ron knowingly.

re
getting all the credit for his dirty work."

"Not for long," said Hermione in a satisfied tone. "The Polyjuice
Potion
ll be getting the truth out of him any day
now."

At last the term ended, and a silence deep as the snow on the grounds
descended on the castle. Harry found it peaceful, rather than gloomy,
and enjoyed the fact that he, Hermione, and the Weasleys had the run
of Gryffindor Tower, which meant they could

*210*

play Exploding Snap loudly without bothering anyone, and practice
dueling in private. Fred, George, and Ginny had chosen to stay at
school rather than visit Bill in Egypt with Mr. and Mrs. Weasley.
Percy, who disapproved of what he termed their childish behavior,
didn
Wake up,
Hermione - you're not supposed to be in here -
Merry Christmas to you, too,
I've been up for nearly an hour, adding more lacewings to
the potion. It's ready.
Are you sure?
Positive,
s four-poster. "If we


At that moment, Hedwig swooped into the room, carrying a very
small package in her beak.


 said Harry happily as she landed on his bed. 


211

She nibbled his ear in an affectionate sort of way, which was a far
better present than the one that she had brought him, which turned
out to be from the Dursleys. They had sent Harry a toothpick and a
note telling him to find out whether he'd be able to stay at Hogwarts
for the summer vacation, too.

The rest of Harry's Christmas presents were far more satisfactory.
Hagrid had sent him a large tin of treacle fudge, which Harry decided
to soften by the fire before eating; Ron had given him a book called
Flying with the Cannons, a book of interesting facts about his favorite
Quidditch team, and Hermione had bought him a luxury eagle-feather
quill. Harry opened the last present to find a new, hand-knitted
sweater from Mrs. Weasley and a large plum cake. He read her card
with a fresh surge of guilt, thinking about Mr. Weasley's car (which
hadn't been seen since its crash with the Whomping Willow), and the
bout of rule-breaking he and Ron were planning next.

No one, not even someone dreading taking Polyjuice Potion later,
could fail to enjoy Christmas dinner at Hogwarts.

The Great Hall looked magnificent. Not only were there a dozen
frost-covered Christmas trees and thick streamers of holly and
mistletoe crisscrossing the ceiling, but enchanted snow was falling,
warm and dry, from the ceiling. Dumbledore led them in a few of his
favorite carols, Hagrid booming more and more loudly with every
goblet of eggnog he consumed. Percy, who hadn't noticed that Fred
had bewitched his prefect badge so that it now read 
 kept
asking them all what they were sniggering at. Harry didn't even care
that Draco Malfoy was making loud, snide remarks

* 2:L2 *

about his new sweater from the Slytherin table. With a bit of luck,
Malfoy would be getting his comeuppance in a few hours' time.

Harry and Ron had barely finished their third helpings of Christmas
pudding when Hermione ushered them out of the hall to finalize their
plans for the evening.


re changing into," said
Hermione matter-of-facdy, as though she were sending them to the
supermarket for laundry detergent. "And obviously, it
s and Goyle
re Malfoys best
friends, he
t burst in on us while we
I've got it all worked out,
s
and Ron
I've filled these with a simple Sleeping Draught. All you have to do is
make sure Crabbe and Goyle find them. You know how greedy they
are, they're bound to eat them. Once they're asleep, pull out a few of
their hairs and hide them in a broom closet.
Hermione, I don't think -
That could go seriously wrong -
The potion will be useless without Crabbe's and Goyle's hair,
You do want to investigate Malfoy, don't you?
Oh, all right, all right,
But what about you? Whose hair
are you ripping out?
I've already got mine!
Remember Millicent Bulstrode wrestling with me at the Dueling
Club? She left this on my robes when she was trying to strangle me!
And she's gone home for Christmas - so I'll just have to tell the
Slytherins I've decided to come back.
Have you ever heard of a plan where so many things could go
wrong?
s and Ron
How thick can you get?
s fore

* _2 14 *

head and Ron pulled out several of Crabbe
s bathroom.

They could hardly see for the thick black smoke issuing from the stall
in which Hermione was stirring the cauldron. Pulling their robes up
over their faces, Harry and Ron knocked softly on the door.

"Hermione?"

They heard the scrape of the lock and Hermione emerged, shiny-
faced and looking anxious. Behind her they heard the gloop gloop
of the bubbling, glutinous potion. Three glass tumblers stood ready on
the toilet seat.

"Did you get them?" Hermione asked breathlessly.

Harry showed her Goyle
Good. And I sneaked these spare robes out of the laundry,
You'll need bigger sizes once you're
Crabbe and Goyle.
I'm sure I've done everything right,
It looks like the
book says it should ... once we've drunk it, we'll have exactly an hour
before we change back into ourselves.
Now what?
We separate it into three glasses and add the hairs.
s hair out of
its bottle into the first glass.

*215*

The potion hissed loudly like a boiling kettle and frothed madly. A
second later, it had turned a sick sort of yellow.

"Urgh - essence of Millicent Bulstrode," said Ron, eyeing it with
loathing. "Bet it tastes disgusting."

"Add yours, then," said Hermione.

Harry dropped Goyle
s
into the last one. Both glasses hissed and frothed: Goyle
s a dark, murky brown.

"Hang on," said Harry as Ron and Hermione reached for their glasses.
"We
t fit. And Millicent Bulstrode
Good thinking,
We'll take separate
stalls.
Ready?
Ready,
s and Hermione
One - two - three -
d just swallowed
live snakes - doubled up, he wondered whether he was going to be
sick - then a burning sensation spread rapidly from his stomach to the
very ends of his fingers and toes - next, bringing him gasping to all
fours, came a horrible melting feeling, as the skin all over his body
bubbled like hot wax - and before his eyes, his hands began to grow,
the fingers thickened, the nails broadened,

* 2116 *

the knuckles were bulging like bolts -his shoulders stretched painfully
and a prickling on his forehead told him that hair was creeping down
toward his eyebrows - his robes ripped as his chest expanded like a
barrel bursting its hoops - his feet were agony in shoes four sizes too
small

As suddenly as it had started, everything stopped. Harry lay facedown
on the stone-cold floor, listening to Myrtle gurgling morosely in the end
toilet. With difficulty, he kicked off his shoes and stood up. So this was
what it felt like, being Goyle. His large hand trembling, he pulled off
his old robes, which were hanging a foot above his ankles, pulled on
the spare ones, and laced up Goyle
t need them - he took
them off and called, "Are you two okay?" Goyle
Yeah,
s door opened. They stared at each other. Except that he looked
pale and shocked, Ron was indistinguishable from Crabbe, from the
pudding-bowl haircut to the long, gorilla arms.

"This is unbelievable," said Ron, approaching the mirror and prodding
Crabbe
Unbelievable. 
We'd better get going,
s thick wrist. "We


Ron, who had been gazing at Harry, said, 
t know how
bizarre it is to see Goyle thinking." He banged on Hermione
C'mon, we need to go -
I - I don't think I'm going to come after all. You go on without me.


s ugly, no one
s you -"

"No - really - I don
ll come. You two hurry up, you re
wasting time

Harry looked at Ron, bewildered.

"That looks more like Goyle," said Ron. "That



 said Harry through the door.


m fine - go on -"

Harry looked at his watch. Five of their precious sixty minutes had
already passed.

"We
 he said.

Harry and Ron opened the door of the bathroom carefully, checked
that the coast was clear, and set off.


t swing your arms like that," Harry muttered to Ron.

"Eh?"

"Crabbe holds them sort of stiff . . . ."

"How



s better . . . ."

They went down the marble staircase. All they needed now was

*218*

a Slytherin that they could follow to the Slytherin common room, but
there was nobody around.

"Any ideas?" muttered Harry.

"The Slytherins always come up to breakfast from over there," said
Ron, nodding at the entrance to the dungeons. The words had barely
left his mouth when a girl with long, curly hair emerged from the
entrance.

"Excuse me," said Ron, hurrying up to her. "We



 said the girl stiffly. 
m a
Ravenclaw."

She walked away, looking suspiciously back at them.

Harry and Ron hurried down the stone steps into the darkness, their
footsteps echoing particularly loudly as Crabbe
s huge
feet hit the floor, feeling that this wasn
Ha!
There's one of them now!
t a Slytherin, it was Percy.

"What
 said Ron in surprise.

Percy looked affronted.


 he said stiffly, 
s Crabbe, isn


2 19


 said Ron.


 said Percy sternly. 
s not safe to
go wandering around dark corridors these days."

"You are," Ron pointed out.

"I," said Percy, drawing himself up, "am a prefect. Nothing


A voice suddenly echoed behind Harry and Ron. Draco Malfoy was
strolling toward them, and for the first time in his life, Harry was
pleased to see him.


 he drawled, looking at them. 
ve been looking for you; I
want to show you something really funny."

Malfoy glanced witheringly at Percy.

"And what
 he sneered.

Percy looked outraged.


 he said. 
t like your attitude!"

Malfoy sneered and motioned for Harry and Ron to follow him. Harry
almost said something apologetic to Percy but caught himself just in
time. He and Ron hurried after Malfoy, who said as they turned into
the next passage, "That Peter Weasley -"

"Percy," Ron corrected him automatically.

"Whatever," said Malfoy. "I
s up to. He thinks he
s heir single-handed."

He gave a short, derisive laugh. Harry and Ron exchanged excited
looks.

Malfoy paused by a stretch of bare, damp stone wall.

* 220 *

"What
 he said to Harry.


 said Harry.


 said Malfoy, not listening, and a stone door
concealed in the wall slid open. Malfoy marched through it, and
Harry and Ron followed him.

The Slytherin common room was a long, low underground room
with rough stone walls and ceiling from which round, greenish lamps
were hanging on chains. A fire was crackling under an elaborately
carved mantelpiece ahead of them, and several Slytherins were
silhouetted around it in high-backed chairs.


 said Malfoy to Harry and Ron, motioning them to a pair
of empty chairs set back from the fire. 
ll go and get it my father


Wondering what Malfoy was going to show them, Harry and Ron
sat down, doing their best to look at home.

Malfoy came back a minute later, holding what looked like a
newspaper clipping. He thrust it under Ron's nose.


ll give you a laugh," he said.

Harry saw Ron
s resignation.

"Weasley has brought the Ministry into disrepute," Mr. Malfoy told our
reporter. "He is clearly unfit to draw up our laws and his ridiculous
Muggle Protection Act should be scrapped immediately."

Mr. Weasley was unavailable for comment, although his wife told
reporters to clear off or she
Well?
Don't you think it's funny?
Ha, ha,
Arthur Weasley loves Muggles so much he should snap his wand in
half and go and join them,
You'd never know
the Weasleys were pure-bloods, the way they behave.
s - or rather, Crabbe
What's up with you, Crabbe?
Stomachache,
Well, go up to the hospital wing and give all those Mudbloods a kick
from me,
You know, I'm surprised the Daily
Prophet hasn't reported all these attacks yet,
I suppose Dumbledore's trying to hush it all up. He'll be sacked if it
doesn't stop soon. Father's always said old Dumbledore's the worst
thing that's ever happened to this place. He loves Muggle-borns. A
decent headmaster would never've let slime like that Creevey in.
`Potter, can I have your
picture, Potter? Can I have your autograph? Can I lick your shoes,
please, Potter?


He dropped his hands and looked at Harry and Ron.

"What


Far too late, Harry and Ron forced themselves to laugh, but Malfoy
seemed satisfied; perhaps Crabbe and Goyle were always slow on
the uptake.


 friend," said Malfoy slowly. "He
t go around
with that jumped up Granger Mudblood. And people think he
s heir!"

Harry and Ron waited with bated breath: Malfoy was surely seconds
away from telling them it was him - but then

"I wish I knew who it is," said Malfoy petulantly. "I could help them."

Ron
t notice, and Harry, thinking fast,
said, "You must have some idea who
You know I haven't, Goyle, how many times do I have to tell you?
And Father won't tell me anything about the last
time the Chamber was opened either. Of course, it was fifty years
ago, so it was before his time, but he knows all about it, and he says
that it was all kept quiet and it'll look suspicious if I know too much
about it. But I know one thing - last time the Chamber of Secrets
was opened, a Mudblood died. So I bet it's a matter of time before
one of them's killed this time .... I hope it's Granger,
s gigantic fists. Feeling that it would be a
bit of a giveaway if Ron punched Malfoy, Harry shot him a warning
look and said, "D



 said Malfoy. 
re
probably still in Azkaban."

"Azkaban?" said Harry, puzzled.

"Azkaban - the wizard prison, Goyle," said Malfoy, looking at him in
disbelief "Honestly, if you were any slower, you


He shifted restlessly in his chair and said, 
s got a lot on his plate at the moment. You
know the Ministry of Magic raided our manor last week?"

Harry tried to force Goyle
Yeah. . .
Luckily, they didn't find much. Father's got
some very valuable Dark Arts stuff. But luckily, we've got our own
secret chamber under the drawing-room floor

-
Ho!
Medicine for my stomach,
t noticed anything. Harry

224

could feel his feet slipping around in Goyle
d locked Crabbe and Goyle. Leaving their shoes
outside the closet door, they sprinted in their socks up the marble
staircase toward Moaning Myrtle
Well, it wasn't a complete waste of time,
I know we still haven't found out who's
doing the attacks, but I'm going to write to Dad tomorrow and tell him
to check under the Malfoys' drawing room.
s
stall.

"Hermione, come out, we



 Hermione squeaked.

Harry and Ron looked at each other.


s the matter?" said Ron. "You must be back to normal by now,
we are

But Moaning Myrtle glided suddenly through the stall door. Harry had
never seen her looking so happy.

"Ooooooh, wait till you see," she said. "It


They heard the lock slide back and Hermione emerged, sobbing, her
robes pulled up over her head.


s up?" said Ron uncertainly. "Have you still got Millicent


Hermione let her robes fall and Ron backed into the sink.

Her face was covered in black fur. Her eyes had turned yellow and
there were long, pointed ears poking through her hair.


 she howled. 
t supposed to be used for
animal transformations!"

"Uh-oh," said Ron.

"You
 said Myrtle happily.


s okay, Hermione," said Harry quickly. "We
Wait
till everyone finds out you've got a tail!
s bed, to spare her the shame of being seen with a furry
face.

Harry and Ron went to visit her every evening. When the new term
started, they brought her each day
If Id sprouted whiskers, Id take a break from work,
s bedside table one evening.

"Don
ve got to keep up," said Hermione briskly. Her
spirits were greatly improved by the fact that all the hair had

* "21 *



gone from her face and her eyes were turning slowly back to brown.
"I don
ve got any new leads?" she added in a whisper,
so that Madam Pomfrey couldn
Nothing,
I was so sure it was Malfoy,
What's that?
s pillow.

"Just a get well card," said Hermione hastily, trying to poke it out of
sight, but Ron was too quick for her. He pulled it out, flicked it open,
and read aloud:

"To Miss Granger, wishing you a speedy recovery, from your concerned
teacher, Professor Gilderoy Lockhart, Order of Merlin, Third Class,
Honorary Member of the Dark Force Defense League, and five-time winner
of Witch Weekly


Ron looked up at Hermione, disgusted.




But Hermione was spared answering by Madam Pomfrey sweeping
over with her evening dose of medicine.


ve ever met, or what?" Ron
said to Harry as they left the infirmary and started up the stairs
toward Gryffindor Tower. Snape had given them so much
homework, Harry thought he was likely to be in the sixth year before
he finished it. Ron was just saying he wished he had asked Hermione
how many rat tails you were supposed to add to a HairRaising
Potion when an angry outburst from the floor above reached their
ears.

"That
 Harry muttered as they hurried up the stairs and
paused, out of sight, listening hard.

* 228*


t think someone else
 said Ron tensely.

They stood still, their heads inclined toward Flich's voice, which
sounded quite hysterical.

`= even more work for me! Mopping all night, like I haven't got enough to
do! No, this is the final straw, I'm going to Dumbledore -
s bathroom. Now that Filch had
stopped shouting, they could hear Myrtle
Now what's up with her?
Let's go and see,
What's up, Myrtle?
Who's that?
Come to throw something
else at me?
Why would I throw
something at you?
Don't ask me,
Here I am,
minding my own business, and someone thinks it's funny to throw a
book at me ......


t hurt you if someone throws something at you," said
Harry, reasonably. "I mean, it
t
it?"

He had said the wrong thing. Myrtle puffed herself up and shrieked,
"Let
t feel it! Ten points
if you can get it through her stomach! Fifty points if it goes through
her head! Well, ha, ha, ha! What a lovely game, I don



 asked Harry.


t know... I was just sitting in the U-bend, thinking about
death, and it fell right through the top of my head," said Myrtle,
glaring at them. "It
What?
Are you crazy?
It could be dangerous.
Dangerous?
Come off it, how could it be
dangerous?
You'd be surprised,
Some of the books the Ministry's confiscated Dad's told
me - there was one that burned your eyes out. And

*2%0*

everyone who read Sonnets of a Sorcerer spoke in limericks for the rest
of their lives. And some old witch in Bath had a book that you could
never stop reading! You just had to wander around with your nose in it,
trying to do everything one-handed. And -
All right, I've got the point,
Well, we won't find out unless we look at it,
T M. Riddle
Hang on,
s shoulder. "I know that name .... T. M. Riddle got an
award for special services to the school fifty years ago."

"How on earth d
 said Harry in amazement.


 said Ron resentfully. 
d wiped slime off a name for an hour, you


Harry peeled the wet pages apart. They were completely blank.
There wasn't the faintest trace of writing on any of them, not even
Auntie Mabel's birthday, or dentist, half-past three.


 said Harry, disappointed.


 said Ron curiously.

Harry turned to the back cover of the book and saw the printed name
of a variety store on Vauxhall Road, London.

*231 *


ve been Muggle-born," said Harry thoughtfufly. "To have
bought a diary from Vauxhall Road ......

"Well, it
 said Ron. He dropped his voice. 
s nose."

Harry, however, pocketed it.

Hermione left the hospital wing, de-whiskered, tail-less, and furfree, at
the beginning of February. On her first evening back in Gryffindor
Tower, Harry showed her T. M. Riddle
Oooh, it might have hidden powers,
If it has, it's hiding them very well,
Maybe it's shy. I don't
know why you don't chuck it, Harry.
I wish I knew why someone did try to chuck it,
I
wouldn't mind knowing how Riddle got an award for special services
to Hogwarts either.
Could've been anything,
Maybe he got thirty O.WL.s or
saved a teacher from the giant squid. Maybe he murdered Myrtle; that
would've done everyone a favor .....

But Harry could tell from the arrested look on Hermione's face that
she was thinking what he was thinking.


 said Ron, looking from one to the other.


t it?"
he said. "That



 said Ron slowly.


 said Hermione, tapping it excitedly.

*232*

a so?

.


 snapped Hermione. 
s behind the attacks this time wouldn



s a brilliant theory, Hermione," said Ron, "with just one tiny little
flaw. There


But Hermione was pulling her wand out of her bag.


 she whispered.

She tapped the diary three times and said, 


Nothing happened. Undaunted, Hermione shoved her hand back into
her bag and pulled out what appeared to be a bright red eraser.


s a Revealer, I got it in Diagon Alley," she said.

She rubbed hard on January first. Nothing happened.

"I
s nothing to find in there," said Ron. "Riddle just
got a diary for Christmas and couldn


Harry couldn't explain, even to himself, why he didn't just throw
Riddle's diary away. The fact was that even though he knew the diary
was blank, he kept absentmindedly picking it up and turning the pages,
as though it were a story he wanted to finish. And while Harry was
sure he had never heard the name T. M. Riddle before, it still seemed
to mean something to him, almost as though

* 233 *

Riddle was a friend he'd had when he was very small, and had
halfforgotten. But this was absurd. He'd never had friends before
Hogwarts, Dudley had made sure of that.

Nevertheless, Harry was determined to find out more about Riddle, so
next day at break, he headed for the trophy room to examine Riddle's
special award, accompanied by an interested Hermione and a
thoroughly unconvinced Ron, who told them he'd seen enough of the
trophy room to last him a lifetime.

Riddle's burnished gold shield was tucked away in a corner cabinet. It
didn't carry details of why it had been given to him (
d be even bigger and Id still be polishing it," said Ron). However,
they did find Riddle
He sounds like Percy,
Prefect, Head Boy ... probably top of every class -
You say that like it's a bad thing,
The moment their acne clears up, they'll be ready for repotting again,
And after that, it
won't be long until we're cutting them up and stewing them. You'll
have Mrs. Norris back in no time.
t take this cheerful view. He was
still convinced that Harry was the guilty one, that he had "given
himself away" at the Dueling Club. Peeves wasn
Oh, Potter, you
rotter . . .
I don't think there'll be any more trouble, Minerva,
I think the Chamber has been locked
for good this time. The culprit must have known it was only a matter
of time before I caught him. Rather sensible to stop now, before I
came down hard on him.


t say any more just now, but I
think I know just the thing . . . ."

He tapped his nose again and strode off.

Lockhart
t had much sleep because of a late-
running Quidditch practice the night before, and he hurried down to
the Great Hall, slightly late. He thought, for a moment, that he
What's going on?
 table, apparently too disgusted to speak.
Lockhart, wearing lurid pink robes to match the decorations, was
waving for silence. The teachers on either side of him were looking
stony-faced. From where he sat, Harry could see a muscle going in
Professor McGonagall
Happy Valentine's Day!
And may I thank the
forty-six people who have so far sent me cards! Yes, I have taken the
liberty of arranging this little surprise for you all - and it doesn't end
here!
My friendly, card-carrying cupids!
They will be
roving around the school today delivering your valentines! And the fun
doesn't stop here! I'm sure my colleagues will want to enter into the
spirit of the occasion! Why not ask Professor Snape to show you how
to whip up a Love Potion! And while you're at it, Professor Flitwick
knows more about Entrancing Enchantments than any wizard I've
ever met, the sly old dog!
Please, Hermione, tell me you weren't one of the forty-six, 51 said Ron
as they left the Great Hall for their first lesson. Hermione suddenly
became very interested in searching her bag for her schedule and
didn't answer.

All day long, the dwarfs kept barging into their classes to deliver
valentines, to the annoyance of the teachers, and late that afternoon as
the Gryffindors were walking upstairs for Charms, one of the dwarfs
caught up with Harry.


Arty Potter!" shouted a particularly grim-looking dwarf,
elbowing people out of the way to get to Harry.

Hot all over at the thought of being given a valentine in front of a line
of first years, which happened to include Ginny Weasley, Harry tried
to escape. The dwarf, however, cut his way through the crowd by
kicking people
d gone two paces.

"I
Arry Potter in person," he
said, twanging his harp in a threatening sort of way.

"Not here," Harry hissed, trying to escape.

"Stay still!" grunted the dwarf, grabbing hold of Harry
Let me go!
What's going on here?
What's all this commotion?
Right,
s ankles. "Here is your singing
valentine:

His eyes are as green as a fresh pickled toad,

His hair is as dark as a blackboard.
I wish he was mine, he
Off you go, off you go, the bell rang five minutes ago, off to class,
now,
And you,
Malfoy-
d got Riddle
Give that back,
Wonder what Potter's written in this?
t noticed the year on the cover and thought he had
Harry
Hand it over, Malfoy,
When I've had a look,
As a school prefect -
Expelliarmus!
Harry!
No magic in the corridors. I'll have to
report this, you know!
t care, he was one-up on Malfoy, and that was worth
five points from Gryffindor any day. Malfoy was looking furious, and
as Ginny passed him to enter her classroom, he yelled spitefully after
her, "I don


Ginny covered her face with her hands and ran into class. Snarling,
Ron pulled out his wand, too, but Harry pulled him away. Ron didn't
need to spend the whole of Charms belching slugs.

It wasn't until they had reached Professor Flitwick's class that Harry
noticed something rather odd about Riddle's diary. All his other
books were drenched in scarlet ink. The diary, however, was as
clean as it had been before the ink bottle had smashed all over it. He
tried to point this out to Ron, but Ron was having trouble with his
wand again; large purple bubbles were blossoming out of the end,
and he wasn't much interested in anything else.

Harry went to bed before anyone else in his dormitory that night. This
was partly because he didn't think he could stand Fred and George
singing, 
 one more time,
and partly because he wanted to examine Riddle's diary again, and
knew that Ron thought he was wasting his time.

Harry sat on his four-poster and flicked through the blank pages, not
one of which had a trace of scarlet ink on it. Then he pulled a new
bottle out of his bedside cabinet, dipped his quill into it, and dropped a
blot onto the first page of the diary.

The ink shone brightly on the paper for a second and then, as though it
was being sucked into the page, vanished. Excited, Harry loaded up
his quill a second time and wrote, 


The words shone momentarily on the page and they, too, sank without
trace. Then, at last, something happened.

Oozing back out of the page, in his very own ink, came words Harry
had never written.




These words, too, faded away, but not before Harry had started to
scribble back.




He waited eagerly for Riddle's reply.





 Harry scrawled, blotting the page in his
excitement.

*240*

`I mean that this diary holds memories of terrible things. Things that were
covered up. Things that happened at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and
Wizardry. 
That's where I am now,
I'm at Hogwarts, and
horrible stuff's been happening. Do you know anything about the
Chamber of Secrets?
s reply came quickly, his writing
becoming untidier, as though he was hurrying to tell all he knew.

"Of course I know about the Chamber of Secrets. In my day, they told us it
was a legend, that it did not exist. But this was a lie. In my fifth year, the
Chamber was opened and the monster attacked several students, finally
killing one. I caught the person whod opened the Chamber and he was
expelled. But the Headmaster, Professor Dippet, ashamed that such a thing
had happened at Hogwarts, forbade me to tell the truth. A story was given
out that thegirl had died in a freak accident. They gave me a nice, shiny,
engraved trophy for my trouble and warned me to keep my mouth shut. But I
knew it could happen again. The monster lived on, and the one who had the
power to release it was not imprisoned. "

Harry nearly upset his ink bottle in his hurry to write back.

"It
s behind them. Who was it last time?"

"I can show you, if you like, "came Riddle
You don't have

to take my word for it. I can take you inside my memory of the night
when I caught him. 
s memory? He
glanced nervously at the door to the dormitory, which was

*241*

growing dark. When he looked back at the diary, he saw fresh words
forming.

"Let me show you. "

Harry paused for a fraction of a second and then wrote two letters.

(40K.55

The pages of the diary began to blow as though caught in a high wind,
stopping halfway through the month of June. Mouth hanging open,
Harry saw that the little square for June thirteenth seemed to have
turned into a miniscule television screen. His hands trembling slightly,
he raised the book to press his eye against the little window, and
before he knew what was happening, he was tilting forward; the
window was widening, he felt his body leave his bed, and he was
pitched headfirst through the opening in the page, into a whirl of color
and shadow.

He felt his feet hit solid ground, and stood, shaking, as the blurred
shapes around him came suddenly into focus.

He knew immediately where he was. This circular room with the
sleeping portraits was Dumbledore
t Dumbledore
who was sitting behind the desk. A wizened, fraillooking wizard, bald
except for a few wisps of white hair, was reading a letter by
candlelight. Harry had never seen this man before.

"I
 he said shakily. 
t mean to butt in -"

But the wizard didn
Er - I'll just go, shall
I?
t seem even to have heard him.
Thinking that the wizard might be deaf, Harry raised his voice.

*242*

"Sorry I disturbed you. I
 he half-shouted.

The wizard folded up the letter with a sigh, stood up, walked past
Harry without glancing at him, and went to draw the curtains at his
window.

The sky outside the window was ruby-red; it seemed to be sunset.
The wizard went back to the desk, sat down, and twiddled his thumbs,
watching the door.

Harry looked around the office. No Fawkes the phoenix - no whirring
silver contraptions. This was Hogwarts as Riddle had known it,
meaning that this unknown wizard was Headmaster, not Dumbledore,
and he, Harry, was little more than a phantom, completely invisible to
the people of fifty years ago.

There was a knock on the office door.


 said the old wizard in a feeble voice.

A boy of about sixteen entered, taking off his pointed hat. A silver
prefect's badge was glinting on his chest. He was much taller than
Harry, but he, too, had jet-black hair.


 said the Headmaster.


 said Riddle. He looked
nervous.


 said Dippet. 
ve just been reading the letter you sent me.

"Oh," said Riddle. He sat down, gripping his hands together very
tightly.

"My dear boy," said Dipper kindly, "I cannot possibly let you stay at
school over the summer. Surely you want to go home for the
holidays?"

"No," said Riddle at once. "Id much rather stay at Hogwarts than go
back to that - to that -"

* 243*

"You live in a Muggle orphanage during the holidays, I believe?" said
Dippet curiously.

"Yes, sir," said Riddle, reddening slightly.

"You are Muggle-born?"

"Half-blood, sir," said Riddle. "Muggle father, witch mother."

"And are both your parents -?"

"My mother died just after I was born, sir. They told me at the
orphanage she lived just long enough to name me - Tom after my
father, Marvolo after my grandfather."

Dipper clucked his tongue sympathetically.

"The thing is, Tom," he sighed, "Special arrangements might have
been made for you, but in the current circumstances . . . ."

"You mean all these attacks, sir?" said Riddle, and Harry
Precisely,
My dear boy, you must see how
foolish it would be of me to allow you to remain at the castle when
term ends. Particularly in light of the recent tragedy ... the death of
that poor little girl .... You will be safer by far at your orphanage. As
a matter of fact, the Ministry of Magic is even now talking about
closing the school. We are no nearer locating the er - source of all
this unpleasantness . . . .
s eyes had widened.

"Sir - if the person was caught - if it all stopped -"

"What do you mean?" said Dippet with a squeak in his voice, sitting
up in his chair. "Riddle, do you mean you know something about
these attacks?"

"No, sir," said Riddle quickly.

But Harry was sure it was the same sort of "no" that he himself had
given Dumbledore.

*244*

Dippet sank back, looking faintly disappointed.

"You may go, Tom ......

Riddle slid off his chair and slouched out of the room. Harry
followed him.

Down the moving spiral staircase they went, emerging next to the
gargoyle in the darkening corridor. Riddle stopped, and so did
Harry, watching him. Harry could tell that Riddle was doing some
serious thinking. He was biting his lip, his forehead furrowed.

Then, as though he had suddenly reached a decision, he hurried off,
Harry gliding noiselessly behind him. They didn
What are you doing, wandering around this late, Tom?
I had to see the headmaster, sir,
Well, hurry off to bed,
Best not to roam the
corridors these days. Not since . . .
s disappointment, Riddle led him not into a hidden
passageway or a secret tunnel but to the very dungeon in which
Harry had Potions with Snape. The torches hadn
t be heard.

For perhaps five minutes they followed the footsteps, until Riddle
stopped suddenly, his head inclined in the direction of new noises.
Harry heard a door creak open, and then someone speaking in a
hoarse whisper.

"C
mon now ... in the box. . ."

There was something familiar about that voice ....

Riddle suddenly jumped around the corner. Harry stepped out behind
him. He could see the dark outline of a huge boy who was crouching
in front of an open door, a very large box next to it.

"Evening, Rubeus," said Riddle sharply.

The boy slammed the door shut and stood up.

"What yer doin


Riddle stepped closer.


s all over," he said. "I
re talking about closing Hogwarts if the attacks don


4 6


 at d'yeh -
I don't think you meant to kill anyone. But monsters don't make
good pets. I suppose you just let it out for exercise and -
It never killed no one!
Come on, Rubeus,
The dead girl's
parents will be here tomorrow. The least Hogwarts can do is make
sure that the thing that killed their daughter is slaughtered ......


t him!" roared the boy, his voice echoing in the dark
passage. "He wouldn



 said Riddle, drawing out his wand.

His spell lit the corridor with a sudden flaming light. The door behind
the large boy flew open with such force it knocked him into the wall
opposite. And out of it came something that made Harry let out a
long, piercing scream unheard by anyone

A vast, low-slung, hairy body and a tangle of black legs; a gleam of
many eyes and a pair of razor-sharp pincers - Riddle raised his
wand again, but he was too late. The thing bowled him over as it
scuttled away, tearing up the corridor and out of sight. Riddle
scrambled to his feet, looking after it; he raised his wand, but the
huge boy leapt on him, seized his wand, and threw him back down,
yelling, 


The scene whirled, the darkness became complete; Harry felt himself
falling and, with a crash, he landed spread-eagled on his four-poster
in the Gryffindor dormitory, Riddle's diary lying open on his stomach.

*24 7*

Before he had had time to regain his breath, the dormitory door
opened and Ron came in.


 he said.

Harry sat up. He was sweating and shaking.


s up?" said Ron, looking at him with concern.

"It was Hagrid, Ron. Hagrid opened the Chamber of Secrets fifty
years ago."

Harry, Ron, and Hermione had always known that Hagrid had an
unfortunate liking for large and monstrous creatures. During their first
year at Hogwarts he had tried to raise a dragon in his little wooden
house, and it would be a long time before they forgot the giant, three-
headed dog he
Fluffy.
d have gone to any lengths for a glimpse of it. He
t found out how to work Riddle
d seen, until he was heartily sick of telling them and sick of the
long, circular conversations that followed.

"Riddle might have got the wrong person," said Hermione. "Maybe it
was some other monster that was attacking people . . . ."

"How many monsters d
 Ron asked
dully.


 said Harry miserably.

ve stopped after Hagrid was kicked out.
Otherwise, Riddle wouldn


Ron tried a different tack.





 said Hermione.


 said Harry. 
t blame him for wanting to stay
here ......

"You met Hagrid down Knockturn Alley, didn



 said Harry quickly.

The three of them fell silent. After a long pause, Hermione voiced the
knottiest question of all in a hesitant voice.





d be a cheerful visit," said Ron. "
'

In the end, they decided that they would not say anything to Hagrid
unless there was another attack, and as more and more days went by
with no whisper from the disembodied voice, they became

hopeful that they would never need to talk to him about why he had
been expelled. It was now nearly four months since Justin and Nearly
Headless Nick had been Petrified, and nearly everybody seemed to
think that the attacker, whoever it was, had retired for good. Peeves
had finally got bored of his 
 song, Ernie
Macmillan asked Harry quite politely to pass a bucket of leaping
toadstools in Herbology one day, and in March several of the
Mandrakes threw a loud and raucous party in greenhouse three. This
made Professor Sprout very happy.


s pots, we
re fully mature," she told Harry. "Then we


The second years were given something new to think about during
their Easter holidays. The time had come to choose their subjects for
the third year, a matter that Hermione, at least, took very seriously.


 she told Harry and Ron as they
pored over lists of new subjects, marking them with checks.


 said Harry.


t," said Ron gloomily. "We keep all our old subjects, or I
ve
ditched Defense Against the Dark Arts."

"But that
 said Hermione, shocked.


 said Ron. 
t learned
anything from him except not to set pixies loose."

Neville Longbottom had been sent letters from all the witches and
wizards in his family, all giving him different advice on what to
choose. Confused and worried, he sat reading the subject lists with

his tongue poking out, asking people whether they thought Arithmancy
sounded more difficult than the study of Ancient Runes. Dean
Thomas, who, like Harry, had grown up with Muggles, ended up
closing his eyes and jabbing his wand at the list, then picking the
subjects it landed on. Hermione took nobody
t get any guidance: Percy
Weasley was eager to share his experience.

"Depends where you want to go, Harry," he said. "It
re thinking of working in close contact with them -
look at my father, he has to deal with Muggle business all the time. My
brother Charlie was always more of an outdoor type, so he went for
Care of Magical Creatures. Play to your strengths, Harry."

But the only thing Harry felt he was really good at was Quidditch. In
the end, he chose the same new subjects as Ron, feeling that if he was
lousy at them, at least he
s next Quidditch match would be against Hufflepuff. Wood
was insisting on team practices every night after dinner, so that Harry
barely had time for anything but Quidditch and homework. However,
the training sessions were getting better, or at least

drier, and the evening before Saturday
s chances for
the Quidditch cup had never been better.

But his cheerful mood didn
Harry - I don't know who did it - I just found -
s trunk had been thrown everywhere. His
cloak lay ripped on the floor. The bedclothes had been pulled off his
four-poster and the drawer had been pulled out of his bedside
cabinet, the contents strewn over the mattress.

Harry walked over to the bed, open-mouthed, treading on a few
loose pages of Travels with Trolls. As he and Neville pulled the
blankets back onto his bed, Ron, Dean, and Seamus came in. Dean
swore loudly.

"What happened, Harry?"

"No idea," said Harry. But Ron was examining Harry
Someone's been looking for something,
Is there anything
missing?
t there.

"Riddle
s gone," he said in an undertone to Ron.

"What?"

Harry jerked his head toward the dormitory door and Ron followed
him out. They hurried down to the Gryffindor common

room, which was half-empty, and joined Hermione, who was sitting
alone, reading a book called Ancient Runes Made Easy.

Hermione looked aghast at the news.

"But - only a Gryffindor could have stolen - nobody else knows our
password -"

"Exactly," said Harry.

They woke the next day to brilliant sunshine and a light, refreshing
breeze.

"Perfect Quidditch conditions!" said Wood enthusiastically at the
Gryffindor table, loading the team
Harry, buck up there, you need a decent breakfast.
s diary was right in front of his eyes.
Hermione had been urging him to report the robbery, but Harry didn
d have to tell a teacher all about the diary, and how
many people knew why Hagrid had been expelled fifty years ago? He
didn
s
growing list. He had just set foot on the marble staircase when he
heard it yet again

"Kill this time ... let me rip ... tear. . ."

He shouted aloud and Ron and Hermione both jumped away from him
in alarm.

"The voice!" said Harry, -looking over his shoulder. "I just heard it
again - didn


Ron shook his head, wide-eyed. Hermione, however, clapped a
hand to her forehead.


ve just understood something! I


And she sprinted away, up the stairs.


 said Harry distractedly, still looking
around, trying to tell where the voice had come from.


 said Ron, shaking his head.


s she got to go to the library?"

"Because that
 said Ron, shrugging. 


Harry stood, irresolute, trying to catch the voice again, but people
were now emerging from the Great Hall behind him, talking loudly,
exiting through the front doors on their way to the Quidditch pitch.


d better get moving," said Ron. "It


Harry raced up to Gryffindor Tower, collected his Nimbus Two
Thousand, and joined the large crowd swarming across the grounds,
but his mind was still in the castle along with the bodiless voice, and
as he pulled on his scarlet robes in the locker. room, his only comfort
was that everyone was now outside to watch the game.

The teams walked onto the field to tumultuous applause. Oliver
Wood took off for a warm-up flight around the goal posts; Madam
Hooch released the balls. The Hufflepuffs, who played in canary
yellow, were standing in a huddle, having a last-minute discussion of
tactics.

Harry was just mounting his broom when Professor McGonagall
came half marching, half running across the pitch, carrying an
enormous purple megaphone.

Harry's heart dropped like a stone.


 Professor McGonagall called
through the megaphone, addressing the packed stadium. There were
boos and shouts. Oliver Wood, looking devastated, landed and ran
toward Professor McGonagall without getting off his broomstick.


 he shouted. 
ve got to play - the cup

Gryffindor -"

Professor McGonagall ignored him and continued to shout through her
megaphone:

"All students are to make their way back to the House common
rooms, where their Heads of Houses will give them further
information. As quickly as you can, please!"

Then she lowered the megaphone and beckoned Harry over to her.

"Potter, I think you
s surprise,
Professor McGonagall didn
Yes, perhaps you'd better come, too, Weasley .....

Some of the students swarming around them were grumbling about
the match being canceled; others looked worried. Harry and Ron
followed Professor McGonagall back into the school and up the
marble staircase. But they weren't taken to anybody's office this time.


 said Professor McGonagall in a
surprisingly gentle voice as they approached the infirmary. 


Harry's insides did a horrible somersault. Professor McGonagall
pushed the door open and he and Ron entered. .

Madam Pomfrey was bending over a fifth-year girl with long, curly
hair. Harry recognized her as the Ravenclaw they'd accidentally
asked for directions to the Slytherin common room. And on the bed
next to her was


 Ron groaned.

Hermione lay utterly still, her eyes open and glassy.


 said Professor McGonagall. 
t suppose either of you can explain this? It was on the floor next
to them ......

She was holding up a small, circular mirror.

Harry and Ron shook their heads, both staring at Hermione.

"I will escort you back to Gryffindor Tower," said Professor
McGonagall heavily. "I need to address the students in any case.

"All students will return to their House common rooms by six o


The Gryffindors packed inside the common room listened to Professor
McGonagall in silence. She rolled up the parchment

from which she had been reading and said in a somewhat choked
voice, 


She climbed somewhat awkwardly out of the portrait hole, and the
Gryffindors began talking immediately.


s two Gryffindors down, not counting a Gryffindor ghost, one
Ravenclaw, and one Hufflepuff, " said the Weasley twins
Haven't any of the teachers noticed
that the Slytherins are all safe? Isn't it obvious all this stuff's coming
from Slytherin? The Heir of Slytherin, the monster of Slytherin - why
don't they just chuck all the Slytherins out?
t
seem keen to make his views heard. He was looking pale and stunned.

"Percy
 George told Harry quietly. 
s a prefect. I don


But Harry was only half-listening. He didn't seem to be able to get rid
of the picture of Hermione, lying on the hospital bed as though carved
out of stone. And if the culprit wasn't caught soon, he was looking at a
lifetime back with the Dursleys. Tom Riddle had turned Hagrid in
because he was faced with the prospect of a Muggle orphanage if the
school closed. Harry now knew exactly how he had felt.


re we going to do?" said Ron quietly in Harry
D'you
think they suspect Hagrid?
We've got to go and talk to him,
I can't believe it's him this time, but if he set the monster
loose last time he'll know how to get inside the Chamber of Secrets,
and that's a start.
But McGonagall said we've got to stay in our tower unless we're
in class -
I think,
it's time to get my dad's
old cloak out again.
t enjoyable. Harry, who had wandered the castle at night sev
eral times before, had never seen it so crowded after sunset. Teach
ers, prefects, and ghosts were marching the corridors in pairs,
staring around for any unusual activity. Their Invisibility Cloak
didn
s house and pulled off the cloak only when they were
right outside his front door.

Seconds after they had knocked, Hagrid flung it open. They found
themselves face-to-face with him aiming a crossbow at them. Fang
the boarhound barked loudly behind him.

"Oh," he said, lowering the weapon and staring at them. "What
 here?"

"What
 said Harry, pointing at the crossbow as they
stepped inside.


 - nothin
 Hagrid muttered. 
ve bin expectin

matter - Sit down - I


He hardly seemed to know what he was doing. He nearly
extinguished the fire, spilling water from the kettle on it, and then
smashed the teapot with a nervous jerk of his massive hand.


 said Harry. 



," said Hagrid, a slight break in his voice.

He kept glancing nervously at the windows. He poured them both
large mugs of boiling water (he had forgotten to add tea bags) and
was just putting a slab of fruitcake on a plate when there was a loud
knock on the door.

Hagrid dropped the fruitcake. Harry and Ron exchanged
panicstricken looks, then threw the Invisibility Cloak back over
themselves and retreated into a corner. Hagrid checked that they
were hidden, seized his crossbow, and flung open his door once
more.

"Good evening, Hagrid."

It was Dumbledore. He entered, looking deadly serious, and was
followed by a second, very odd-looking man.

The stranger had rumpled gray hair and an anxious expression, and
was wearing a strange mixture of clothes: a pinstriped suit, a

scarlet tie, a long black cloak, and pointed purple boots. Under his arm
he carried a lime-green bowler.

"That
s boss!" Ron breathed. "Cornelius Fudge, the Minister of
Magic!"

Harry elbowed Ron hard to make him shut up.

Hagrid had gone pale and sweaty. He dropped into one of his chairs
and looked from Dumbledore to Cornelius Fudge.

"Bad business, Hagrid," said Fudge in rather clipped tones. "Very bad
business. Had to come. Four attacks on Muggle-borns. Things
s got to act."

"I never," said Hagrid, looking imploringly at Dumbledore. "You know I
never, Professor Dumbledore, sir -"

"I want it understood, Cornelius, that Hagrid has my full confidence,"
said Dumbledore, frowning at Fudge.

"Look, Albus," said Fudge, uncomfortably. "Hagrid
s against
him. Ministry



 said Dumbledore. His blue eyes were full of a fire
Harry had never seen before.


 said Fudge, fidgeting with his
bowler. 
m under a lot of pressure. Got to be seen to be doing
something. If it turns out it wasn
ll be back and no more
said. But I
t be doing my duty -"

"Take me?" said Hagrid, who was trembling. "Take me where?"

"For a short stretch only," said Fudge, not meeting Hagrid
Not
a punishment, Hagrid, more a precaution. If someone else is caught,
you'll be let out with a full apology -
Not Azkaban?
s turn for an elbow in the ribs;
he
s hut, swathed in a long black
traveling cloak, smiling a cold and satisfied smile. Fang started to
growl.

"Already here, Fudge," he said approvingly. "Good, good. . ."

"What
 here?" said Hagrid furiously. "Get outta my house!"

"My dear man, please believe me, I have no pleasure at all in being
inside your - er - d
 said Lucius Malfoy, sneering
as he looked around the small cabin. 



 said Dumbledore.
He spoke politely, but the fire was still blazing in his blue eyes.


 said Malfoy lazily, taking out a long roll
of parchment, 
s time for you to step aside.
This is an Order of Suspension - you
m afraid we feel you
t it? At this rate,
there



 said Fudge, looking alarmed,

The appointment - or suspension - of the headmaster is a matter for
the governors, Fudge,
And as
Dumbledore has failed to stop these attacks -
See here, Malfoy, if Dumbledore can't stop them,
I mean to say, who can?
That remains to be seen,
But as
all twelve of us have voted -
An
 blackmail before they
agreed, Malfoy, eh?" he roared.

"Dear, dear, you know, that temper of yours will lead you into trouble
one of these days, Hagrid," said Mr. Malfoy. "I would advise you not
to shout at the Azkaban guards like that. They won



 take Dumbledore!" yelled Hagrid, making Fang the
boarhound cower and whimper in his basket. "Take him away, an
 stand a chance! There
 next!"

"Calm yourself, Hagrid," said Dumbledore sharply. He looked at
Lucius Malfoy.

"If the governors want my removal, Lucius, I shall of course step aside
-"

"But -" stuttered Fudge.

"No!"growled Hagrid.

Dumbledore had not taken his bright blue eyes off Lucius Malfoy
However,
you will find that I will

* 26$*

ummer was creeping over the grounds around the castle; sky and lake
alike turned periwinkle blue and flowers large as cabbages burst into
bloom in the greenhouses. But with no Hagrid visible from the castle
windows, striding the grounds with Fang at his heels, the scene didn't
look right to Harry; no better, in fact, than the inside of the castle,
where things were so horribly wrong.

Harry and Ron had tried to visit Hermione, but visitors were now
barred from the hospital wing.


re taking no more chances," Madam Pomfrey told them severely
through a crack in the infirmary door. "No, I
s every
chance the attacker might come back to finish these people off . . ."

With Dumbledore gone, fear had spread as never before, so that the
sun warming the castle walls outside seemed to stop at the mullioned
windows. There was barely a face to be seen in the school

* 265*



that didn
s final words to himself "I will
only truly have left this school when none here are loyal to me... Help will
always be given at Hogwarts to those who ask for it." But what good
were these words? Who exactly were they supposed to ask for help,
when everyone was just as confused and scared as they were?

Hagrid
t seem to be a single spider left in the castle to
follow. Harry looked everywhere he went, helped (rather reluctantly)
by Ron. They were hampered, of course, by the fact that they weren
t realize what he was so pleased about until the Potions
lesson about two weeks after Dumbledore and Hagrid had left, when,
sitting right behind Malfoy, Harry overheard him gloating to Crabbe
and Goyle.

"I always thought Father might be the one who got rid of
Dumbledore," he said, not troubling to keep his voice down. "I told you
he thinks Dumbledore
s ever

*266*

had. Maybe we
t
want the Chamber of Secrets closed. McGonagall won
s only filling in ......

Snape swept past Harry, making no comment about Hermione
Sir,
Sir, why don't you apply for the
headmaster's job?
Now, now, Malfoy,
t suppress a thin-
lipped smile. "Professor Dumbledore has only been suspended by the
governors. I daresay he



 said Malfoy, smirking. 
d have Father
ll tell Father you


Snape smirked as he swept off around the dungeon, fortunately not
spotting Seamus Finnigan, who was pretending to vomit into his
cauldron.


m quite surprised the Mudbloods haven
 Malfoy went on. 
t Granger -"

The bell rang at that moment, which was lucky; at Malfoy
Let me at him,
I don't care, I don't need my wand, I'm going to kill him with my bare
hands -
Hurry up, I've got to take you all to Herbology,
s heads, and off they marched, with Harry, Ron, and Dean
bringing up the rear, Ron still trying to get loose. It was only

* 261*

safe to let go of him when Snape had seen them out of the castle and
they were making their way across the vegetable patch toward the
greenhouses.

The Herbology class was very subdued; there were now two missing
from their number, Justin and Hermione.

Professor Sprout set them all to work pruning the Abyssinian
Shrivelfigs. Harry went to tip an armful of withered stalks onto the
compost heap and found himself face-to-face with Ernie Macmillan.
Ernie took a deep breath and said, very formally, "I just want to say,
Harry, that I
d never attack
Hermione Granger, and I apologize for all the stuff I said. We


He held out a pudgy hand, and Harry shook it.

Ernie and his friend Hannah came to work at the same Shrivelfig as
Harry and Ron.


 said Ernie, breaking off dead twigs,

t he? D
s heir."

"That
 said Ron, who didn't seem to have forgiven
Ernie as readily as Harry.


s Malfoy, Harry?" Ernie asked.

"No," said Harry, so firmly that Ernie and Hannah stared.

A second later, Harry spotted something.

Several large spiders were scuttling over the ground on the other side
of the glass, moving in an unnaturally straight line as though taking the
shortest route to a prearranged meeting. Harry hit Ron over the hand
with his pruning shears.

"Ouch! What


268

Harry pointed out the spiders, following their progress with his eyes
screwed up against the sun.


 said Ron, trying, and failing, to look pleased. 
t
follow them now -"

Ernie and Hannah were listening curiously.

Harry
Looks like they're heading for the Forbidden Forest . . . .
We'll have to use the Invisibility Cloak again,
We
can take Fang with us. He's used to going into the forest with Hagrid,
he might be some help.
Right,
Er - aren't there - aren't there supposed to be werewolves in the
forest?
s classroom.

Preferring not to answer that question, Harry said, "There are good
things in there, too. The centaurs are all right, and the unicorns ...

Ron had never been into the Forbidden Forest before. Harry had
entered it only once and had hoped never to do so again.

Lockhart bounded into the room and the class stared at him. Every
other teacher in the place was looking grimmer than usual, but
Lockhart appeared nothing short of buoyant.

2 69

"Come now," he cried, beaming around him. "Why all these long
faces?"

People swapped exasperated looks, but nobody answered.

"Don
 said Lockhart, speaking slowly, as though
they were all a bit dim, 



 said Dean Thomas loudly.


t have taken
Hagrid if he hadn

said Lockhart, in the tone of someone explaining that one and one
made two.


 said Ron, even more loudly than Dean.


s arrest than you
do, Mr. Weasley," said Lockhart in a self-satisfied tone.

Ron started to say that he didn
We weren't there, remember?
s disgusting cheeriness, his hints that he had always
thought Hagrid was no good, his confidence that the whole business
was now at an end, irritated Harry so much that he yearned to throw
Gadding with Ghouls right in Lockhart
s do it tonight.

Ron read the message, swallowed hard, and looked sideways at the
empty seat usually filled by Hermione. The sight seemed to stiffen his
resolve, and he nodded.

The Gryffindor common room was always very crowded these days,
because from six o
t empty until past midnight.

Harry went to get the Invisibility Cloak out of his trunk right after
dinner, and spent the evening sitting on it, waiting for the room to
clear. Fred and George challenged Harry and Ron to a few games of
Exploding Snap, and Ginny sat watching them, very subdued in
Hermione
'Course,
we might get to the forest and find there's nothing to follow. Those
spiders might not've been going there at all. I know it looked like they
were moving in that sort of general direction, but. . .
s house, sad and sorry-looking with its blank
windows. When Harry pushed the door open, Fang went mad with joy
at the sight of them. Worried he might wake everyone at the castle
with his deep, booming barks, they hastily fed him treacle fudge from
a tin on the mantelpiece, which glued his teeth together.

Harry left the Invisibility Cloak on Hagrid
C'mon, Fang, we're going for a walk,
Lumos!
Good thinking,
Id light mine, too, but you know - it'd
probably blow up or something ......

Harry tapped Ron on the shoulder, pointing at the grass. Two solitary
spiders were hurrying away from the wandlight into the shade of the
trees.


 Ron sighed as though resigned to the worst, 
m ready. Let


So, with Fang scampering around them, sniffing tree roots and leaves,
they entered the forest. By the glow of Harry's wand, they followed
the steady trickle of spiders moving along the path. They walked
behind them for about twenty minutes, not speaking, listening hard for
noises other than breaking twigs and rustling leaves. Then, when the
trees had become thicker than ever, so that the stars overhead were
no longer visible, and Harry's wand shone alone in the sea of dark,
they saw their spider guides leaving the path.

Harry paused, trying to see where the spiders were going, but
everything outside his little sphere of *light was pitch-black. He had
never been this deep into the forest before. He could vividly
remember Hagrid advising him not to leave the forest path last time
he'd been in here. But Hagrid was miles away now, probably sitting in
a cell in Azkaban, and he had also said to follow the spiders.

* 2-V2 *

Something wet touched Harry's hand and he jumped backward,
crushing Rods foot, but it was only Fang's nose.


you reckon?" Harry said to Ron, whose eyes he could just
make out, reflecting the light from his wand.

"We
 said Ron.

So they followed the darting shadows of the spiders into the trees.
They couldn't move very quickly now; there were tree roots and
stumps in their way, barely visible in the near blackness. Harry could
feel Fang's hot breath on his hand. More than once, they had to stop,
so that Harry could crouch down and find the spiders in the wandlight.

They walked for what seemed like at least half an hour, their robes
snagging on low-slung branches and brambles. After a while, they
noticed that the ground seemed to be sloping downward, though the
trees were as thick as ever.

Then Fang suddenly let loose a great, echoing bark, making both Harry
and Ron jump out of their skins.


 said Ron loudly, looking around into the pitch-dark, and
gripping Harry's elbow very hard.


s something moving over there," Harry breathed. "Listen ...
sounds like something big ......

They listened. Some distance to their right, the something big was
snapping branches as it carved a path through the trees.

"Oh, no," said Ron. "Oh, no, oh, no, oh -"

"Shut up," said Harry frantically. "It



 said Ron in an unnaturally high voice. 
s already heard
Fang!"

The darkness seemed to be pressing on their eyeballs as they

* 273*

stood, terrified, waiting. There was a strange rumbling noise and then
silence.

"What d
s doing?" said Harry.

"Probably getting ready to pounce," said Ron.

They waited, shivering, hardly daring to move.

"D
s gone?" Harry whispered.

"Dunno -"

Then, to their right, came a sudden blaze of light, so bright in the
darkness that both of them flung up their hands to shield their eyes.
Fang yelped and tried to run, but got lodged in a tangle of thorns and
yelped even louder.

"Harry!" Ron shouted, his voice breaking with relief "Harry, it








Harry blundered after Ron toward the light, stumbling and tripping,
and a moment later they had emerged into a clearing.

Mr. Weasley's car was standing, empty, in the middle of a circle of
thick trees under a roof of dense branches, its headlights ablaze. As
Ron walked, open-mouthed, toward it, it moved slowly toward him,
exactly like a large, turquoise dog greeting its owner.


s been here all the time!" said Ron delightedly, walking around the
car. "Look at it. The forest


The sides of the car were scratched and smeared with mud.
Apparently it had taken to trundling around the forest on its own.
Fang didn't seem at all keen on it; he kept close to Harry, who could
feel him quivering. His breathing slowing down again, Harry stuffed
his wand back into his robes.

*214*


 said Ron, leaning against
the car and patting it. 


Harry squinted around on the floodlit ground for signs of more spiders,
but they had all scuttled away from the glare of the headlights.


ve lost the trail," he said. "C
s go and find them."

Ron didn
t move. His eyes were fixed on a point
some ten feet above the forest floor, right behind Harry. His face was
livid with terror.

Harry didn
s
legs leave the ground, too, heard Fang whimpering and howling - next
moment, he was being swept away into the dark trees.

Head hanging, Harry saw that what had hold of him was marching on
six immensely long, hairy legs, the front two clutching him tightly below
a pair of shining black pincers. Behind him, he could hear another of
the creatures, no doubt carrying Ron. They were moving into the very
heart of the forest. Harry could hear Fang fighting to free himself from
a third monster, whining loudly, but Harry couldn
s clutches; he only
knew that the darkness suddenly lifted enough for him to see that the
leaf-strewn ground was now swarming with spiders. Craning his neck
sideways, he realized that they had reached the ridge of

*21$*

a vast hollow, a hollow that had been cleared of trees, so that the stars
shone brightly onto the worst scene he had ever laid eyes on.

Spiders. Not tiny spiders like those surging over the leaves below.
Spiders the size of carthorses, eight-eyed, eight-legged, black, hairy,
gigantic. The massive specimen that was carrying Harry made its way
down the steep slope toward a misty, domed web in the very center of
the hollow, while its fellows closed in all around it, clicking their
pincers excitedly at the sight of its load.

Harry fell to the ground on all fours as the spider released him. Ron
and Fang thudded down next to him. Fang wasn
Aragog!
Aragog!
What is it?
Men,
Is it Hagrid?
Strangers,
Kill them,
I was sleeping ......


re friends of Hagrid
 Harry shouted. His heart seemed to have
left his chest to pound in his throat.

*216*

Click, click, click went the pincers of the spiders all around the hollow.

Aragog paused.


 he said slowly.


s in trouble," said Harry, breathing very fast. "That
ve come."

"In trouble?" said the aged spider, and Harry thought he heard concern
beneath the clicking pincers. "But why has he sent you?"

Harry thought of getting to his feet but decided against it; he didn
They think,, up at the school, that Hagrid's been setting a a -
something on students. They've taken him to Azkaban.
t usually make Harry feel sick with fear.

"But that was years ago," said Aragog fretfully. "Years and years ago.
I remember it well. That



t come from the Chamber of Secrets?" said
Harry, who could feel cold sweat on his forehead.

"I!" said Aragog, clicking angrily. "I was not born in the castle. I come
from a distant land. A traveler gave me to Hagrid when I was an egg.
Hagrid was only a boy, but he cared for me, hidden in a cupboard in
the castle, feeding me on scraps from the table. Hagrid

2Y

is my good friend, and a good man. When I was discovered, and
blamed for the death of a girl, he protected me. I have lived here in
the forest ever since, where Hagrid still visits me. He even found me
a wife, Mosag, and you see how our family has grown, all through
Hagrid
So you never - never attacked anyone?
Never,
It would have been my instinct, but
out of respect for Hagrid, I never harmed a human. The body of the
girl who was killed was discovered in a bathroom. I never saw any
part of the castle but the cupboard in which I grew up. Our kind like
the dark and the quiet ......


 said Harry.

s back and attacking people again -"

His words were drowned by a loud outbreak of clicking and the
rustling of many long legs shifting angrily; large black shapes shifted
all around him.

"The thing that lives in the castle," said Aragog, "is an ancient creature
we spiders fear above all others. Well do I remember how I pleaded
with Hagrid to let me go, when I sensed the beast moving about the
school."

"What is it?" said Harry urgently.

More loud clicking, more rustling; the spiders seemed to be closing in.

"We do not speak of it!" said Aragog fiercely. "We do not name it! I
never even told Hagrid the name of that dread creature, though he
asked me, many times."

Harry didn
We'll just go, then,
Go?
I think not ......







Harry spun around. Feet away, towering above him, was a solid wall
of spiders, clicking, their many eyes gleaming in their ugly black heads.

Even as he reached for his wand, Harry knew it was no good, there
were too many of them, but as he tried to stand, ready to die fighting,
a loud, long note sounded, and a blaze of light flamed through the
hollow.

Mr. Weasley's car was thundering down the slope, headlights glaring,
its horn screeching, knocking spiders aside; several were thrown onto
their backs, their endless legs waving in the air. The car screeched to
a halt in front of Harry and Ron and the doors flew open.


 Harry yelled, diving into the front seat; Ron seized the
boarhound around the middle and threw him, yelping, into the back of
the car - the doors slammed shut - Ron didn't touch the accelerator
but the car didn't need him; the engine roared and they were off,
hitting more spiders. They sped up the slope, out of the hollow, and
they were soon crashing through the forest, branches

whipping the windows as the car wound its way cleverly through the
widest gaps, following a path it obviously knew.

Harry looked sideways at Ron. His mouth was still open in the silent
scream, but his eyes weren't popping anymore.




Ron stared straight ahead, unable to speak.

They smashed their way through the undergrowth, Fang howling loudly
in the back seat, and Harry saw the side mirror snap off as they
squeezed past a large oak. After ten noisy, rocky minutes, the trees
thinned, and Harry could again see patches of sky.

The car stopped so suddenly that they were nearly thrown into the
windshield. They had reached the edge of the forest. Fang flung
himself at the window in his anxiety to get out, and when Harry
opened the door, he shot off through the trees to Hagrid's house, tail
between his legs. Harry got out too, and after a minute or so, Ron
seemed to regain the feeling in his limbs and followed, still stiff-necked
and staring. Harry gave the car a grateful pat as it reversed back into
the forest and disappeared from view.

Harry went back into Hagrid's cabin to get the Invisibility Cloak. Fang
was trembling under a blanket in his basket. When Harry got outside
again, he found Ron being violently sick in the pumpkin patch.


 said Ron weakly, wiping his mouth on his sleeve.

ll never forgive Hagrid. We



t hurt friends of his," said Harry.

"That
s problem!" said Ron, thumping the wall of the
cabin. "He always thinks monsters aren
re

*280*

made out, and look where it
 He was
shivering uncontrollably now. 



 said Harry,
throwing the cloak over Ron and prodding him in the arm to make him
walk. 


Ron gave a loud snort. Evidently, hatching Aragog in a cupboard
wasn't his idea of being innocent.

As the castle loomed nearer Harry twitched the cloak to make sure
their feet were hidden, then pushed the creaking front doors ajar.
They walked carefully back across the entrance hall and up the
marble staircase, holding their breath as they passed corridors where
watchful sentries were walking. At last they reached the safety of the
Gryffindor common room, where the fire had burned itself into
glowing ash. They took off the cloak and climbed the winding stair to
their dormitory.

Ron fell onto his bed without bothering to get undressed. Harry,
however, didn't feel very sleepy. He sat on the edge of his fourposter,
thinking hard about everything Aragog had said.

The creature that was lurking somewhere in the castle, he thought,
sounded like a sort of monster Voldemort - even other monsters didn't
want to name it. But he and Ron were no closer to finding out what it
was, or how it Petrified its victims. Even Hagrid had never known
what was in the Chamber of Secrets.

Harry swung his legs up onto his bed and leaned back against his
pillows, watching the moon glinting at him through the tower window.

He couldn't see what else they could do. They had hit dead ends

*281*

everywhere. Riddle had caught the wrong person, the Heir of
Slytherin had got off, and no one could tell whether it was the same
person, or a different one, who had opened the Chamber this time.
There was nobody else to ask. Harry lay down, still thinking about
what Aragog had said.

He was becoming drowsy when what seemed like their very last
hope occurred to him, and he suddenly sat bolt upright.


 he hissed through the dark, 


Ron woke with a yelp like Fang's, stared wildly around, and saw
Harry.



said Harry, ignoring Neville's snufing snores from the corner. 
s still there?"

Ron rubbed his eyes, frowning through the moonlight. And then he
understood, too.

"You don


	A ll those times we were in that bathroom, and she was just
	three toilets away,
and we could've asked her, and now. . .
 bathroom, the girls
 howled Seamus Finnigan. 
re still getting exams?"

There was a loud bang behind Harry as Neville Longbottom
The whole point of keeping the school open at this time is for you to
receive your education,
The exams will therefore
take place as usual, and I trust you are all studying hard.
Professor Dumbledore's instructions were to keep the school running
as normally as possible, she said. 
t
seem to think of anything that would be useful in an exam.

Ron looked as though he
Can you imagine me taking exams with this?
I have good news,
Dumbledore's coming back!
You've caught the Heir of Slytherin!
Quidditch matches are back on!
Professor Sprout has informed me that the Mandrakes are ready for
cutting at last. Tonight, we will be able to revive those people who
have been Petrified. I need hardly remind you all that one of them may
well be able to tell us who, or what, attacked them. I am hopeful that
this dreadful year will end with our catching the culprit.
t at all surprised to see that Draco Malfoy
hadn
d looked in
days.

"It won
 he said to Harry.

ll probably have all the answers when they wake her up!
Mind you, she
ve got exams in three
days
t studied. It might be kinder to leave her where
she is till they


Just then, Ginny Weasley came over and sat down next to Ron. She
looked tense and nervous, and Harry noticed that her hands were
twisting in her lap.


s up?" said Ron, helping himself to more porridge.

Ginny didn
t think who.

"Spit it out," said Ron, watching her.

Harry suddenly realized who Ginny looked like. She was rocking
backward and forward slightly in her chair, exactly like Dobby did
when he was teetering on the edge of revealing forbidden information.

"I
 Ginny mumbled, carefully not looking at
Harry.


 said Harry.

Ginny looked as though she couldn't find the right words.


said Ron.

Ginny opened her mouth, but no sound came out. Harry leaned
forward and spoke quietly, so that only Ginny and Ron could hear him.




Ginny drew a deep breath and, at that precise moment, Percy Weasley
appeared, looking tired and wan.


ve finished eating, I
m starving, I


Ginny jumped up as though her chair had just been electrified, gave
Percy a fleeting, frightened look, and scampered away. Percy sat
down and grabbed a mug from the center of the table.


 said Ron angrily. 
 thing
important!"

Halfway through a gulp of tea, Percy choked.

"What sort of thing?" he said, coughing.

"I just asked her if she
Oh - that - that's nothing to do with the Chamber of Secrets,
How do you know?
Well, er, if you must know, Ginny, er, walked in on me the other day
when I was - well, never mind - the point is, she spot

ted me doing something and I, um, I asked her not to mention it to
anybody. I must say, I did think she'd keep her word. It's nothing,
really, Id just rather -
What were you doing, Percy?
Go on, tell us, we
won't laugh.
t smile back.

"Pass me those rolls, Harry, I


Harry knew the whole mystery might be solved tomorrow without
their help, but he wasn't about to pass up a chance to speak to Myrtle
if it turned up - and to his delight it did, midmorning, when they were
being led to History of Magic by Gilderoy Lockhart.

Lockhart, who had so often assured them that all danger had passed,
only to be proved wrong right away, was now wholeheartedly
convinced that it was hardly worth the trouble to see them safely
down the corridors. His hair wasn't as sleek as usual; it seemed he
had been up most of the night, patrolling the fourth floor.


 he said, ushering them around a corner. 
s mouths will be It was
Hagrid.
m astounded Professor McGonagall thinks all
these security measures are necessary."

(ti agree, sir," said Harry, making Ron drop his books in surprise.

"Thank you, Harry, said Lockhart graciously while they waited for a
long line of Hufflepuffs to pass. "I mean, we teachers have quite
enough to be getting on with, without walking students to classes and
standing guard all night ......

"That
 said Ron, catching on. 
t you leave us here, sir,
we



 said Lockhart. 


And he hurried off.


 Ron sneered after him. 


They let the rest of the Gryffindors draw ahead of them, then darted
down a side passage and hurried off toward Moaning Myrtle's
bathroom. But just as they were congratulating each other on their
brilliant scheme




It was Professor McGonagall, and her mouth was the thinnest of thin
lines.


 Ron stammered. 



 said Harry. Ron and Professor McGonagall both looked
at him.


t seen her for ages, Professor," Harry went on hurriedly,
treading on Ron
and we thought we'd sneak into the hospital
wing, you know, and tell her the Mandrakes are nearly ready and, er,
not to worry -
Of course,
Of course, I realize this has all been hardest on the friends
of those who have been ... I quite understand. Yes,

Potter, of course you may visit Miss Granger. I will inform Professor
Binns where you've gone. Tell Madam Pomfrey I have given my
permission.
d
avoided detention. As they turned the corner, they distinctly heard
Professor McGonagall blow her nose.

"That," said Ron fervently, "was the best story you


They had no choice now but to go to the hospital wing and tell Madam
Pomfrey that they had Professor McGonagall's permission to visit
Hermione.

Madam Pomfrey let them in, but reluctantly.


s just no point talking to a Petrified. person," she said, and they
had to admit she had a point when they
t have the faintest inkling
that she had visitors, and that they might just as well tell her bedside
cabinet not to worry for all the good it would do.

"Wonder if she did see the attacker, though?" said Ron, looking sadly
at Hermione
Because if he sneaked up on them all, no
one'll ever know . .....

But Harry wasn't looking at Hermione's face. He was more interested
in her right hand. It lay clenched on top of her blankets, and bending
closer, he saw that a piece of paper was scrunched inside her fist.

Making sure that Madam Pomfrey was nowhere near, he pointed this
out to Ron.


 Ron whispered, shifting his chair so that he
blocked Harry from Madam Pomfrey's view.

It was no easy task. Hermione's hand was clamped so tightly around
the paper that Harry was sure he was going to tear it. While Ron kept
watch he tugged and twisted, and at last, after several tense minutes,
the paper came free.

It was a page torn from a very old library book. Harry smoothed it out
eagerly and Ron leaned close to read it, too.

Of the many fearsome beasts and monsters that roam our land,
there is none more curious or more deadly than the Basilisk,
known also as the King of Serpents. This snake, which may
reach gigantic size and live many hundreds of years, is born

from a chicken's egg, hatched beneath a toad. Its methods of killing are
most wondrous, for aside from its deadly and venomous fangs, the Basilisk
has a murderous stare, and all who are fixed with the beam of its eye shall
suffer instant death. Spiders flee before the Basilisk, for it is their mortal
enemy, and the Basilisk flees only from the crowing of the rooster, which is
fatal to it.

And beneath this, a single word had been written, in a hand Harry
recognized as Hermione's. Pipes.

It was as though somebody had just flicked a light on in his brain.


 he breathed. 
s a basilisk - a giant serpent! That why I
s because
I understand Parseltongue . . . ."

Harry looked up at the beds around him.

"The basilisk kills people by looking at them. But no one
ve seen the basilisk through Nearly
Headless Nick! Nick got the full blast of it, but he couldn


Rods jaw had dropped.


 he whispered eagerly.

Harry thought hard, picturing the scene on the night of Halloween.


 he said slowly. 
s
bathroom. I bet you Mrs. Norris only saw the reflection . . . ."

He scanned the page in his hand eagerly. The more he looked at it,
the more it made sense.

`: . . The crowing of the rooster . . . is fatal to it"! he read aloud. "Hagrid
t want one anywhere
near the castle once the Chamber was opened! Spidersflee before it.! It
all fits!"

"But how
 said Ron. 
ve seen. . ."

Harry, however, pointed at the word Hermione had scribbled at the
foot of the page.

"Pipes," he said. "Pipes . . . Ron, it
ve
been hearing that voice inside the walls . . . ."

291*

Ron suddenly grabbed Harry
The entrance to the Chamber of Secrets!
What if it's a bathroom? What if it's in -
s bathroom, "said Harry.
They sat there, excitement coursing through them, hardly able
to believe it.
"This means," said Harry, "I can
s one, too. That
s been
controlling the basilisk."
"What
 said Ron, whose eyes were flashing.



s go to the staff room," said Harry, jumping up. "She
s nearly break."
They ran downstairs. Not wanting to be discovered hanging
around in another corridor, they went straight into the deserted
staff room. It was a large, paneled room full of dark, wooden chairs.
Harry and Ron paced around it, too excited to sit down.
But the bell to signal break never came.
Instead, echoing through the corridors came Professor McGon
agall


Harry wheeled around to stare at Ron.



ll we do?" said Ron, aghast. "Go back to the dormitory?"
"No," said Harry, glancing around. There was an ugly sort of
wardrobe to his left, full of the teachers
In here. Let's hear
what it's all about. Then we can tell them what we've found out.
It has happened,
A student has been
taken by the monster. Right into the Chamber itself.
How can you be sure?
The Heir of Slytherin,
left another message. Right underneath the first one. `Her
skeleton will lie in the Chamber forever. 


Professor Flitwick burst into tears.

"Who is it?" said Madam Hooch, who had sunk, weak-kneed, into a
chair. "Which student?"

"Ginny Weasley," said Professor McGonagall.

Harry felt Ron slide silently down onto the wardrobe floor beside
him.

"We shall have to send all the students home tomorrow," said
Professor McGonagall. "This is the end of Hogwarts. Dumbledore
always said. . ."

The staffroom door banged open again. For one wild moment,
Harry was sure it would be Dumbledore. But it was Lockhart, and
he was beaming.

"So sorry - dozed off - what have I missed?"

He didn
Just the man,
The very man. A girl has been snatched by
the monster, Lockhart. Taken into the Chamber of Secrets itself. Your
moment has come at last.
That's right, Gilderoy,
Weren't you
saying just last night that you've known all along where the entrance to
the Chamber of Secrets is?
I - well, I -
Yes, didn't you tell me you were sure you knew what was inside it?
D-did I? I don't recall -
I certainly remember you saying you were sorry you hadn't had a
crack at the monster before Hagrid was arrested,
Didn't
you say that the whole affair had been bungled, and that you should
have been given a free rein from the first?
I - I really never - you may have misunderstood -
We'll leave it to you, then, Gilderoy,
Tonight will be an excellent time to do it. We'll make sure everyone's
out of your way. You'll be able to tackle the monster all by youself. A
free rein at last.
t look remotely handsome anymore. His lip was
trembling, and in the absence of his usually toothy grin, he looked
weak-chinned and feeble.

"V very well," he said. "I
ll be in my office, getting getting ready."

And he left the room.

"Right," said Professor McGonagall, whose nostrils were flared,

"that


The teachers rose and left, one by one.

It was probably the worst day of Harry's entire life. He, Ron, Fred,
and George sat together in a corner of the Gryffindor common room,
unable to say anything to each other. Percy wasn't there. He had gone
to send an owl to Mr. and Mrs. Weasley, then shut himself up in his
dormitory.

No afternoon ever lasted as long as that one, nor had Gryffindor
Tower ever been so crowded, yet so quiet. Near sunset, Fred and
George went up to bed, unable to sit there any longer.


 said Ron, speaking for the first time
since they had entered the wardrobe in the staff room. 
s why
she was taken. It wasn
d
found out something about the Chamber of Secrets. That must be why
she was -" Ron rubbed his eyes frantically. "I mean, she was a pure-
blood. There can


Harry could see the sun sinking, blood-red, below the skyline. This was
the worst he had ever felt. If only there was something they could do.
Anything.


 said Ron. 
you think there
s not - you
know ="

Harry didn
t see how Ginny could still
be alive.

"D
 said Ron. 
s going to try and get into the
Chamber. We can tell him where we think it is, and tell him it


Because Harry couldn't think of anything else to do, and because he
wanted to be doing something, he agreed. The Gryffindors around
them were so miserable, and felt so sorry for the Weasleys, that
nobody tried to stop them as they got up, crossed the room, and left
through the portrait hole.

Darkness was falling as they walked down to Lockhart's office.
There seemed to be a lot of activity going on inside it. They could hear
scraping, thumps, and hurried footsteps.

Harry knocked and there was a sudden silence from inside. Then the
door opened the tiniest crack and they saw one of Lockhart's eyes
peering through it.


 he said, opening the door a bit
wider. 
m rather busy at the moment - if you would be quick -"

"Professor, we
 said Harry. 
ll help you."

"Er - well - it
 The side of Lockhart's face that they
could see looked very uncomfortable. 


He opened the door and they entered.

His office had been almost completely stripped. Two large trunks
stood open on the floor. Robes, jade-green, lilac, midnightblue, had
been hastily folded into one of them; books were jumbled untidily into
the other. The photographs that had covered the walls were now
crammed into boxes on the desk.

*296*


 said Harry.


 said Lockhart, ripping a life-size poster of himself from
the back of the door as he spoke and starting to roll it up. 



 said Ron jerkily.


 said Lockhart, avoiding their
eyes as he wrenched open a drawer and started emptying the contents
into a bag. 



re the Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher!" said Harry.
"You can



 Lockhart muttered, now
piling socks on top of his robes. 
t
expect -"

"You mean you
 said Harry disbelievingly. 



 said Lockhart delicately.


 Harry shouted.


 said Lockhart, straightening up and frowning at Harry.

t have sold half as
well if people didn
d look dreadful on the front cover. No
dress sense at all. And the witch who banished the Bandon Banshee
had a harelip. I mean, come on -"

"So you
 said Harry incredulously.


 said Lockhart, shaking his head impatiently, 
s not
nearly as simple as that. There was work involved. I had

*297*

to track these people down. Ask them exactly how they managed to
do what they did. Then I had to put a Memory Charm on them so they
wouldn
s one thing I pride myself on, it
s been a lot of work, Harry. It


He banged the lids of his trunks shut and locked them.


s see," he said. "I think that


He pulled out his wand and turned to them.


ll have to put a Memory Charm on you
now. Can


Harry reached his wand just in time. Lockhart had barely raised his,
when Harry bellowed, 


Lockhart was blasted backward, falling over his trunk; his wand flew
high into the air; Ron caught it, and flung it out of the open window.


t have let Professor Snape teach us that one," said Harry
furiously, kicking Lockhart
What d'you want me to do?
I don't know
where the Chamber of Secrets is. There's nothing I can do.
You're in luck,
We think we know where it is. And what's inside it. Let's go.
s bathroom.

They sent Lockhart in first. Harry was pleased to see that he was
shaking.

Moaning Myrtle was sitting on the tank of the end toilet.

"Oh, it
 she said when she saw Harry. 



 said Harry.

Myrtle's whole aspect changed at once. She looked as though she had
never been asked such a flattering question.


 she said with relish. 

Myrtle swelled importantly, her face shining. 



 said Harry.


 said Myrtle in hushed tones. 
 She looked dreamily at Harry. 
d ever laughed at my glasses."

"Where exactly did you see the eyes?" said Harry.

*299*

"Somewhere there," said Myrtle, pointing vaguely toward the sink in
front of her toilet.

Harry and Ron hurried over to it. Lockhart was standing well back, a
look of utter terror on his face.

It looked like an ordinary sink. They examined every inch of it, inside
and out, including the pipes below. And then Harry saw it: Scratched
on the side of one of the copper taps was a tiny snake.

"That tap
 said Myrtle brightly as he tried to turn it.


 said Ron. 



 Harry thought hard. The only times he'd ever managed to
speak Parseltongue were when he'd been faced with a real snake. He
stared hard at the tiny- engraving, trying to imagine it was real.


 he said.

He looked at Ron, who shook his head.


 he said.

Harry looked back at the snake, willing himself to believe it was alive.
If he moved his head, the candlelight made it look as though it were
moving.


 he said.

Except that the words weren't what he heard; a strange hissing had
escaped him, and at once the tap glowed with a brilliant white light and
began to spin. Next second, the sink began to move; the sink, in fact,
sank, right out of sight, leaving a large pipe exposed, a pipe wide
enough for a man to slide into.

Harry heard Ron gasp and looked up again. He had made up his mind
what he was going to do.

*300*


m going down there," he said. .

He couldn
Me too,
Well, you hardly seem to need me,
I'll just -
You can go first,
Boys,
Boys, what good will it do?
I really don't think -
We must be miles under the school,
Under the lake, probably,
Lumos!
C'mon,
Remember,
any sign of movement, close your eyes right away . .....

But the tunnel was quiet as the grave, and the first unexpected sound
they heard was a loud crunch as Ron stepped on what turned out to be
a rat's skull. Harry lowered his wand to look at the floor and saw that
it was littered with small animal bones. Trying very hard not to
imagine what Ginny might look like if they found her, Harry led the
way forward, around a dark bend in the tunnel.


s something up there -" said Ron hoarsely, grabbing
Harry
t moving.

"Maybe it
 he breathed, glancing back at the other two.
Lockhart's hands were pressed over his eyes. Harry turned back to
look at the thing, his heart beating so fast it hurt.

* 302 *

Very slowly, his eyes as narrow as he could make them and still see,
Harry edged forward, his wand held high.

The light slid over a gigantic snake skin, of a vivid, poisonous green,
lying curled and empty across the tunnel floor. The creature that had
shed it must have been twenty feet long at least.


 said Ron weakly.

There was a sudden movement behind them. Gilderoy Lockhart's
knees had given way.


 said Ron sharply, pointing his wand at Lockhart.

Lockhart got to his feet - then he dived at Ron, knocking him to the
ground.

Harry jumped forward, but too late - Lockhart was straightening up,
panting, Ron's wand in his hand and a gleaming smile back on his
face.


 he said. 


He raised Ron's Spellotaped wand high over his head and yelled,



The wand exploded with the force of a small bomb. Harry flung his
arms over his head and ran, slipping over the coils of snake skin, out
of the way of great chunks of tunnel ceiling that were thundering to
the floor. Next moment, he was standing alone, gazing at a solid wall
of broken rock.


 he shouted. 



m here!" came Ron
I'm
okay - this git's not, though - he got blasted by the wand ='

*303*

There was a dull thud and a loud 
 It sounded as though Ron had
just kicked Lockhart in the shins.


 Ron's voice said, sounding desperate. 
t get
through - it
t seem a good moment to try - what if the whole
tunnel caved in?

There was another thud and another "ow!" from behind the rocks.
They were wasting time. Ginny had already been in the Chamber of
Secrets for hours .... Harry knew there was only one thing to do.

"Wait there," he called to Ron. "Wait with Lockhart. I
m
not back in an hour. . .

There was a very pregnant pause,

"I
 said Ron, who seemed to be trying
to keep his voice steady. 



 said Harry, trying to inject some confidence into his
shaking voice.

And he set off alone past the giant snake skin.

Soon the distant noise of Ron straining to shift the rocks was gone.
The tunnel turned and turned again. Every nerve in Harry's body was
tingling unpleasantly. He wanted the tunnel to end, yet dreaded what
he'd find when it did. And then, at last, as he crept around yet another
bend, he saw a solid wall ahead on which two entwined serpents were
carved, their eyes set with great, glinting emeralds.

*304*

Harry approached, his throat very dry. There was no need to pretend
these stone snakes were real; their eyes looked strangely alive.

He could guess what he had to do. He cleared his throat, and the
emerald eyes seemed to flicker.


said Harry, in a low, faint hiss.

The serpents parted as the wall cracked open, the halves slid smoothly
out of sight, and Harry, shaking from head to foot, walked inside.

e was standing at the end of a very long, dimly lit chamber. Towering
stone pillars entwined with more carved serpents rose to support a
ceiling lost in darkness, casting long, black shadows through the odd,
greenish gloom that filled the place.

His heart beating very fast, Harry stood listening to the chill silence.
Could the basilisk be lurking in a shadowy corner, behind a pillar? And
where was Ginny?

He pulled out his wand and moved forward between the serpentine
columns. Every careful footstep echoed loudly off the shadowy walls.
He kept his eyes narrowed, ready to clamp them shut at the smallest
sign of movement. The hollow eye sockets of the stone snakes
seemed to be following him. More than once, with a jolt of the
stomach, he thought he saw one stir.

Then, as he drew level with the last pair of pillars, a statue high as the
Chamber itself loomed into view, standing against the back wall.

*306*



Harry had to crane his neck to look up into the giant face above: It
was ancient and monkeyish, with a long, thin beard that fell almost to
the bottom of the wizard's sweeping stone robes, where two
enormous gray feet stood on the smooth Chamber floor. And between
the feet, facedown, lay a small, black-robed figure with flaming-red
hair.


 Harry muttered, sprinting to her and dropping to his knees.

t be dead - please don
 He flung his wand
aside, grabbed Ginny's shoulders, and turned her over. Her face was
white as marble, and as cold, yet her eyes were closed, so she wasn't
Petrified. But then she must be


 Harry muttered desperately, shaking her.
Ginny's head lolled hopelessly from side to side.


t wake," said a soft voice.

Harry jumped and spun around on his knees.

A tall, black-haired boy was leaning against the nearest pillar,
watching. He was strangely blurred around the edges, as though
Harry were looking at him through a misted window. But there was
no mistaking him

"Tom - Tom Riddle?"

Riddle nodded, not taking his eyes off Harry
What d'you mean, she won't wake?
She's
not - she's not -?
She's still alive,
But only just.
Are you a ghost?
A memory,
Preserved in a diary for fifty years.

He pointed toward the floor near the statue's giant toes. Lying open
there was the little black diary Harry had found in Moaning Myrtle's
bathroom. For a second, Harry wondered how it had got there - but
there were more pressing matters to deal with.


ve got to help me, Tom," Harry said, raising Ginny
We've got to get her out of here. There's a basilisk ... I don't know
where it is, but it could be along any moment .... Please, help me -1)

Riddle didn't move. Harry, sweating, managed to hoist Ginny half off
the floor, and bent to pick up his wand again.

But his wand had gone.




He looked up. Riddle was still watching him - twirling Harry's wand
between his long fingers.


 said Harry, stretching out his hand for it.

A smile curled the corners of Riddle's mouth. He continued to stare at
Harry, twirling the wand idly.


 said Harry urgently, his knees sagging with Ginny's dead
weight. 
ve got to go! If the basilisk comes -"

"It won
 said Riddle calmly.

Harry lowered Ginny back onto the floor, unable to hold her up any
longer.


you mean?" he said. "Look, give me my wand, I might need it
-"

Riddle
You won't be needing it,
What d'you mean, I won't be -?
I've waited a long time for this, Harry Potter,
For the
chance to see you. To speak to you.
Look,
I don't think you get it. We're in
the Chamber of Secrets. We can talk later -
We're going to talk now,
s wand.

Harry stared at him. There was something very funny going on here
....

"How did Ginny get like this?" he asked slowly.

"Well, that
 said Riddle pleasantly. 
s like this is
because she opened her heart and spilled all her secrets to an invisible
stranger."

"What are you talking about?" said Harry.

"The diary," said Riddle. `My diary. Little Ginny
 -Riddle's eyes glinted 
t think famous, good, great Harry Potter would ever like her . . . ."

All the time he spoke, Riddle
s face. There
was an almost hungry look in them.

"It
 he went on. 
s ever
understood me like you, Tom .... I
ve got this diary to

*309*

confide in .... It
t suit him. It made the hairs
stand up on the back of Harry
If I say it myself, Harry, I've always been able to charm the people I
needed. So Ginny poured out her soul to me, and her soul happened to
be exactly what I wanted .... I grew stronger and stronger on a diet of
her deepest fears, her darkest secrets. I grew powerful, far more
powerful than little Miss Weasley. Powerful enough to start feeding
Miss Weasley a few of my secrets, to start pouring a little of my soul
back into her. . .
What d'you mean?
 Haven't you guessed yet, Harry Potter?
Ginny
Weasley opened the Chamber of Secrets. She strangled the school
roosters and daubed threatening messages on the walls. She set the
Serpent of Slytherin on four Mudbloods, and the Squib's cat.


 Harry whispered.


 said Riddle, calmly. 
t know what she was
doing at first. It was very amusing. I wish you could have seen her
new diary entries ... far more interesting, they became .... Dear Tom,"
he recited, watching Harry
m losing my
memory. There are rooster feathers all over my robes and 1 don
t remember what 1 did on the night of
Halloween, but a cat was attacked and I
m pale and I
t know where I was. Tom, what am I going to do? I think I
m the one attacking everyone, Tom!"

Harry
it took a very long time for stupid little Ginny to stop trusting her
diary,
But she finally became suspicious and tried to
dispose of it. And that's where you came in, Harry. You found it, and I
couldn't have been more delighted. Of all the people who could have
picked it up, it was you, the very person I was most anxious to meet . .
. .
And why did you want to meet me?
Well, you see, Ginny told me all about you, Harry,
Your
whole fascinating history. 
s forehead, and their expression grew hungrier. "I knew I must
find out more about you, talk to you, meet you if I could. So I decided
to show you my famous capture of that great oaf, Hagrid, to gain your
trust -"

"Hagrid
 said Harry, his voice now shaking. 
t you? I thought you made a mistake, but -"

Riddle laughed his high laugh again.

"It was my word against Hagrid
t possibly be the Heir of
Slytherin. It had taken me five whole years to find out everything I
could about the Chamber of Secrets and discover the secret entrance
... as though Hagrid had the brains, or the power!

"Only the Transfiguration teacher, Dumbledore, seemed to think
Hagrid was innocent. He persuaded Dipper to keep Hagrid and train
him as gamekeeper. Yes, I think Dumbledore might have guessed ....
Dumbledore never seemed to like me as much as the other teachers
did ......

"I bet Dumbledore saw right through you," said Harry, his teeth gritted.

"Well, he certainly kept an annoyingly close watch on me after Hagrid
was expelled," said Riddle carelessly. "I knew it wouldn
t going
to waste those long years Id spent searching for it. I decided to leave
behind a diary, preserving my sixteen-year-old self in its pages, so that
one day, with luck, I would be able to lead another in my footsteps, and
finish Salazar Slytherin



t finished it," said Harry triumphantly. "No one



t I already told you," said Riddle quietly, "that killing Mudbloods
doesn


Harry stared at him.


What if you found out how to
work it, and I repeated all her secrets to you? What if, even worse, I
told you who'd been strangling roosters? So the foolish little brat waited
until your dormitory was deserted and stole it back. But I knew what I
must do. It was clear to me that you were on the trail of Slytherin's
heir. From everything Ginny had told me about you, I knew you would
go to any lengths to solve the mystery --

particularly if one of your best friends was attacked. And Ginny had
told me the whole school was buzzing because you could speak
Parseltongue ....


t much life left in her .... She put too much into the diary, into
me. Enough to let me leave its pages at last .... I have been waiting for
you to appear since we arrived here. I knew you



 Harry spat, fists still clenched.


 said Riddle, smiling pleasantly, 
s powers were destroyed?"

There was an odd red gleam in his hungry eyes now.

"Why do you care how I escaped?" said Harry slowly. "Voldemort was
after your time ......

"Voldemort," said Riddle softly, "is my past, present, and future, Harry
Potter . . . ."

He pulled Harry
You see?
It was a name I was already using at
Hogwarts, to my most intimate friends only, of course. You think I
was going to use my filthy Muggle father's name forever? I, in whose
veins runs the blood of Salazar Slytherin himself, through my
mother's side? I, keep the name of a foul, common Muggle, who
abandoned me even before I was born, just because he found out his
wife was a witch? No, Harry - I fashioned myself a new name, a
name I knew wizards everywhere would one day fear to speak,
when I had become the greatest sorcerer in the world!
s brain seemed to have jammed. He stared numbly at Riddle,
at the orphaned boy who had grown up to murder Harry
You're not,
Not what?
Not the greatest sorcerer in the world,
Sorry to disappoint you and all that, but the greatest wizard in the
world is Albus Dumbledore. Everyone says so. Even when you were
strong, you didn't dare try and take over at Hogwarts. Dumbledore
saw through you when you were at school and he still frightens you
now, wherever you're hiding these days -
s face, to be replaced by a very ugly
look.

*31-4*

"Dumbledore
 he hissed.


s not as gone as you might think!" Harry retorted. He was
speaking at random, wanting to scare Riddle, wishing rather than
believing it to be true

Riddle opened his mouth, but froze.

Music was coming from somewhere. Riddle whirled around to stare
down the empty Chamber. The music was growing louder. It was
eerie, spine-tingling, unearthly; it lifted the hair on Harry
s and gleaming golden talons, which were gripping a ragged
bundle.

A second later, the bird was flying straight at Harry. It dropped the
ragged thing it was carrying at his feet, then landed heavily on his
shoulder. As it folded its great wings, Harry looked up and saw it had a
long, sharp golden beak and a beady black eye.

The bird stopped singing. It sat still and warm next to Harry
That's a phoenix 	said Riddle, staring shrewdly back at it.

	
 Harry breathed, and he felt the bird's golden claws
squeeze his shoulder gently


 said Riddle, now eyeing the ragged thing that Fawkes had
dropped, 
s the old school Sorting Hat -"

So it was. Patched, frayed, and dirty, the hat lay motionless at Harry
This is what Dumbledore sends his defender! A songbird and an old
hat! Do you feel brave, Harry Potter? Do you feel safe now?
t answer. He might not see what use Fawkes or the
Sorting Hat were, but he was no longer alone, and he waited for
Riddle to stop laughing with his courage mounting.

"To business, Harry," said Riddle, still smiling broadly. "Twice - in your
past, in my future - we have met. And twice I failed to kill you. How
did you survive? Tell me everything. The longer you talk," he added
softly, "the longer you stay alive."

Harry was thinking fast, weighing his chances. Riddle had the wand.
He, Harry, had Fawkes and the Sorting Hat, neither of which would
be much good in a duel. It looked bad, all right ... but the longer Riddle
stood there, the more life was dwindling out of Ginny ... and in the
meantime, Harry noticed suddenly, Riddle
No one knows why you lost your powers when you attacked me,
I don't know myself But I know why you
couldn't kill me. Because my mother died to save me. My common
Muggle-born mother,
She
stopped you killing me. And I've seen the real you, I saw you last
year. You're a wreck. You're barely alive. That's where all your
power got you. You're in hiding. You're ugly, you're foul -
s face contorted. Then he forced it into an awful smile. "So.
Your mother died to save you. Yes, that
s
all I wanted to know."

Harry stood, tense, waiting for Riddle to raise his wand. But Riddle
Now, Harry, I'm going to teach you a little lesson. Let's match the
powers of Lord Voldemort, Heir of Salazar Slytherin, against famous
Harry Potter, and the best weapons Dumbledore can give him . . . .
Speak to me, Slytherin, greatest of the Hogwarts Four. 
s gigantic stone face was moving. Horrorstruck, Harry saw
his mouth opening, wider and wider, to make a huge black hole.

	And something was stirring inside the statue
 wing sweep his cheek as he took flight.
Harry wanted to shout, "Don
 but what chance did a
phoenix have against the king of serpents?

Something huge hit the stone floor of the Chamber. Harry felt it
shudder - he knew what was happening, he could sense it, could
almost see the giant serpent uncoiling itself from Slytherin's mouth.
Then he heard Riddle's hissing voice:




The basilisk was moving toward Harry; he could hear its heavy body
slithering heavily across the dusty floor. Eyes still tightly shut, Harry
began to run blindly sideways, his hands outstretched, feeling his way -
Voldemort was laughing

Harry tripped. He fell hard onto the stone and tasted blood the serpent
was barely feet from him, he could hear it coming

There was a loud, explosive spitting sound right above him, and then
something heavy hit Harry so hard that he was smashed into the wall.
Waiting for fangs to sink through his body he heard more mad hissing,
something thrashing wildly off the pillars

He couldn't help it - he opened his eyes wide enough to squint at what
was going on.

The enormous serpent, bright, poisonous green, thick as an oak trunk,
had raised itself high in the air and its great blunt head was weaving
drunkenly between the pillars. As Harry trembled, ready to close his
eyes if it turned, he saw what had distracted the snake.

Fawkes was soaring around its head, and the basilisk was snapping
furiously at him with fangs long and thin as sabers

Fawkes dived. His long golden beak sank out of sight and a

*318*

sudden shower of dark blood spattered the floor. The snake's tail
thrashed, narrowly missing Harry, and before Harry could shut his
eyes, it turned - Harry looked straight into its face and saw that its
eyes, both its great, bulbous yellow eyes, had been punctured by the
phoenix; blood was streaming to the floor, and the snake was spitting
in agony.


 Harry heard Riddle screaming. 


The blinded serpent swayed, confused, still deadly. Fawkes was
circling its head, piping his eerie song, jabbing here and there at its
scaly nose as the blood poured from its ruined eyes.


 Harry muttered wildly, 
s tail whipped across the floor again. Harry ducked.
Something soft hit his face.

The basilisk had swept the Sorting Hat into Harry
s tail swung
over him again.

Help me - help me - Harry thought, his eyes screwed tight under the hat.
Please help me

There was no answering voice. Instead, the hat contracted, as though
an invisible hand was squeezing it very tightly.

Something very hard and heavy thudded onto the top of Harry
KILL THE BOY! LEAVE THE BIRD! THE BOY IS BEHIND YOU.
SNIFF -- SMELL HIM.
s head was falling, its body
coiling around, hitting pillars as it twisted to face him. He could see the
vast, bloody eye sockets, see the mouth stretching wide, wide enough
to swallow him whole, lined with fangs long as his sword, thin,
glittering, venomous -

It lunged blindly -- Harry dodged and it hit the Chamber wall. It lunged
again, and its forked tongue lashed Harry
s mouth -

But as warm blood drenched Harry
Fawkes,
You were fantastic, Fawkes . . . .
s
fang had pierced him.

He could hear echoing footsteps and then a dark shadow moved in
front of him.

"You
 said Riddle's voice above him. 
s bird knows it. Do you see what he
s crying."

Harry blinked. Fawke
I'm going to sit here and watch you die, Harry Potter. Take your time.
I'm in no hurry.
So ends the famous Harry Potter,
s distant voice. "Alone
in the Chamber of Secrets, forsaken by his friends, defeated at last by
the Dark Lord he so unwisely challenged. You


If this is dying, thought Harry, it's not so bad.

Even the pain was leaving him ....

But was this dying? Instead of going black, the Chamber seemed to be
coming back into focus. Harry gave his head a little shake and there was
Fawkes, still resting his head on Harry's arm. A pearly patch of tears was
shining all around the wound -- except that there was no wound


 said Riddle's voice suddenly. 


Harry raised his head. Riddle was pointing Harry's wand at

Fawkes; there was a bang like a gun, and Fawkes took flight again in a
whirl of gold and scarlet.


 said Riddle quietly, staring at Harry's arm. 


He looked into Harry's face. 
s lap -- the diary.

For a split second, both Harry and Riddle, wand still raised, stared at it.
Then, without thinking, without considering, as though he had meant to
do it all along, Harry seized the basilisk fang on the floor next to him
and plunged it straight into the heart of the book.

There was a long, dreadful, piercing scream. Ink spurted out of the
diary in torrents, streaming over Harry
s wand fell to the floor with a clatter and there
was silence. Silence except for the steady drip drip of ink still oozing
from the diary. The basilisk venom had burned a sizzling hole right
through it.

Shaking all over, Harry pulled himself up. His head was spinning as
though he
s mouth.

Then came a faint moan from the end of the Chamber. Ginny was
stirring. As Harry hurried toward her, she sat up. Her bemused

1,522

eyes traveled from the huge form of the dead basilisk, over Harry, in
his blood-soaked robes, then to the diary in his hand. She drew a great,
shuddering gasp and tears began to pour down her face.

"Harry -- oh, Harry -- I tried to tell you at b-breakfast, but I c-couldn
s Riddle? The last thing I r-
remember is him coming out of the diary --"

" It
 said Harry, holding up the diary, and showing Ginny the
fang hole, 
s finished. Look! Him and the basilisk. C
s get out of here --"

"I
 Ginny wept as Harry helped her
awkwardly to her feet. 
ve looked forward to coming to Hogwarts
ever since B-Bill came and n-now I
ll
Mum and Dad say?"

Fawkes was waiting for them, hovering in the Chamber entrance.
Harry urged Ginny forward; they stepped over the motionless coils of
the dead basilisk, through the echoing gloom, and back into the tunnel.
Harry heard the stone doors close behind them with a soft hiss.

After a few minutes
s ears.

"Ron!" Harry yelled, speeding up. "Ginny
ve got her!"

He heard Ron give a strangled cheer, and they turned the next bend to
see his eager face staring through the sizable gap he had managed to
make in the rock fall.

"Ginny!" Ron thrust an arm through the gap in the rock to pull

321,3

her through first. "You
t believe it! What happened?"
How - what -- where did that bird come from?"

Fawkes had swooped through the gap after Ginny.

"He
s," said Harry, squeezing through himself

"How come you
 said Ron, gaping at the glittering
weapon in Harry's hand.


ll explain when we get out of here," said Harry with a sideways
glance at Ginny, who was crying harder than ever.

"But --"

"Later," Harry said shortly. He didn
d been opening the Chamber, not in front of Ginny,
anyway. "Where



 said Ron, still looking puzzled but jerking his head up the
tunnel toward the pipe. 
s in a bad way. Come and see."

Led by Fawkes, whose wide scarlet wings emitted a soft golden glow
in the darkness, they walked all the way back to the mouth of the pipe.
Gilderoy Lockhart was sitting there, humming placidly to himself.

"His memory
 said Ron. 
t got a clue who he is, or where he is, or who
we are. I told him to come and wait here. He


Lockhart peered good-naturedly up at them all.


 he said. 
t it? Do you live here?"

"No," said Ron, raising his eyebrows at Harry.

Harry bent down and looked up the long, dark pipe.

"Have you thought how we
 he said to
Ron.

*324*

Ron shook his head, but Fawkes the phoenix had swooped past Harry
and was now fluttering in front of him, his beady eyes bright in the
dark. He was waving his long golden tail feathers. Harry looked
uncertainly at him.


 said Ron, looking
perplexed. 
re much too heavy for a bird to pull up there -"

"Fawkes," said Harry, "isn
 He turned quickly to the
others. 
ve got to hold on to each other. Ginny, grab Ron



 said Ron sharply to Lockhart.


s other hand --"

Harry tucked the sword and the Sorting Hat into his belt, Ron took
hold of the back of Harry
s strangely hot tail feathers.

An extraordinary lightness seemed to spread through his whole body
and the next second, in a rush of wings, they were flying upward
through the pipe. Harry could hear Lockhart dangling below him,
saying, "Amazing! Amazing! This is just like magic!" The chill air was
whipping through Harry
d stopped enjoying the
ride, it was over -- all four of them were hitting the wet floor of
Moaning Myrtle
You're alive,
There's no need to sound so disappointed,
Oh, well ... Id just been thinking ... if you had died, you'd have been
welcome to share my toilet,
Urgh!
Harry! I think Myrtle's grown fond of you! You've
got competition, Ginny!
s face.

"Where now?" said Ron, with an anxious look at Ginny. Harry pointed.

Fawkes was leading the way, glowing gold along the corridor. They
strode after him, and moments later, found themselves outside
Professor McGonagall
 I G 14 T V V N

DO

Y
s case)
blood. Then there was a scream.

"Ginny!"

It was Mrs. Weasley, who had been sitting crying in front of the fire.
She leapt to her feet, closely followed by Mr. Weasley, and both of
them flung themselves on their daughter.

Harry, however, was looking past them. Professor Dumbledore was
standing by the mantelpiece, beaming, next to Professor McGonagall,
who was taking great, steadying gasps, clutching her chest. Fawkes
went whooshing past Harry
s
shoulder, just as Harry found himself and Ron being swept into Mrs.
Weasleys tight embrace.

"You saved her! You saved her! How did you do it?"

"I think we
 said Professor McGonagall weakly.





Mrs. Weasley let go of Harry, who hesitated for a moment, then
walked over to the desk and laid upon it the Sorting Hat, the
rubyencrusted sword, and what remained of Riddle's diary.

Then he started telling them everything. For nearly a quarter of an
hour he spoke into the rapt silence: He told them about hearing the
disembodied voice, how Hermione had finally realized that he was
hearing a basilisk in the pipes; how he and Ron had followed the
spiders into the forest, that Aragog had told them where the last
victim of the basilisk had died; how he had guessed that Moaning
Myrtle had been the victim, and that the entrance to the Chamber of
Secrets might be in her bathroom ....


 Professor McGonagall prompted him as he paused, 


So Harry, his voice now growing hoarse from all this talking, told
them about Fawkes's timely arrival and about the Sorting Hat giving
him the sword. But then he faltered. He had so far avoided
mentioning Riddle's diary -- or Ginny. She was standing with her
head against Mrs. Weasley's shoulder, and tears were still coursing
silently down her cheeks. What if they expelled her? Harry thought in
panic. Riddle's diary didn't work anymore .... How could they prove
it had been he who'd made her do it all?

Instinctively, Harry looked at Dumbledore, who smiled faintly, the
firelight glancing off his half-moon spectacles.


 said Dumbledore gently, 


*328*

Relief -- warm, sweeping, glorious relief -- swept over Harry. 
s that?" said Mr. Weasley in a stunned voice. "YouKnow-Who?
En-enchant Ginny? But Ginny
t been ... has she?"

"It was this diary," said Harry quickly, picking it up and showing it to
Dumbledore. "Riddle wrote it when he was sixteen . . . ."

Dumbledore took the diary from Harry and peered keenly down his
long, crooked nose at its burnt and soggy pages.

"Brilliant," he said softly. "Of course, he was probably the most
brilliant student Hogwarts has ever seen." He turned around to the
Weasleys, who were looking utterly bewildered.

"Very few people know that Lord Voldemort was once called Tom
Riddle. I taught him myself, fifty years ago, at Hogwarts. He
disappeared after leaving the school ... traveled far and wide ... sank
so deeply into the Dark Arts, consorted with the very worst of our
kind, underwent so many dangerous, magical transformations, that
when he resurfaced as Lord Voldemort, he was barely recognizable.
Hardly anyone connected Lord Voldemort with the clever,
handsome boy who was once Head Boy here."

"But, Ginny," said Mrs. Weasley. "What



 Ginny sobbed. 
ve b-been writing in it, and he



 said Mr. Weasley, flabbergasted. 
t I taught you
anything. What have I always told you? Never trust anything that can
think for itself if you can
t
you show the diary to me, or your mother? A suspicious object like
that, it was clearly full of Dark Magic =
I d-didn't know,
I found it inside one of the books
Mum got me. I th-thought someone had just left it in there and
forgotten about it --
Miss Weasley should go up to the hospital wing right away,
This has been a terrible
ordeal for her. There will be no punishment. Older and wiser wizards
than she have been hoodwinked by Lord Voldemort.
Bed rest and perhaps a large, steaming
mug of hot chocolate. I always find that cheers me up,
You will find that Madam Pomfrey is
still awake. She's just giving out Mandrake juice -- I daresay the
basilisk's victims will be waking up any moment.
So Hermione's okay!
There has been no lasting harm done, Ginny,
You know, Minerva,
I think all this merits a good feast. Might I ask
you to go and alert the kitchens?
Right,
I'll leave you to deal with Potter and Weasley, shall I?
Certainly,
t about to be punished?

"I seem to remember telling you both that I would have to expel you if
you broke any more school rules, said Dumbledore.

*%30*

Ron opened his mouth in horror.

"Which goes to show that the best of us must sometimes eat our
words," Dumbledore went on, smiling. "You will both receive Special
Awards for Services to the School and -- let me see - yes, I think two
hundred points apiece for Gryffindor."

Ron went as briglitly pink as Lockhart
But one of us seems to be keeping mightily quiet about his part in this
dangerous adventure,
Why so modest,
Gilderoy?
Professor Dumbledore,
there was an accident
down in the Chamber of Secrets. Professor Lockhart --
Am I a professor?
Goodness. I
expect I was hopeless, was I?
He tried to do a Memory Charm and the wand backfired,
Dear me,
Impaled upon your own sword, Gilderoy!
Sword?
Haven't got a sword. That boy has,
though.
He'll lend you one.
Would you mind taking Professor Lockhart up to the infirmary, too?
Id like a few more words with Harry .....

Lockhart ambled out. Ron cast a curious look back at Dumbledore and
Harry as he closed the door.

Dumbledore crossed to one of the chairs by the fire.


 he said, and Harry sat, feeling unaccountably
nervous.


 said Dumbledore, eyes
twinkling again. 


He stroked the phoenix, which had fluttered down onto his knee.
Harry grinned awkwardly as Dumbledore watched him.


 said Dumbledore thoughtfully. 


Suddenly, something that was nagging at Harry came tumbling out of
his mouth.


m like him. Strange likenesses,
he said ......

"Did he, now?" said Dumbledore, looking thoughtfully at Harry from
under his thick silver eyebrows. "And what do you think, Harry?"

"I don
m like him!" said Harry, more loudly than he
I mean, I'm -- I'm in Gryffindor, I'm . . .
Professor,
The Sorting Hat told me
Id -- Id have done well in Slytherin. Everyone thought I was Slytherin's
heir for a while ... because I can speak Parseltongue ....


 said Dumbledore calmly,

m much
mistaken, he transferred some of his own powers to you the night he
gave you that scar. Not something he intended to do, I
Voldemort put a bit of himself in me?
It certainly seems so.
So I should be in Slytherin,
s face. "The Sorting Hat could see Slytherin



 said Dumbledore calmly. 
 he
added, his mustache quivering again. 



 said Harry in a defeated voice, 


`Exactly, 
Which makes you
very different from Tom Riddle. It is our choices, Harry, that show what
we truly are, far more than our abilities.
If you want proof, Harry, that you belong in
Gryffindor, I suggest you look more closely at this.
s desk, picked
up the blood-stained silver sword, and handed it to Harry. Dully, Harry
turned it over, the rubies blazing in the firelight. And then he saw the
name engraved just below the hilt.

Godric Gryffindor

*333*

"Only a true Gryffindor could have pulled that out of the hat, Harry,"
said Dumbledore simply.

For a minute, neither of them spoke. Then Dumbledore pulled open
one of the drawers in Professor McGonagall
 he
added thoughtfully. 
ll be needing a new Defense Against the
Dark Arts teacher... Dear me, we do seem to run through them, don


Harry got up and crossed to the door. He had just reached for the
handle, however, when the door burst open so violently that it bounced
back off the wall.

Lucius Malfoy stood there, fury in his face. And cowering behind his
legs, heavily wrapped in bandages, was Dobby.


 said Dumbledore pleasantly.

Mr. Malfoy almost knocked Harry over as he swept into the room.
Dobby went scurrying in after him, crouching at the hem of his cloak,
a look of abject terror on his face.

The elf was carrying a stained rag with which he was attempting to
finish cleaning Mr. Malfoys shoes. Apparently Mr. Malfoy had set out
in a great hurry, for not only were his shoes half-polished, but his
usually sleek hair was disheveled. Ignoring the elf bobbing
apologetically around his ankles, he fixed his cold eyes upon
Dumbledore.


 he said 
ve come back. The governors suspended you, but
you still saw fit to return to Hogwarts."

*%$4*

"Well, you see, Lucius," said Dumbledore, smiling serenely, "the
other eleven governors contacted me today. It was something like
being caught in a hailstorm of owls, to tell the truth. They
t
agree to suspend me in the first place."

Mr. Malfoy went even paler than usual, but his eyes were still slits of
fury.

"So -- have you stopped the attacks yet?" he sneered. "Have you
caught the culprit?"

"We have," said Dumbledore, with a smile.

"Well?"said Mr. Malfoy sharply. "Who is it?"

"The same person as last time, Lucius," said Dumbledore. "But this
time, Lord Voldemort was acting through somebody else. By means
of this diary."

He held up the small black book with the large hole through the
center, watching Mr. Malfoy closely. Harry, however, was watching
Dobby.

The elf was doing something very odd. His great eyes fixed
meaningfully on Harry, he kept pointing at the diary, then at Mr.
Malfoy, and then hitting himself hard on the head with his fist.

"I see. . . " said Mr. Malfoy slowly to Dumbledore.

"A clever plan," said Dumbledore in a level voice, still staring Mr.
Malfoy straight in the eye. "Because if Harry here" --Mr. Malfoy shot
Harry a swift, sharp look -- "and his friend Ron hadn
t
acted of her own free will ......

Mr. Malfoy said nothing. His face was suddenly masklike.

"And imagine," Dumbledore went on, "what might have happened
then .... The Weasleys are one of our most prominent pure-blood
families. Imagine the effect on Arthur Weasley and his Muggle
Protection Act, if his own daughter was discovered attacking and -
killing Muggle-borns .... Very fortunate the diary was discovered,
and Riddle
Who knows what the
consequences might have been otherwise ......

Mr. Malfoy forced himself to speak.


 he said stiffly.

And still, behind his back, Dobby was pointing, first to the diary,
then to Lucius Malfoy, then punching himself in the head.

And Harry suddenly understood. He nodded at Dobby, and Dobby
backed into a corner, now twisting his ears in punishment.


t you want to know how Ginny got hold of that diary, Mr.
Malfoy?" said Harry.

Lucius Malfoy rounded on him.

"How should I know how the stupid little girl got hold of it?" he said.

"Because you gave it to her," said Harry. "In Flourish and Blotts.
You picked up her old Transfiguration book and slipped the diary
inside it, didn


He saw Mr. Malfoy's white hands clench and unclench.


 he hissed.


 said Dumbledore, smiling at
Harry. 
s old school things. If any more of them find
their way into innocent hands, I think Arthur Weasley, for one, will
make sure they are traced back to you ......

Lucius Malfoy stood for a moment, and Harry distinctly saw his right
hand twitch as though he was longing to reach for his wand. Instead,
he turned to his house-elf

"We


He wrenched open the door and as the elf came hurrying up to him,
he kicked him right through it. They could hear Dobby squealing with
pain all the way along the corridor. Harry stood for a moment,
thinking hard. Then it came to him -


 he said hurriedly. 



 said Dumbledore calmly. 
s squeals of pain receding around the corner. Quickly,
wondering if this plan could possibly work, Harry took off one of his
shoes, pulled off his slimy, filthy sock, and stuffed the diary into it.
Then he ran down the dark corridor.

He caught up with them at the top of the stairs.

"Mr. Malfoy," he gasped, skidding to a halt, "I


And he forced the smelly sock into Lucius Malfoy's hand.




Mr. Malfoy ripped the sock off the diary, threw it aside, then looked
furiously from the ruined book to Harry.

*',531*

You'll meet the same sticky end as your parents one of these days,
Harry Potter,
They were meddlesome fools, too.

He turned to go.




But Dobby didn't move. He was holding up Harry's disgusting, slimy
sock, and looking at it as though it were a priceless treasure.


 said the elf in wonderment. 



s that?" spat Mr. Malfoy. "What did you say?"

"Got a sock," said Dobby in disbelief. "Master threw it, and Dobby
caught it, and Dobby -- Dobby is free. "

Lucius Malfoy stood frozen, staring at the elf Then he lunged at
Harry.

"You


But Dobby shouted, 


There was a loud bang, and Mr. Malfoy was thrown backward. He
crashed down the stairs, three at a time, landing in a crumpled heap
on the landing below. He got up, his face livid, and pulled out his
wand, but Dobby raised a long, threatening finger.


 he said fiercely, pointing down at Mr. Malfoy.



Lucius Malfoy had no choice. With a last, incensed stare at the pair
of them, he swung his cloak around him and hurried out of sight.


 said the elf shrilly, gazing up at Harry,
moonlight from the nearest window reflected in his orb-like eyes.




 said Harry, grinning. 


The elf's ugly brown face split suddenly into a wide, toothy smile.


ve just got one question, Dobby," said Harry as Dobby pulled on
Harry
You told me all this had nothing to
do with He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, remember? Well --
It was a clue, sir,
Was giving you a clue. The Dark Lord, before he changed
his name, could be freely named, you see?
Right,
Well, Id better go. There's a feast, and
my friend Hermione should be awake by now .....

Dobby threw his arms around Harry's middle and hugged him.


 he sobbed.



And with a final loud crack, Dobby disappeared.

Harry had been to several Hogwarts feasts, but never one quite like
this. Everybody was in their pajamas, and the celebration lasted all
night. Harry didn't know whether the best bit was Hermione running
toward him, screaming 
 or Justin
hurrying over from the Hufflepuff table to wring. his hand and
apologize endlessly for suspecting him, or Hagrid turning up at half
past three, cuffing Harry and Ron so hard on the shoulders that they
were knocked into their plates of trifle, or his and Ron's four hundred
points for Gryffindor securing the House Cup for the second year
running, or Professor McGonagall standing up to

*339*

tell them all that the exams had been canceled as a school treat (
 said Hermione), or Dumbledore announcing that, unfortunately,
Professor Lockhart would be unable to return next year, owing to the
fact that he needed to go away and get his memory back. Quite a few
of the teachers joined in the cheering that greeted this news.


 said Ron, helping himself to a jam doughnut. 


The rest of the final term passed in a haze of blazing sunshine.
Hogwarts was back to normal with only a few, small differences -
Defense Against the Dark Arts classes were canceled (
ve
had plenty of practice at that anyway," Ron told a disgruntled
Hermione) and Lucius Malfoy had been sacked as a school governor.
Draco was no longer strutting around the school as though he owned
the place. On the contrary, he looked resentful and sulky. On the other
hand, Ginny Weasley was perfectly happy again.

Too soon, it was time for the journey home on the Hogwarts Express.
Harry, Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, and Ginny got a compartment to
themselves. They made the most of the last few hours in which they
were allowed to do magic before the holidays. They played Exploding
Snap, set off the very last of Fred and George
s Cross when Harry remembered
something.

"Ginny - what did you see Percy doing, that he didn


*340*


 said Ginny, giggling. 
s got a girlfriend." Fred
dropped a stack of books on George
What?
It's that Ravenclaw prefect, Penelope Clearwater,
That's who he was writing to all last summer. He's been meeting her
all over the school in secret. I walked in on them kissing in an empty
classroom one day. He was so upset when she was -- you know -
attacked. You won't tease him, will you?
Wouldn't dream of it,
Definitely not,
This is called a telephone number,
I told your dad
how to use a telephone last summer - he'll know. Call me at the
Dursleys', okay? I can't stand another two months with only Dudley
to talk to ......


t they?" said
Hermione as they got off the train and joined the crowd thronging
toward the enchanted barrier. "When they hear what you did this
year?"

"Proud?" said Harry. "Are you crazy? All those times I could
t manage it? They
