 Wizard Wheezes - 51

SIX
The Portkey - 65

SEVEN
Bagman and Crouch - 75

EIGHT
The Quidditch World Cup - 95

NINE
The Dark Mark - 117

TEN
Mayhem at the Ministry - 145

ELEVEN
Aboard the Hogwarts Express - 158

TWELVE
The Triwizard Tournament - 171

THIRTEEN
Mad-Eye Moody - 193

FOURTEEN
The Unforgivable Curses - 209

FIFTEEN
Beauxbatons and Durmstrang - 228

SIXTEEN
The Goblet of Fire - 248

SEVENTEEN
The Four Champions -272

EIGHTEEN
The Weighing of the Wands -288

NINTEEN
The Hungarian Horntail -313

TWENTY
The First Task - 337

TWENTY-ONE
The House-Elf Liberation Front - 363

TWENTY-TWO
The Unexpected Task - 385

TWENTY-THREE
The Yule Ball - 403

TWENTY-FOUR
Rita Skeeter
the Riddle House,
creepy.
s morning when the Riddle House had still been well kept and impressive, a maid had entered the drawing room to find all three Riddles dead.  
	The maid had run screaming down the hill into the village and roused as many people as she could.
	"Lying there with their eyes wide open!  Cold as ice!  Still in their dinner things!"
	The police were summoned, and the whole of Little Hangleton had seethed with shocked curiosity and ill-disguised excitement.  Nobody wasted their breath pretending to feel very sad about the Riddles, for they had been most unpopular.  Elderly Mr. and Mrs. Riddle had been rich, snobbish, and rude, and their grown-up son, Tom, had been, if anything, worse.  All the villagers cared about was the identity of their murderer -- for plainly, three apparently healthy people did not all drop dead of natural causes on the same night.
	The Hanged Man, the village pub, did a roaring trade that night; the whole village seemed to have turned out to discuss the murders.  They were rewarded for leaving their firesides when the Riddles
Frank!
Never!
 gardener.  He lived alone in a run-down cottage on the grounds of the Riddle House.  Frank had come back from the war with a very stiff leg and a great dislike of crowds and loud noises, and had been working for the Riddles ever since.
	There was a rush to buy the cook drinks and hear more details.
	"Always thought he was odd," she told the eagerly listening villagers, after her fourth sherry.  "Unfriendly, like.  I
ve offered him a cuppa once, I
t."
	"Ah, now," said a woman at the bar, "he had a hard war, Frank.  He likes the quiet life.  That

	
 barked the cook.  
s been a spare key hanging in the gardener

	The villagers exchanged dark looks.
	
 grunted a man at the bar.
	
 said the landlord.
	
t like to get on the wrong side of Frank, didn
 said an excited woman in the corner.
	
 said Dot, nodding fervently.  

	By the following morning, hardly anyone in Little Hangleton doubted that Frank Bryce had killed the Riddles.
	But over in the neighboring town of Great Hangleton, in the dark and dingy police station, Frank was stubbornly repeating, again and again, that he was innocent, and that the only person he had seen near the house on the day of the Riddles' deaths had been a teenage boy, a stranger, dark-haired and pale.  Nobody else in the village had seen any such boy, and the police were quite sure Frank had invented him.
	Then, just when things were looking very serious for Frank, the report on the Riddles' bodies came back and changed everything.
	The police had never read an odder report.  A team of doctors had examined the bodies and had concluded that none of the Riddles had been poisoned, stabbed, shot, strangles, suffocated, or (as far as they could tell) harmed at all.  In fact (the report continued, in a tone of unmistakable bewilderment), the Riddles all appeared to be in perfet health -- apart from the fact that they were all dead.  The doctors did note (as though determined to find something wrong with the bodies) that each of the Riddles had a look of terror upon his or her face -- but as the frustrated police said, whoever heard of three people being frightened to death?
	As there was no proof that the Riddles had been murdered at all, the police were forced to let Frank go.  The Riddles were buried in the Little Hangleton churchyard, and their graves remained objects of curiosity for a while.  To everyone's surprise, and amid a cloud of suspicion, Frank Bryce returned to his cottage on the grounds of the Riddle House.
	
S far as I
t care what the police say," said Dot in the Hanged Man.  "And if he had any decency, he

	But Frank did not leave.  He stayed to tend the garden for the next family who lived in the Riddle House, and then the next -- for neither family stayed long.  Perhaps it was partly because of Frank that the new owners said there was a nasty feeling about the place, which, in the absence of inhabitants, started to fall into disrepair.

	The wealthy man who owned the Riddle House these days neither lived there nor put it to any use; they said in the village that he kept it for 
 though nobody was very clear what these might be.  The wealthy owner continued to pay Frank to do the gardening, however.  Frank was nearing his seventy-seventh birthday now, very deaf, his bad leg stiffer than ever, but could be seen pottering around the flower beds in fine weather, even though the weeds were starting to creep up on him, try as he might to suppress them.
	Weeds were not the only things Frank had to contend with either.  Boys from the village made a habit of throwing stones through the windows of the Riddle House.  They rode their bicycles over the lawns Frank worked so hard to keep smooth.  Once or twice, they broke into the old house for a dare.  They knew that old Frank's devotion to the house and the grounds amounted almost to an obsession, and it amused them to see him limping across the garden, brandishing his stick and yelling croakily at them.  Frank, for his part, believed the boys tormented him because they, like their parents and grandparents, though him a murderer.  So when Frank awoke one night in August and saw something very odd up at the old house, he merely assumed that the boys had gone one step further in their attempts to punish him.
	It was Frank's bad leg that woke him; it was paining him worse than ever in his old age.  He got up and limped downstairs into the kitchen with the idea of refilling his hot-water bottle to ease the stiffness in his knee.  Standing at the sink, filling the kettle, he looked up at the Riddle House and saw lights glimmering in its upper windows.  Frank knew at once what was going on.  The boys had broken into the house again, and judging by the flickering quality of the light, they had started a fire.
	Frank had no telephone, in any case, he had deeply mistrusted the police ever since they had taken him in for questioning about the Riddles' deaths.  He put down the kettle at once, hurried back upstairs as fast as his bad leg would allow, and was soon back in his kitchen, fully dressed and removing a rusty old key from its hook by the door.  He picked up his walking stick, which was propped against the wall, and set off into the night.  
	The front door of the Riddle House bore no sign of being forced, nor did any of the windows.  Frank limped around to the back of the house until he reached a door almost completely hidden by ivy, took out the old key, put it into the lock, and opened the door noiselessly.
	He let himself into the cavernous kitchen.  Frank had not entered it for many years; nevertheless, although it was very dark, he remembered where the door into the hall was, and he groped his way towards it, his nostrils full of the smell of decay, ears pricked for any sound of footsteps or voices from overhead.  He reached the hall, which was a little lighter owing to the large mullioned windows on either side of the front door, and started to climb the stairs, blessing the dust that lay thick upon the stone, because it muffled the sound of his feet and stick.
	On the landing, Frank turned right, and saw at once where the intruders were:  At the every end of the passage a door stood ajar, and a flickering light shone through the gap, casting a long sliver of gold across the black floor.  Frank edged closer and closer, he was able to see a narrow slice of the room beyond.
	The fire, he now saw, had been lit in the grate.  This surprised him.  Then he stopped moving and listened intently, for a man's voice spoke within the room; it sounded timid and fearful.
	

	
 said a second voice.  This too belonged to a man -- but it was strangely high-pitched, and cold as a sudden blast of icy wind.  Something about that voice made the sparse hairs on the back of Frank's neck stand up.  

	Frank turned his right ear toward the door, the better to hear.  There came the clink of a bottle being put down upon some hard surface, and then the dull scraping noise of a heavy chair being dragged across the floor.  Frank caught a glimpse of a small man, his back to the door, pushing the chair into place.  He was wearing a long black cloak, and there was a bald patch at the back of his head.  Then he went out of sight again.
	
 said the cold voice.
	
t know, My Lord," said the first voice nervously.  "She set out to explore the house, I think..."
	"You will milk her before we retire, Wormtail," said the second voice.  "I will need feeding in the night.  The journey has tired me greatly."
	Brow furrowed, Frank inclined his good ear still closer to the door, listening very hard.  There was a pause, and then the man called Wormtail spoke again.
	"My Lord, may I ask how long we are going to stay here?"
	"A week," said the cold voice.  "Perhapse longer.  The place is moderately comfortable, and the plan cannot proceed yet.  It would be foolish to act before the Quidditch World Cup is over."
	Frank inserted a gnarled finger into his ear and rotated it.  Owing, no doubt, to a buildup of earwax, he had heard the word "Quidditch," which was not a word at all.
	"The -- the Quidditch World Cup, My Lord?" said Wormtail.  (Frank dug his finger still more vigorously into his ear.)  "Forgive me, but -- I do not understand -- why should we wait until the World Cup is over?"
	"Because, fool, at this very moment wizards are pouring into the country from all over the world, and every meddler from the Ministry of Magic will be on duty, on the watch for signs of ususual activity, checking and double-checking identities.  They will be obsessed with security, lest the Muggles notice anything.  So we wait."
	Frank stopped trying to clear out his ear.  He had distinctly heard the words "Ministry of Magic," "wizards," and "Muggles."  Plainly, each of these expressions meant something secret, and Frank could think of only two sorts of people who would speak in code:  spies and criminals.  Frank tightened his hold on his walking stick once more, and listened more closely still.
	"Your Lordship is still determined, then?"  Wormtail said quietly.
	"Certainly I am determined, Wormtail."  There was a note of menace in the cold voice now.
	A slight pause followed -- and the Wormtail spoke, the words tumbling from him in a rush, as though he was forcing himself to say this before he lost his nerve.
	"It could be done without Harry Potter, My Lord."
	Another pause, more protracted, and then --
	"Without Harry Potter?" breathed the second voice softly.  "I see..."
	"My Lord, I do not say this out of concern for the boy!"  said Wormtail, his voice rising squeakily.  "The boy is nothing to me, nothing at all!  It is merely that if we were to use another witch or wizard -- any wizard -- the thing could be done so much more quickly!  If you allowed me to leave you for a short while -- you know that I can disguise myself most effectively -- I could be back here in as little as two days with a suitable person --"
	"I could use another wizard," said the cold voice softly, "that is true..."
	"My Lord, it makes sense," said Wormtail, sounding thoroughly relieved now.  "Laying hands on Harry Potter would be so difficult, he is so well protected --"
	"And so you volunteer to go and fetch me a substitute?  I wonder...perhaps the task of nursing me has become wearisome for you, Wormtail?  Could this suggestion of abandoning the plan be nothing more than an attempt to desert me?"
	"My Lord!  I -- I have no wish to leave you, none at all --"
	"Do not lie to me!"  hissed the second voice.  "I can always tell, Wormtail!  You are regretting that you ever returned to me.  I revolt you.  I see you flinch when you look at me, feel you shudder when you touch me..."
	"No!  My devotion to Your Lordship --"
	"Your devotion is nothing more than cowardice.  You would not be here if you had anywhere else to go.  How am I to survive without you, when I need feeding every few hours?  Who is to milk Nagini?"
	"But you seem so much stronger, My Lord --"
	"Liar," breathed the second voice.  "I am no stronger, and a few days alone would be enough to rob me of the little health I have regained under your clumsy care.  Silence!"
	Wormtail, who had been sputtering incoherently, fell silent at once.  For a few seconds, Frank could hear nothing but the fire crackling.  The the second man spoke once more, in a whisper that was almost a hiss.
	"I have my reasons for using the boy, as I have already explained to you, and I will use no other.  I have waited thirteen years.  A few more months will make no difference.  As for the protection surrounding the boy, I believe my plan will be effective.  All that is needed is a little courage from you, Wormtail -- courage you will find, unless you wish to feel the full extent of Lord Voldermort

	
  said Wormtail, panic in his voice now.  
s disappearance will not go unnoticed for long, and if we proceed, if I murder --"
	"If?"  whispered the second voice.  "If?  If you follow the plan, Wormtail, the Ministry need never know that anyone else has died.  You will do it quietly and without fuss; I only wish that i could do it myself, but in my present condition...Come, Wormtail, one more death and our path to Harry Potter is clear.  I am not asking you to do it alone.  By that time, my faithful serant will have rejoined us --"
	"I am a faithful servant,"  said Wormtail, the merest trace of sullenness in his voice.
	"Wormtail, I need somebody with brains, somebody whose loyalty has never wavered, and you, unfortunately, fulfill neither requirement."
	"I found you," said Wormtail, and there was definitely a sulky edge to his voice now.  "I was the one who found you.  I brought you Bertha Jorkins."
	"That is true," said the second man, sounding amused.  "A stroke of brilliance I would not have thought possible from you, Wormtail -- though, if truth be told, you were not aware how useful she would be when you caught her, were you?"
	"I -- I thought she might be useful, My Lord --"
	"Liar," said the second voice again, the cruel amusement more pronounced than ever.  "However, I do not deny that her information was invaluable.  Without it, I could never have formed our plan, and for that, you will have your reward, Wormtail.  I will allow you to perform an essential task for me, one that many of my followers would give their right hands to perform..."
	"R-really, My Lord?  What -- ?"  Wormtail sounded terrified again.
	"Ah, Wormtail, you don

	
  Wormtail's voice suddenly sounded hoarse, as though his mouth had gone very dry.  

	
 said the cold voice silkily, 

	Wormtail muttered something so quietly that Frank could not hear it, but it made the second man laugh -- an entirely mirthless laugh, cold as his speech.
	

	Out in the corridor, Frank suddenly became aware that the hand gripping his walking stick was slippery with sweat.  The man with the cold voice had killed a woman.  He was talking about it without any kind of remorse -- with amusement.  He was dangerous -- a madman.  And he was planning more murders -- this boy, Harry Potter, whoever he was -- was in danger --
	Frank knew what he must do.  Now, if ever, was the time to go to the police.  He would creep out of the house and head straight for the telephone box in the village...but the cold voice was speaking again, and Frank remained where he was, frozen to the spot, listening with all his might.
	

	And the second man's voice changed.  He started making noises such as Frank had never heard before; he was hissing and spitting without drawing breath.  Frank thought he must be having some sort of fit or seizure.
	And then Frank heard movement behind him in the dark passageway.  He turned to look, and found himself paralyzed with fright.
	Something was slithering toward him along the dark corridor floor, and as it drew nearer to the sliver of firelight, he realized with a thrill of terror that it was a gigantic snake, at least twelve feet long.  Horrified, transfixed, Frank stared as its undulating body cut a wide, curving track through the thick dust on the floor, coming closer and closer -- What was he to do?  The only means of escape was into the room where the two men sat plotting murder, yet if he stayed where he was the snake would surely kill him --
	But before he had made his decision, the snake was level with him, and then, incredibly, miraculously, it was passing; it was following the spitting, hissing noises made by the cold voice beyond the door, and in seconds, the tip of its diamond-patterned tail had vanished through the gap.
	There was sweat on Frank's forehead now, and the hand on the walking stick was trembling.  Inside the room, the cold voice was continuing to hiss, and Frank was visited by a strange idea, an impossible idea...This man could talk to snakes.
	Frank didn't understand what was going on.  He wanted more than anything to be back in his bed with his hot-water bottle.  The problem was that his legs didn't seem to want to move.  As he stood there shaking and trying to master himself, the cold voice switched abruptly to English again.
	
 it said.
	
  said Wormtail.
	
 said the voice, 

	Frank didn't have a chance to hide himself.  There were footsteps and then the door of the room was flung wide open.
	A short, balding man with graying hair, a pointed nose, and small, watery eyes stood before Frank, a mixture of fear and alarm in his face.
	

	The cold voice was coming from the ancient armchair before the fire, but Frank couldn't see the speaker.  the snake, on the other hand, was curled up on the rotting hearth rug, like some horrible travesty of a pet dog.
	Wormtail beckoned Frank into the room.  Though still deeply shaken, Frank took a firmer grip on his walking stick and limped over the threshold.
	The fire was the only source of light in the room; it cast long, spidery shadows upon the walls.  Frank stared at the back of the armchair; the man inside it seemed to be even smaller than his servant, for Frank couldn't even see the back of his head.
	
  said the cold voice.
	
s that you
  said Frank defiantly, for now that he was inside the room, now that the time had come for some sort of action, he felt braver; it had always been so in the war.
	
 said the voice coolly.  

	
t know what you mean by wizard," said Frank, his voice growing steadier.  "All I know is I
ve done murder and you
ll tell youthis too," he added, on a sudden inspiration, "my wife knows I
t come back --"
	"You have no wife," said te cold voice, very quietly.  "Nobody knows you are here.  You told nobody that you were coming.  Do not lie to Lord Voldemort, Muggle, for he knows...he always knows..."
	"Is that right?"  said Frank roughly.  "Lord, is it?  Well, I don
round and face me like a man, why don

	
 said the cold voice, barely audible now over the crackling of the flames.  

	The servant gave a whimper.
	

	Slowly, with his face screwed up, as though he would rather have done anything than approach his master and the hearth rug where the snake lay, the small man walked forward and began to turn the chair.  The snake lifted its ugly triangular head and hissed slightly as the legs of the chair snagged on its rug.
	And then the chair was facing Frank, and he saw what was sitting in it.  His walking stick fell to the floor with a clatter.  He opened his mouth and let out a scream.  He was screaming so loudly that he never heard the words the thing in the chair spoke as it raised a wand.  There was a flash of green light, a rushing sound, and Frank Bryce crumpled.  He was dead before he hit the floor.
	Two hundred miles away, the boy called Harry Potter woke with a start.

CHAPTER TWO - THE SCAR

	Harry lay flat on his back, breathing hard as though he had been running.  He had awoken from a vivid dream with his hands pressed over his face.  The old scar on his forehead, which was shaped like a bolt of lightning, was burning beneath his fingers as though someone had just pressed a white-hot wire to his skin.
	He sat up, one hand still on his scar, the other hand reaching out in the darkness for his glasses, which were on the bedside table.  He put them on and his bedroom came into clearer focus, lit by a faint, misty orange light that was filtering through the curtains from the street lamp outside the window.
	Harry ran his fingers over the scar again.  It was still painful.  He turned on the lamp beside him, scrambled out of bed, crossed the room, opened his wardrobe, and peered into the mirror on the inside of the door.  A skinny boy of fourteen looked back at him, his bright green eyes puzzled under his untidy black hair.  He examined the lightning-bolt scar of his reflection more closely.  It looked normal, but it was still stinging.
	harry tried to recall what he had been dreaming about before he had awoken.  It had seemed so real...There had been two people he knew and one he didn't ...He concentrated hard, frowning, trying to remember...
	The dim picture of a darkened room came to him...There had been a snake on a hearth rug...a small man called Peter, nicknamed Wormtail...and a cold, high voice...the voice of Lord Voldemort.  Harry felt as though an ice cube had slipped down into his stomach at the very thought...
	He closed his eyes tightly and tried to remember what Voldemort had looked like, but it was impossible...All Harry knew was that at the moment when Voldemort's chair had swung around, and he, Harry, had seen what was sitting in it, he had felt a spasm of horror, which had awoken him...or had that been the pain in his scar?
	And who had the old man been?  For there had definitely been an old man; Harry had watched him fall to the ground.  It was all becoming confused.  Harry put his face into his hands, blocking out his bedroom, trying to hold on to the picture of that dimly lit room, but it was like trying to keep water in his cupped hands; the details were now trickling away as fast as he tried to hold on to them...Voldemort and Wormtail had been talking about someone they had killed, though Harry could not remember the name...and they had been plotting to kill someone else...him!
	Harry took his face out of his hands, opened his eyes, and stared around his bedroom as though expecting to see something unusual there.  As it happened, there was an extraordinary number of unusual things in this room.  A large wooden trunk stood open at the foot of his bed, revealing a cauldron, broomstick, black robes, and assorted spellbooks.  Rolls of parchment littered that part of his desk that was not taken up by the large, empty cage in which his snowy owl, Hedwig, usually perched.  On the floor beside his bed a book lay open; Harry had been reading it before he fell asleep last night.  The pictures in this book were all moving.  Men in bright orange robes were zooming in and out of sight on broomsticks, throwing a red ball to one another.
	Harry walked over to the book, picked it up, and watched on of the wizards score a spectacular goal by putting the ball through a fifty-foot-high hoop.  Then he snapped the book shut.  Even Quidditch -- in Harry's opinion, the best sport in the world -- couldn't distract him at the moment.  He placed Flying with the Cannons on his bedside table, crossed to the window, and drew back the curtains to survey the street below.
	Privet Drive looked exactly as a respectable suburban street would be expected to look inthe early hours of Saturday morning.  All the curtains were closed.  As far as Harry could see through the darkness, there wasn't a living creature in sight, not even a cat.
	And yet...and yet...Harry went restlessly back to the bed and sat down on it, running a finger over his scar again.  It wasn't the pain that bothered him; Harry was no stranger to pain and injury.  He had lost all the bones from his right arm once and had them painfully regrown in a night.  The same arm had been pierced by a venemous foot-long fang not long afterward.  Only last year Harry had fallen fifty feet from an airborn broomstick.  He was used to bizarre accidents and injuries; they were unavoidable if you attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and had a knack for attracting a lot of trouble.
	No, the thing that was bothering Harry was the last time his scar had hurt him, it had been because Voldemort had been close by...But Voldemort couldn't be here, now...The idea of Voldemort lurking in Privet Drive was absurd, impossible...
	Harry listened closely to the silence around him.  Was he half expecting to hear the creak of a stair or the swish of a cloak?  And then he jumped slightly as he heard his cousin Dudley give a tremendous grunting snore from the next room.
	Harry shook himself mentally; he was being stupid.  There was no one in the house with him except Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia, and Dudley, and they were plainly still asleep, their dreams untroubled and painless.
	Asleep was the way Harry liked the Dursleys best; it wasn't as though they were ever any help to him awake.  Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia, and Dudley were Harry's only living relatives.  They were Muggles who hated and despised magic in any form, which meant that Harry was about as welcome in their house as dry rot.  They had explained away Harry's long absences at Hogwarts over the last three years by telling everyone that he went to St. Brutus's Secure Center for Incurably Criminal Boys.  They knew perfectly well that, as an underage wizard, Harry wasn't allowed to use magic outside Hogwarts, but they were still apt to blame him for anything that went wrong about the house.  Harry had never been able to confide in them or tell them anything about his life in the wizarding world.  The very idea of going to them when they awoke, and telling them about his scar hurting him, and about his worries about Voldemort, was laughable.
	And yet it was because of Voldemort that Harry had come to live with the Dursleys in the first place.  If it hadn't been for Voldemort, Harry would not have had the lightning scar on his forehead.  If it hadn't been for Voldemort, Harry would still have had parents...
	Harry had been a year old the night that Voldemort -- the most powerful Dark wizard for a century, a wizard who had been gaining power steadily for eleven years -- arrived at his house and killed his father and mother.  Voldemort had then turned his wand on Harry; he had performed the curse that had disposed of many full-grown witches and wizards in his steady rise to power -- and, incredibly, it had not worked.  Instead of killing the small boy, the curse had rebounded upon Voldemort.  Harry had survived with nothing but a lightning-shaped cut on his forehead, and Voldemort had been reduced to something barely alive.  His powers gone, his life almost extinguished, Voldemort had fled; the terror in which the secret community of witches and wizards had lived for so long had lifted, Voldemort's followers had disbanded, and Harry Potter had become famous.
	It had been enough of a shock for Harry to discover, on his eleventh birthday, that he was a wizard; it had been even more disconcerting to find out that everyone in the hidden wizarding world knew his name.  Harry had arrived at Hogwarts to find that heads turned and whispers followed him wherever he went.  But he was used to it now:  At the end of this summer, he would be starting his fourth year at Hogwarts, and Harry was already counting the days until he would be back at the castle again.
	But there was still a fortnight to go before he went back to school.  He looked hopelessly around his room again, and his eye paused on the birthday cards his two best friends had sent him at the end of July.  What would they say if Harry wrote to them and told them about his scar hurting?
	At once, Hermione Granger's voice seemed to fill his head, shrill and panicky.
	
s really serious.... Write to Professor Dumbledore! And I
s something in there about curse scars. . . ."
	Yes, that would be Hermione
s; it was highly unlikely, therefore, that he would find his symptoms listed in Common Magical Ailments and Afflictions.  As for informing the headmaster, Harry had no idea where Dumbledore went during the summer holidays.  He amused himself for a moment, picturing Dumbledore, with his long silver beard, full length wizard
s owl had never yet failed to deliver a letter to anyone, even without an address.  But what would he write?
	Dear Professor Dumbledore, Sorry to bother you, but my scar hurt this morning.  Yours sincerely, Harry Potter.
	Even inside his head the words sounded stupid.
	And so he tried to imagine his other best friend, Ron Weasley
s red hair and long-nosed, freckled face seemed to swim before Harry, wearing a bemused expression.
	"Your scar hurt? But ... but You-Know-Who can
d know, wouldn
d be trying to do you in again, wouldn
ll ask Dad. . . ."
	Mr. Weasley was a fully qualified wizard who worked in the Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office at the Ministry of Magic, but he didn
t like the idea of the whole Weasley family knowing that he, Harry, was getting jumpy about a few moments
s sixteen- year-old twin brothers, might think Harry was losing his nerve.  The Weasleys were Harry
t want his visit punctuated with anxious inquiries about his scar.
	Harry kneaded his forehead with his knuckles. What he really wanted (and it felt almost shameful to admit it to himself) was someone like - someone like a parent: an adult wizard whose advice he could ask without feeling stupid, someone who cared about him, who had had experience with Dark Magic....
	And then the solution came to him. It was so simple, and so obvious, that he couldn
t thought of Sirius straight away.  But then, perhaps it wasn
s complete absence from Harry
s supporter, whom nearly everybody now believed dead.  Harry, Ron, and Hermione knew otherwise, however; they had come face-to-face with Wormtail only the previous year, though only Professor Dumbledore had believed their story.
	For one glorious hour, Harry had believed that he was leaving the Dursleys at last, because Sirius had offered him a home once his name had been cleared.  But the chance had been snatched away from him - Wormtail had escaped before they could take him to the Ministry of Magic, and Sirius had had to flee for his life.  Harry had helped him escape on the back of a hippogriff called Buckbeak, and since then, Sirius had been on the run.  The home Harry might have had if Wormtail had not escaped had been haunting him all summer.  It had been doubly hard to return to the Dursleys knowing that he had so nearly escaped them forever.
	Nevertheless, Sirius had been of some help to Harry, even if he couldn
s letters, which were now hidden beneath the highly useful loose floorboards under Harry
s lamp seemed to grow dimmer as the cold gray light that precedes sunrise slowly crept into the room. Finally, when the sun had risen, when his bedroom walls had turned gold, and when sounds of movement could be heard from Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia
s diet isn
d have to cut his pocket money if he keeps doing it, so he got really angry and chucked his PlayStation out of the window. That
t even got Mega-Mutilation Part Three to take his mind off things.
	I
t reckon he can be anywhere near me now, can he? Do you know if curse scars sometimes hurt years afterward?
	I
s off hunting at the moment. Say hello to Buckbeak for me. Harry

Yes, thought Harry, that looked all right.  There was no point putting in the dream; he didn
s large red face was hidden behind the morning
s plate with a tremulous "There you are, Diddy darling," Dudley glowered at her.  His life had taken a most unpleasant turn since he had come home for the summer with his end-of-year report.
            Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia had managed to find excuses for his bad marks as usual:  Aunt Petunia always insisted that Dudley was a very gifted boy whose teachers didn
he didn't want some swotty little nancy boy for a son anyway.
He's a boisterous little boy, but he wouldn't hurt a fly!
t stock knickerbockers big enough for him anymore.  The school nurse had seen what Aunt Petunia
s bedroom floor, and many tears from Aunt Petunia - the new regime had begun.  The diet sheet that had been sent by the Smeltings school nurse had been taped to the fridge, which had been emptied of all Dudley
rabbit food.
s.  Aunt Petunia seemed to feet that the best way to keep up Dudley
t know what was hidden under the loose floorboard upstairs.  She had no idea that Harry was not following the diet at all.  The moment he had got wind of the fact that he was expected to survive the summer on carrot sticks, Harry had sent Hedwig to his friends with pleas for help, and they had risen to the occasion magnificently.  Hedwig had returned from Hermione
s parents were dentists.)  Hagrid, the Hogwarts gamekeeper, had obliged with a sack full of his own homemade rock cakes.  (Harry hadn
s cooking.)  Mrs. Weasley, however, had sent the family owl, Errol, with an enormous fruitcake and assorted meat pies.  Poor Errol, who was elderly and feeble, had needed a full five days to recover from the journey.  And then on Harry
Is this it?
s with a very sour look in his piggy little eyes.
Uncle Vernon gave a great sigh, which ruffled his large, bushy mustache, and picked up his spoon.
The doorbell rang.  Uncle Vernon heaved himself out of his chair and set off down the hall.  Quick as a flash, while his mother was occupied with the kettle, Dudley stole the rest of Uncle Vernon
t have to wait long to find out; after about a minute, he was back.  He looked livid.
"You," he barked at Harry.  "In the living room.  Now."
Bewildered, wondering what on earth he was supposed to have done this time, Harry got up and followed Uncle Vernon out of the kitchen and into the next room.  Uncle Vernon closed the door sharply behind both of them.
"So," he said, marching over to the fireplace and turning to face Harry as though he were about to pronounce him under arrest.  "So."
Harry would have dearly loved to have said, "So what?" but he didn
s temper should be tested this early in the morning, especially when it was already under severe strain from lack of food.  He therefore settled for looking politely puzzled.
"This just arrived," said Uncle Vernon.  He brandished a piece of purple writing paper at Harry.  "A letter.  About you."
Harry
t hosted the cup for thirty years, and tickets are extremely hard to come by.  We would of course be glad to have Harry stay for the remainder of the summer holidays, and to see him safely onto the train back to school.
It would be best for Harry to send us your answer as quickly as possible in the normal way, because the Muggle postman has never delivered to our house, and I am not sure he even knows where it is.
Hoping to see Harry soon,
Yours sincerely,
Molly Weasley

P.S.  I do hope we
Look at this,
s letter had come, and Harry had to fight down a laugh.  Every bit of it was covered in stamps except for a square inch on the front, into which Mrs. Weasley had squeezed the Dursleys
She did put enough stamps on, then,
s was a mistake anyone could make.  His uncle
The postman noticed,
Very interested to know where this letter came from, he was.  That's why he rang the doorbell.  Seemed to think it was funny.
t say anything.  Other people might not understand why Uncle Vernon was making a fuss about too many stamps, but Harry had lived with the Dursleys too long not to know how touchy they were about anything even slightly out of the ordinary.  Their worst fear was that someone would find out that they were connected (however distantly) with people like Mrs. Weasley.
Uncle Vernon was still glaring at Harry, who tried to keep his expression neutral.  If he didn
So - can I go then?
s large purple face.  The mustache bristled. Harry thought he knew what was going on behind the mustache: a furious battle as two of Uncle Vernon
 for the rest of the summer would get rid of him two weeks earlier than anyone could have hoped, and Uncle Vernon hated having Harry in the house.  To give himself thinking time, it seemed, he looked down at Mrs. Weasley
Who is this woman?
You've seen her,
She's my friend Ron's mother, she was meeting him off the Hog - off the school train at the end of last term.
Hogwarts Express,
s temper up.  Nobody ever mentioned the name of Harry
Dumpy sort of woman?
Load of children with red hair?
dumpy,
d been threatening to do since the age of three, and become wider than he was tall.
Uncle Vernon was perusing the letter again.
"Quidditch," he muttered under his breath. "Quidditch - what is this rubbish?"
Harry felt a second stab of annoyance.
"It
 he said shortly. 


  said Uncle Vernon loudly.  Harry saw, with some satisfaction, that his uncle looked vaguely panicky.  Apparently his nerves couldn't stand the sound of the word 
 in his living room.  He took refuge in perusing the letter again.  Harry saw his lips form the words 
  He scowled.

the normal way
  he spat.

 said Harry, and before his uncle could stop him, he added, 
s what

Uncle Vernon looked as outraged as if Harry had just uttered a disgusting swearword. Shaking with anger, he shot a nervous look through the window, as though expecting to see some of the neighbors with their ears pressed against the glass.

  he hissed, his face now a rich plum color.  


 said Harry coldly, and indeed, he was dressed in a sweatshirt so large for him that he had had to roll back the sleeves five times so as to be able to use his hands, and which fell past the knees of his extremely baggy jeans.

  said Uncle Vernon, trembling with rage.
But Harry wasn't going to stand for this.  Gone were the days when he had been forced to take every single one of the Dursleys' stupid rules.  He wasn't following Dudley's diet, and he wasn't going to let Uncle Vernon stop him from going to the Quidditch World Cup, not if he could help it.  Harry took a deep, steadying breath and then said, 
t see the World Cup.  Can I go now, then?  Only I

He had done it, he had said the magic words.  Now he watched the purple recede blotchily from Uncle Vernon's face, making it look like badly mixed black currant ice cream.

re - you
  said Uncle Vernon, in a would-be calm voice - but Harry had seen the pupils of his tiny eyes contract with sudden fear.

 said Harry, casually.  
s been a while since he heard from me, and, you know, if he doesn
s wrong."
He stopped there to enjoy the effect of these words.  He could almost see the cogs working under Uncle Vernon
t go to the Quidditch World Cup, Harry would write and tell Sirius, who would know Harry was being mistreated.  There was only one thing for Uncle Vernon to do.  Harry could see the conclusion forming in his uncle
Well, all right then.  You can go to this ruddy ... this stupid ... this World Cup thing. You write and tell these - these Weasleys they're to pick you up, mind.  I haven't got time to go dropping you off all over the country.  And you can spend the rest of the summer there.  And you can tell your - your godfather ... tell him ... tell him you're going.
Okay then,
, he was going to watch the Quidditch World Cup!
Outside in the hall he nearly ran into Dudley, who had been lurking behind the door, clearly hoping to overhear Harry being told off.  He looked shocked to see the broad grin on Harry
That was an excellent breakfast, wasn't it?
I feel really full, don't you?
s face, Harry took the stairs three at a time, and hurled himself back into his bedroom.
The first thing he saw was that Hedwig was back.  She was sitting in her cage, staring at Harry with her enormous amber eyes, and clicking her beak in the way that meant she was annoyed about something.  Exactly what was annoying her became apparent almost at once.
"OUCH!" said Harry as what appeared to be a small, gray, feathery tennis ball collided with the side of his head.  Harry massaged the spot furiously, looking up to see what had hit him, and saw a minute owl, small enough to fit into the palm of his hand, whizzing excitedly around the room like a loose firework.  Harry then realized that the owl had dropped a letter at his feet.  Harry bent down, recognized Ron
s writing to the Muggles to ask you to stay.  They might already have the letter, I don
d send this with Pig anyway.

Harry stared at the word "Pig," then looked up at the tiny owl now zooming around the light fixture on the ceiling.  He had never seen anything that looked less like a pig.  Maybe he couldn
s writing.  He went back to the letter:

We
t miss the World Cup, only Mum and Dad reckon it
ll come and get you at five o
ll come and get you at five o
s arriving this afternoon.  Percy
t mention anything about Abroad while you
Calm down!
Come here, I need you to take my answer back!
s cage.  Hedwig looked coldly up at it, as though daring it to try and come any closer.
Harry seized his eagle-feather quill once more, grabbed a fresh piece of parchment, and wrote:

Ron, it
clock tomorrow. Can
s leg as it hopped on the spot with excitement.  The moment the note was secure, the owl was off again; it zoomed out of the window and out of sight.
Harry turned to Hedwig.
"Feeling up to a long journey?" he asked her.
Hedwig hooted in a dignified sort of a way.
"Can you take this to Sirius for me?" he said, picking up his letter. "Hang on ... I just want to finish it."
He unfolded the parchment and hastily added a postscript.

If you want to contact me, I
s for the rest of the summer. His dad
s leg; she kept unusually still, as though determined to show him how a real post owl should behave.
"I
s when you get back, all right?" Harry told her.
She nipped his finger affectionately, then, with a soft swooshing noise, spread her enormous wings and soared out of the open window.
Harry watched her out of sight, then crawled under his bed, wrenched up the loose floorboard, and pulled out a large chunk of birthday cake.  He sat there on the floor eating it, savoring the happiness that was flooding through him.  He had cake, and Dudley had nothing but grapefruit; it was a bright summer
clock the next day, Harry
clock the very next day.
"I hope you told them to dress properly, these people," he snarled at once.  "I
d better have the decency to put on normal clothes, that

Harry felt a slight sense of foreboding. He had rarely seen Mr. or Mrs. Weasley wearing anything that the Dursleys would call 
  Their children might don Muggle clothing during the holidays, but Mr. and Mrs. Weasley usually wore long robes in varying states of shabbiness.  Harry wasn't bothered about what the neighbors would think, but he was anxious about how rude the Dursleys might be to the Weasleys if they turned up looking like their worst idea of wizards.
Uncle Vernon had put on his best suit.  To some people, this might have looked like a gesture of welcome, but Harry knew it was because Uncle Vernon wanted to look impressive and intimidating.  Dudley, on the other hand, looked somehow diminished.  This was not because the diet was at last taking effect, but due to fright.  Dudley had emerged from his last encounter with a fully grown wizard with a curly pig's tail poking out of the seat of his trousers, and Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon had had to pay for its removal at a private hospital in London.  It wasn't altogether surprising, therefore, that Dudley kept running his hand nervously over his backside, and walking sideways from room to room, so as not to present the same target to the enemy.
Lunch was an almost silent meal.  Dudley didn't even protest at the food (cottage cheese and grated celery).  Aunt Petunia wasn't, eating anything at all.  Her arms were folded, her lips were pursed, and she seemed to be chewing her tongue, as though biting back the furious diatribe she longed to throw at Harry.

ll be driving, of course?" Uncle Vernon barked across the table.
"Er," said Harry.
He hadn
t have a car anymore; the old Ford Anglia they had once owned was currently running wild in the Forbidden Forest at Hogwarts.  But Mr. Weasley had borrowed a Ministry of Magic car last year; possibly he would do the same today?
"I think so," said Harry.
Uncle Vernon snorted into his mustache.  Normally, Uncle Vernon would have asked what car Mr. Weasley drove; he tended to judge other men by how big and expensive their cars were.  But Harry doubted whether Uncle Vernon would have taken to Mr. Weasley even if he drove a Ferrari.
Harry spent most of the afternoon in his bedroom; he couldn
t take the tension; he left the room and went and sat on the stairs in the hall, his eyes on his watch and his heart pumping fast from excitement and nerves.
But five o
They're late!
 said Harry.  
s bad, or something."
Ten past five ... then a quarter past five ... Harry was starting to feel anxious himself now.  At half past, he heard Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia conversing in terse mutters in the living room.
"No consideration at all."
"We might


ll get invited to dinner if they


t be," said Uncle Vernon, and Harry heard him stand up and start pacing the living room.  "They
ll be no hanging around. That
re coming at all.  Probably mistaken the day.  I daresay their kind don
s broken d- AAAAAAAARRRRRGH!"
Harry jumped up.  From the other side of the living room door came the sounds of the three Dursleys scrambling, panic-stricken, across the room.  Next moment Dudley came flying into the hall, looking terrified.
"What happened?" said Harry.  "What

But Dudley didn't seem able to speak.  Hands still clamped over his buttocks, he waddled as fast as he could into the kitchen.  Harry hurried into the living room.
Loud bangings and scrapings were coming from behind the Dursleys' boarded-up fireplace, which had a fake coal fire plugged in front of it.

 gasped Aunt Petunia, who had backed into the wall and was staring, terrified, toward the fire.  

But they were left in doubt barely a second longer.  Voices could be heard from inside the blocked fireplace.

s been some kind of mistake - tell George not to - OUCH! George, no, there


ll be able to let us out-"
There was a loud hammering of fists on the boards behind the electric fire.
"Harry? Harry, can you hear us?"
The Dursleys rounded on Harry like a pair of angry wolverines.
"What is this?" growled Uncle Vernon. "What


ve tried to get here by Floo powder," said Harry, fighting a mad desire to laugh.  "They can travel by fire - only you

He approached the fireplace and called through the boards.


The hammering stopped.  Somebody inside the chimney piece said, 


s Harry ... the fireplace has been blocked up.  You won


 said Mr. Weasley's voice.  


ve got an electric fire," Harry explained.
"Really?" said Mr. Weasley
Eclectic, you say?  With a plug? Gracious, I must see that.... Let's think ... ouch, Ron!
s voice now joined the others
What are we doing here?  Has something gone wrong?
Oh no, Ron,
s voice, very sarcastically.  "No, this is exactly where we wanted to end up."
"Yeah, we
 said George, whose voice sounded muffled, as though he was squashed against the wall.

 said Mr. Weasley vaguely.  
m trying to think what to do.... Yes ... only way. . . Stand back, Harry."
Harry retreated to the sofa.  Uncle Vernon, however, moved forward.
"Wait a moment!" he bellowed at the fire.  "What exactly are you going to -"
BANG.
The electric fire shot across the room as the boarded-up fireplace burst outward, expelling Mr. Weasley, Fred, George, and Ron in a cloud of rubble and loose chippings.  Aunt Petunia shrieked and fell backward over the coffee table; Uncle Vernon caught her before she hit the floor, and gaped, speechless, at the Weasleys, all of whom had bright red hair, including Fred and George, who were identical to the last freckle.
"That
 panted Mr. Weasley, brushing dust from his long green robes and straightening his glasses.  
s aunt and uncle!"
Tall, thin, and balding, he moved toward Uncle Vernon, his hand outstretched, but Uncle Vernon backed away several paces, dragging Aunt Petunia.  Words utterly failed Uncle Vernon.  His best suit was covered in white dust, which had settled in his hair and mustache and made him look as though he had just aged thirty years.
"Er - yes - sorry about that," said Mr. Weasley, lowering his hand and looking over his shoulder at the blasted fireplace.  "It
t occur to me that we wouldn
t supposed to be connected, strictly speaking - but I
t worry.  I

Harry was ready to bet that the Dursleys hadn't understood a single word of this.  They were still gaping at Mr. Weasley, thunderstruck.  Aunt Petunia staggered upright again and hid behind Uncle Vernon.

 said Mr. Weasley brightly.  


s upstairs," said Harry, grinning back.
"We
 said Fred at once.  Winking at Harry, he and George left the room.  They knew where Harry's bedroom was, having once rescued him from it in the dead of night.  Harry suspected that Fred and George were hoping for a glimpse of Dudley; they had heard a lot about him from Harry.

 said Mr. Weasley, swinging his arms slightly, while he tried to find words to break the very nasty silence.  
ve got here."
As the usually spotless living room was now covered in dust and bits of brick, this remark didn
s face purpled once more, and Aunt Petunia started chewing her tongue again.  However, they seemed too scared to actually say anything.
Mr. Weasley was looking around.  He loved everything to do with Muggles.  Harry could see him itching to go and examine the television and the video recorder.
"They run off eckeltricity, do they?" he said knowledgeably. "Ah yes, I can see the plugs. I collect plugs," he added to Uncle Vernon. "And batteries. Got a very large collection of batteries. My wife thinks I

Uncle Vernon clearly thought Mr. Weasley was mad too.  He moved ever so slightly to the right, screening Aunt Petunia from view, as though he thought Mr. Weasley might suddenly run at them and attack.
Dudley suddenly reappeared in the room.  Harry could hear the clunk of his trunk on the stairs, and knew that the sounds had scared Dudley out of the kitchen.  Dudley edged along the wall, gazing at Mr. Weasley with terrified eyes, and attempted to conceal himself behind his mother and father.  Unfortunately, Uncle Vernon's bulk, while sufficient to hide bony Aunt Petunia, was nowhere near enough to conceal Dudley.

 said Mr. Weasley, taking another brave stab at making conversation.

 said Harry, 
s Dudley."
He and Ron exchanged glances and then quickly looked away from each other; the temptation to burst out laughing was almost overwhelming.  Dudley was still clutching his bottom as though afraid it might fall off.  Mr. Weasley, however, seemed genuinely concerned at Dudley
Having a good holiday, Dudley?
s school trunk.  They glanced around as they entered and spotted Dudley.  Their faces cracked into identical evil grins.
"Ah, right," said Mr. Weasley.  "Better get cracking then."
He pushed up the sleeves of his robes and took out his wand.  Harry saw the Dursleys draw back against the wall as one.
"Incendio!" said Mr. Weasley, pointing his wand at the hole in the wall behind him.
Flames rose at once in the fireplace, crackling merrily as though they had been burning for hours.  Mr. Weasley took a small drawstring bag from his pocket, untied it, took a pinch of the powder inside, and threw it onto the flames, which turned emerald green and roared higher than ever.
"Off you go then, Fred," said Mr. Weasley.
"Coming," said Fred.  "Oh no - hang on -"
A bag of sweets had spilled out of Fred
the Burrow!
Right then, George,
you and the trunk.
the Burrow!
Ron, you next,
See you,
the Burrow!
Well . . . 'bye then,
t say anything at all.  Harry moved toward the fire, but just as he reached the edge of the hearth, Mr. Weasley put out a hand and held him back.  He was looking at the Dursleys in amazement.
"Harry said good-bye to you," he said. "Didn


t matter," Harry muttered to Mr. Weasley.  "Honestly, I don

Mr. Weasley did not remove his hand from Harry's shoulder.

t going to see your nephew till next summer," he said to Uncle Vernon in mild indignation.  "Surely you

Uncle Vernon's face worked furiously.  The idea of being taught consideration by a man who had just blasted away half his living room wall seemed to be causing him intense suffering. But Mr. Weasley's wand was still in his hand, and Uncle Vernon's tiny eyes darted to it once, before he said, very resentfully, 


 said Harry, putting one foot forward into the green flames, which felt pleasantly like warm breath.  At that moment, however, a horrible gagging sound erupted behind him, and Aunt Petunia started to scream.
Harry wheeled around. Dudley was no longer standing behind his parents. He was kneeling beside the coffee table, and he was gagging and sputtering on a foot-long, purple, slimy thing that was protruding from his mouth.  One bewildered second later, Harry realized that the foot-long thing was Dudley's tongue - and that a brightly colored toffee wrapper lay on the floor before him.
Aunt Petunia hurled herself onto the ground beside Dudley, seized the end of his swollen tongue, and attempted to wrench it out of his mouth; unsurprisingly, Dudley yelled and sputtered worse than ever, trying to fight her off. Uncle Vernon was bellowing and waving his arms around, and Mr. Weasley had to shout to make himself heard.

  he yelled, advancing on Dudley with his wand outstretched, but Aunt Petunia screamed worse than ever and threw herself on top of Dudley, shielding him from Mr. Weasley.

 said Mr. Weasley desperately.  
s a simple process it was the toffee - my son Fred - real practical joker - but it

But far from being reassured, the Dursleys became more panic- stricken; Aunt Petunia was sobbing hysterically, tugging Dudley's tongue as though determined to rip it out; Dudley appeared to be suffocating under the combined pressure of his mother and his tongue; and Uncle Vernon, who had lost control completely, seized a china figure from on top of the sideboard and threw it very hard at Mr. Weasley, who ducked, causing the ornament to shatter in the blasted fireplace.

 said Mr. Weasley angrily, brandishing his wand.  
m trying to help!"
Bellowing like a wounded hippo, Uncle Vernon snatched up another ornament.
"Harry, go! Just go!"  Mr. Weasley shouted, his wand on Uncle Vernon.  "I

Harry didn't want to miss the fun, but Uncle Vernon's second ornament narrowly missed his left ear, and on balance he thought it best to leave the situation to Mr. Weasley.  He stepped into the fire, looking over his shoulder as he said 
  His last fleeting glimpse of the living room was of Mr. Weasley blasting a third ornament out of Uncle Vernon's hand with his wand, Aunt Petunia screaming and lying on top of Dudley, and Dudley's tongue lolling around like a great slimy python.  But next moment Harry had begun to spin very fast, and the Dursleys' living room was whipped out of sight in a rush of emerald-green flames.

CHAPTER FIVE - WEASLEYS' WIZARD WHEEZES

Harry spun faster and faster, elbows tucked tightly to his sides, blurred fireplaces flashing past him, until he started to feel sick and closed his eyes.  Then, when at last he felt himself slowing down, he threw out his hands and came to a halt in time to prevent himself from falling face forward out of the Weasleys' kitchen fire.

 said Fred excitedly, holding out a hand to pull Harry to his fee

 said Harry, straightening up.  


 said Fred brightly.  
ve been looking for someone to test them on all summer. . . ."
The tiny kitchen exploded with laughter; Harry looked around and saw that Ron and George were sitting at the scrubbed wooden table with two red-haired people Harry had never seen before, though he knew immediately who they must be: Bill and Charlie, the two eldest Weasley brothers.
"How
 said the nearer of the two, grinning at him and holding out a large hand, which Harry shook, feeling calluses and blisters under his fingers.  This had to be Charlie, who worked with dragons in Romania.  Charlie was built like the twins, shorter and stockier than Percy and Ron, who were both long and lanky.  He had a broad, good-natured face, which was weather-beaten and so freckly that he looked almost tanned; his arms were muscular, and one of them had a large, shiny burn on it.
Bill got to his feet, smiling, and also shook Harry's hand.  Bill came as something of a surprise.  Harry knew that he worked for the wizarding bank, Gringotts, and that Bill had been Head Boy at Hogwarts; Harry had always imagined Bill to be an older version of Percy:  fussy about rule-breaking and fond of bossing everyone around.  However, Bill was - there was no other word for it - cool.  He was tall, with long hair that he had tied back in a ponytail.  He was wearing an earring with what looked like a fang dangling from it.  Bill's clothes would not have looked out of place at a rock concert, except that Harry recognized his boots to be made, not of leather, but of dragon hide.
Before any of them could say anything else, there was a faint popping noise, and Mr. Weasley appeared out of thin air at George's shoulder.  He was looking angrier than Harry had ever seen him.

t funny Fred!" he shouted. "What on earth did you give that Muggle boy?"
"I didn
 said Fred, with another evil grin.  I just dropped it.... It was his fault he went and ate it, I never told him to.
You dropped it on purpose!
You knew he'd eat it, you knew he was on a diet -
How big did his tongue get?
It was four feet long before his parents would let me shrink it!
It isn't funny!
That sort of behavior seriously undermines wizard-Muggle relations!  I spend half my life campaigning against the mistreatment of Muggles, and my own sons

t give it to him because he
 said Fred indignantly.

s a great bullying git," said George.  "Isn


 said Harry earnestly.

s not the point!" raged Mr. Weasley.  "You wait until I tell your mother -"
"Tell me what?" said a voice behind them.
Mrs. Weasley had just entered the kitchen.  She was a short, plump woman with a very kind face, though her eyes were presently narrowed with suspicion.
"Oh hello, Harry, dear," she said, spotting him and smiling.  Then her eyes snapped back to her husband. "Tell me what, Arthur?"
Mr. Weasley hesitated.  Harry could tell that, however angry he was with Fred and George, he hadn
s and Ron
s younger sister, Ginny. Both of them smiled at Harry, who grinned back, which made Ginny go scarlet - she had been very taken with Harry ever since his first visit to the Burrow.
"Tell me what, Arthur?"  Mrs. Weasley repeated, in a dangerous sort of voice.
"It
 mumbled Mr. Weasley, 
ve had words with them -"
"What have they done this time?" said Mrs. Weasley.  "If it
 Wizard Wheezes -"
"Why don
s sleeping, Ron?" said Hermione from the doorway.
"He knows where he
 said Ron, 


 said Hermione pointedly.

 said Ron, cottoning on.  


ll come too," said George.
"You stay where you are!" snarled Mrs. Weasley.
Harry and Ron edged out of the kitchen, and they, Hermione, and Ginny set off along the narrow hallway and up the rickety staircase that zigzagged through the house to the upper stories.
"What are Weasleys
 Harry asked as they climbed.
Ron and Ginny both laughed, although Hermione didn't.

s room," said Ron quietly.  "Great long price lists for stuff they
d been inventing all that . . ."
"We
 said Ginny.  


 said Ron, 
t allowed to make any more of it, and burned all the order forms.... She
t get as many O.W.L.s as she expected."
O.W.L.s were Ordinary Wizarding Levels, the examinations Hogwarts students took at the age of fifteen.
"And then there was this big row," Ginny said, "because Mum wants them to go into the Ministry of Magic like Dad, and they told her all they want to do is open a joke shop."
Just then a door on the second landing opened, and a face poked out wearing horn-rimmed glasses and a very annoyed expression.
"Hi, Percy," said Harry.
"Oh hello, Harry," said Percy.  "I was wondering who was making all the noise. I
ve got a report to finish for the office - and it


re not thundering, "said Ron irritably.  "We
ve disturbed the top-secret workings of the Ministry of Magic."
"What are you working on?" said Harry.
"A report for the Department of International Magical Cooperation," said Percy smugly. "We


ll change the world, that report will," said Ron. "Front page of the Daily Prophet, I expect, cauldron leaks."
Percy went slightly pink.
"You might sneer, Ron," he said heatedly, "but unless some sort of international law is imposed we might well find the market flooded with flimsy, shallow-bottomed products that seriously endanger -"
"Yeah, yeah, all right," said Ron, and he started off upstairs again.  Percy slammed his bedroom door shut.  As Harry, Hermione, and Ginny followed Ron up three more flights of stairs, shouts from the kitchen below echoed up to them.  It sounded as though Mr. Weasley had told Mrs. Weasley about the toffees.
The room at the top of the house where Ron slept looked much as it had the last time that Harry had come to stay: the same posters of Ron
s old rat, Scabbers, was here no more, but instead there was the tiny gray owl that had delivered Ron
Shut up, Pig,
Fred and George are in here with us, because Bill and Charlie are in their room,
Percy gets to keep his room all to himself because he's got to work.
Er - why are you calling that owl Pig?
Because he's being stupid,
Its proper name is Pigwidgeon.
Yeah, and that's not a stupid name at all,
Ginny named him,
She reckons it's sweet.  And I tried to change it, but it was too late, he won't answer to anything else.  So now he's Pig.  I've got to keep him up here because he annoys Errol and Hermes.  He annoys me too, come to that.
Pigwidgeon zoomed happily around his cage, hooting shrilly.  Harry knew Ron too well to take him seriously.  He had moaned continually about his old rat, Scabbers, but had been most upset when Hermione's cat, Crookshanks, appeared to have eaten him.

s Crookshanks?" Harry asked Hermione now.
"Out in the garden, I expect," she said. "He likes chasing gnomes.  He


s enjoying work, then?"  said Harry, sitting down on one of the beds and watching the Chudley Cannons zooming in and out of the posters on the ceiling.
"Enjoying it?"  said Ron darkly.  "I don
d come home if Dad didn
s obsessed.  Just don
ll be announcing their engagement any day now."
"Have you had a good summer, Harry?"  said Hermione.  "Did you get our food parcels and everything?"
"Yeah, thanks a lot, " said Harry.  "They saved my life, those cakes.
"And have you heard from -?"  Ron began, but at a look from Hermione he fell silent. Harry knew Ron had been about to ask about Sirius.  Ron and Hermione had been so deeply involved in helping Sirius escape from the Ministry of Magic that they were almost as concerned about Harry
I think they've stopped arguing,
Shall we go down and help your mum with dinner?
Yeah, all right,
s room and went back downstairs to find Mrs. Weasley alone in the kitchen, looking extremely bad-tempered.
"We
 she said when they came in.  
s just not room for eleven people in here.  Could you take the plates outside, girls?  Bill and Charlie are setting up the tables.  Knives and forks, please, you two," she said to Ron and Harry, pointing her wand a little more vigorously than she had intended at a pile of potatoes in the sink, which shot out of their skins so fast that they ricocheted off the walls and ceiling.
"Oh for heaven
 she snapped, now directing her wand at a dustpan, which hopped off the sideboard and started skating across the floor, scooping up the potatoes.  
 she burst out savagely, now pulling pots and pans out of a cupboard, and Harry knew she meant Fred and George.  I don't know what's going to happen to them, I really don't. No ambition, unless you count making as much trouble as they possibly can....
It's not as though they haven't got brains, she continued irritably, taking the saucepan over to the stove and lighting it with a further poke of her wand, 
re wasting them, and unless they pull themselves together soon, they
ve had more owls from Hogwarts about them than the rest put together.  If they carry on the way they
ll end up in front of the Improper Use of Magic Office."
Mrs. Weasley jabbed her wand at the cutlery drawer, which shot open.  Harry and Ron both jumped out of the way as several knives soared out of it, flew across the kitchen, and began chopping the potatoes, which had just been tipped back into the sink by the dustpan.
"I don
 said Mrs. Weasley, putting down her wand and starting to pull out still more saucepans.  
s been the same for years, one thing after another, and they won

She had picked up her wand from the table, and it had emitted a loud squeak and turned into a giant rubber mouse.

 she shouted.  

She grabbed her real wand and turned around to find that the sauce on the stove was smoking.

mon," Ron said hurriedly to Harry, seizing a handful of cutlery from the open drawer, "let

They left Mrs. Weasley and headed out the back door into the yard.
They had only gone a few paces when Hermione's bandy-legged ginger cat, Crookshanks, came pelting out of the garden, bottle-brush tail held high in the air, chasing what looked like a muddy potato on legs.  Harry recognized it instantly as a gnome.  Barely ten inches high, its horny little feet pattered very fast as it sprinted across the yard and dived headlong into one of the Wellington boots that lay scattered around the door.  Harry could hear the gnome giggling madly as Crookshanks inserted a paw into the boot, trying to reach it. Meanwhile, a very loud crashing noise was coming from the other side of the house.  The source of the commotion was revealed as they entered the garden, and saw that Bill and Charlie both had their wands out, and were making two battered old tables fly high above the lawn, smashing into each other, each attempting to knock the other's out of the air.  Fred and George were cheering, Ginny was laughing, and Hermione was hovering near the hedge, apparently torn between amusement and anxiety.
Bill's table caught Charlie's with a huge bang and knocked one of its legs off.  There was a clatter from overhead, and they all looked up to see Percy's head poking out of a window on the second floor.

 he bellowed.

 said Bill, grinning. 
re the cauldron bottoms coming on?"
"Very badly," said Percy peevishly, and he slammed the window shut.  Chuckling, Bill and Charlie directed the tables safely onto the grass, end to end, and then, with a flick of his wand, Bill reattached the table leg and conjured tablecloths from nowhere.
By seven o
s excellent cooking, and the nine Weasleys, Harry, and Hermione were settling themselves down to eat beneath a clear, deep-blue sky.  To somebody who had been living on meals of increasingly stale cake all summer, this was paradise, and at first, Harry listened rather than talked as he helped himself to chicken and ham pie, boiled potatoes, and salad.
At the far end of the table, Percy was telling his father all about his report on cauldron bottoms.
"I
ll have it ready by Tuesday," Percy was saying pompously. "That
ll be grateful I
re just not getting the support we need from the Department of Magical Games and Sports.  Ludo Bagman -"
"I like Ludo," said Mr. Weasley mildly. "He was the one who got us such good tickets for the Cup.  I did him a bit of a favor:  His brother, Otto, got into a spot of trouble - a lawnmower with unnatural powers - I smoothed the whole thing over."
"Oh Bagman
 said Percy dismissively, 
t see Mr. Crouch losing a member of our department and not trying to find out what


 said Mr. Weasley, frowning.  
s gotten lost plenty of times before now - though must say, if it was someone in my department, I


s hopeless, all right," said Percy.  "I hear she
s worth ... but all the same, Bagman ought to be trying to find her.  Mr. Crouch has been taking a personal interest, she worked in our department at one time, you know, and I think Mr. Crouch was quite fond of her - but Bagman just keeps laughing and saying she probably misread the map and ended up in Australia instead of Albania.  However" - Percy heaved an impressive sigh and took a deep swig of elderflower wine - "we
ve got another big event to organize right after the World Cup."
Percy cleared his throat significantly and looked down toward the end of the table where Harry, Ron, and Hermione were sitting.  "You know the one I
 He raised his voice slightly.  

Ron rolled his eyes and muttered to Harry and Hermione, 
s been trying to get us to ask what that event is ever since he started work.  Probably an exhibition of thick-bottomed cauldrons."
In the middle of the table, Mrs. Weasley was arguing with Bill about his earring, which seemed to be a recent acquisition.
". . . with a horrible great fang on it. Really, Bill, what do they say at the bank?"
"Mum,.no one at the bank gives a damn how I dress as long as I bring home plenty of treasure," said Bill patiently.
"And your hair
 said Mrs. Weasley, fingering her wand lovingly.
d let me give it a trim. . . ."
"I like it," said Ginny, who was sitting beside Bill.  "You
s nowhere near as long as Professor Dumbledore

Next to Mrs. Weasley, Fred, George, and Charlie were all talking spiritedly about the World Cup.

s got to be Ireland," said Charlie thickly, through a mouthful of potato.  "They flattened Peru in the semifinals."
"Bulgaria has got Viktor Krum, though," said Fred.
"Krum
 said Charlie shortly.  


 said Harry eagerly, regretting more than ever his isolation from the wizarding world when he was stuck on Privet Drive.

 said Charlie gloomily. 

Harry had been on the Gryffindor House Quidditch team ever since his first year at Hogwarts and owned one of the best racing brooms in the world, a Firebolt.  Flying came more naturally to Harry than anything else in the magical world, and he played in the position of Seeker on the Gryffindor House team.
Mr. Weasley conjured up candles to light the darkening garden before they had their homemade strawberry ice cream, and by the time they had finished, moths were fluttering low over the table, and the warm air was perfumed with the smells of grass and honeysuckle.  Harry was feeling extremely well fed and at peace with the world as he watched several gnomes sprinting through the rosebushes, laughing madly and closely pursued by Crookshanks.
Ron looked carefully up the table to check that the rest of the family were all busy talking, then he said very quietly to Harry, 

Hermione looked around, listening closely.

 said Harry softly, 
m here."
He suddenly remembered the reason he had written to Sirius, and for a moment was on the verge of telling Ron and Hermione about his scar hurting again, and about the dream that had awoken him ... but he really didn
Look at the time,
You really should be in bed, the whole lot of you you'll be up at the crack of dawn to get to the Cup. Harry, if you leave your school list out, I'll get your things for you tomorrow in Diagon Alley.  I'm getting everyone else's.  There might not be time after the World Cup, the match went on for five days last time.
Wow - hope it does this time!
Well, I certainly don't,
I shudder to think what the state of my in-tray would be if I was away from work for five days.
Yeah, someone might slip dragon dung in it again, eh, Perce?
That was a sample of fertilizer from Norway!
It was nothing personal!
It was,
We sent it.
s room when he was being shaken awake by Mrs. Weasley.
"Time to go, Harry, dear," she whispered, moving away to wake Ron.
Harry felt around for his glasses, put them on, and sat up.  It was still dark outside.  Ron muttered indistinctly as his mother roused him.  At the foot of Harry
'S' time already?
What d'you think?
We're supposed to go incognito - do I look like a Muggle, Harry?
Yeah,
very good.
Where're Bill and Charlie and Per-Per-Percy?
Well, they're Apparating, aren't they?
So they can have a bit of a lie-in.
So they're still in bed?
Why can't we Apparate too?
Because you're not of age and you haven't passed your test,
And where have those girls got to?
You have to pass a test to Apparate?
Oh yes,
The Department of Magical Transportation had to fine a couple of people the other day for Apparating without a license.  It's not easy, Apparition, and when it's not done property it can lead to nasty complications.  This pair I'm talking about went and splinched themselves.
Er - splinched?
They left half of themselves behind,
So, of course, they were stuck.  Couldn't move either way.  Had to wait for the Accidental Magic Reversal Squad to sort them out.  Meant a fair old bit of paperwork, I can tell you, what with the Muggles who spotted the body parts they'd left behind.....
Were they okay?
Oh yes,
But they got a heavy fine, and I don't think they'll be trying it again in a hurry.  You don't mess around with Apparition.  There are plenty of adult wizards who don't bother with it.  Prefer brooms - slower, but safer.
But Bill and Charlie and Percy can all do it?
Charlie had to take the test twice,
He failed the first time. Apparated five miles south of where he meant to, right on top of some poor old dear doing her shopping, remember?
Yes, well, he passed the second time,
Percy only passed two weeks ago,
He's been Apparating downstairs every morning since, just to prove he can.
Why do we have to be up so early?
We've got a bit of a walk,
Walk?
What, are we walking to the World Cup?
No, no, that's miles away,
We only need to walk a short way.  It's just that it's very difficult for a large number of wizards to congregate without attracting Muggle attention.  We have to be very careful about how we travel at the best of times, and on a huge occasion like the Quidditch World Cup...
George!
What?
What is that in your pocket?
Nothing!
Don't you lie to me!
s pocket and said, "Accio!"
Several small, brightly colored objects zoomed out of George
s outstretched hand.
"We told you to destroy them!" said Mrs. Weasley furiously, holding up what were unmistakably more Ton-Tongue Toffees. "We told you to get rid of the lot! Empty your pockets, go on, both of you!"
It was an unpleasant scene; the twins had evidently been trying to smuggle as many toffees out of the house as possible, and it was only by using her Summoning Charm that Mrs. Weasley managed to find them all.
"Accio! Accio! Accio!" she shouted, and toffees zoomed from all sorts of unlikely places, including the lining of George
s jeans.
"We spent six months developing those!"  Fred shouted at his mother as she threw the toffees away.
"Oh a fine way to spend six months!"  she shrieked.  "No wonder you didn

All in all, the atmosphere was not very friendly as they took their departure.  Mrs. Weasley was still glowering as she kissed Mr. Weasley on the cheek, though not nearly as much as the twins, who had each hoisted their rucksacks onto their backs and walked out without a word to her.

 said Mrs. Weasley, 
 she called after the twins' retreating backs, but they did not look back or answer.  
ll send Bill, Charlie, and Percy along around midday,"  Mrs. Weasley said to Mr. Weasley, as he, Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny set off across the dark yard after Fred and George.
It was chilly and the moon was still out.  Only a dull, greenish tinge along the horizon to their right showed that daybreak was drawing closer.  Harry, having been thinking about thousands of wizards speeding toward the Quidditch World Cup, sped up to walk with Mr. Weasley.
"So how does everyone get there without all the Muggles noticing?" he asked.
"It
 sighed Mr. Weasley.  
t got a magical site big enough to accommodate them all.  There are places Muggles can
s been working on it for months.  First, of course, we have to stagger the arrivals.  People with cheaper tickets have to arrive two weeks beforehand.  A limited number use Muggle transport, but we can
s a handy wood they
t want to Apparate, or can
re objects that are used to transport wizards from one spot to another at a prearranged time.  You can do large groups at a time if you need to.  There have been two hundred Portkeys placed at strategic points around Britain, and the nearest one to us is up at the top of Stoatshead Hill, so that
re headed."
Mr. Weasley pointed ahead of them, where a large black mass rose beyond the village of Ottery St. Catchpole.
"What sort of objects are Portkeys?" said Harry curiously.
"Well, they can be anything," said Mr. Weasley. "Unobtrusive things, obviously, so Muggles don
ll just think is litter...."
They trudged down the dark, dank lane toward the village, the silence broken only by their footsteps.  The sky lightened very slowly as they made their way through the village, its inky blackness diluting to deepest blue.  Harry
t have breath to spare for talking as they began to climb Stoatshead Hill, stumbling occasionally in hidden rabbit holes, slipping on thick black tuffets of grass.  Each breath Harry took was sharp in his chest and his legs were starting to seize up when, at last, his feet found level ground.
"Whew," panted Mr. Weasley, taking off his glasses and wiping them on his sweater. "Well, we
ve got ten minutes." 
Hermione came over the crest of the hill last, clutching a stitch in her side.
"Now we just need the Portkey," said Mr. Weasley, replacing his glasses and squinting around at the ground.  "It won

They spread out, searching.  They had only been at it for a couple of minutes, however, when a shout rent the still air.

ve got it."
Two tall figures were silhouetted against the starry sky on the other side of the hilltop.
"Amos!"  said Mr. Weasley, smiling as he strode over to the man who had shouted.  The rest of them followed.
Mr. Weasley was shaking hands with a ruddy-faced wizard with a scrubby brown beard, who was holding a moldy-looking old boot in his other hand.
"This is Amos Diggory, everyone," said Mr. Weasley.  "He works for the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures.  And I think you know his son, Cedric?"
Cedric Diggory was an extremely handsome boy of around seventeen.  He was Captain and Seeker of the Hufflepuff House Quidditch team at Hogwarts.
"Hi," said Cedric, looking around at them all.
Everybody said hi back except Fred and George, who merely nodded.  They had never quite forgiven Cedric for beating their team, Gryffindor, in the first Quidditch match of the previous year.
"Long walk, Arthur?"  Cedric
Not too bad,
We live just on the other side of the village there. You?
Had to get up at two, didn't we, Ced?  I tell you, I'll be glad when he's got his Apparition test.  Still ... not complaining ... Quidditch World Cup, wouldn't miss it for a sackful of Galleons - and the tickets cost about that. Mind you, looks like I got off easy. . . .
All these yours, Arthur?
Oh no, only the redheads,
This is Hermione, friend of Ron's - and Harry, another friend -
Merlin's beard,
Harry? Harry Potter?
Er - yeah,
Ced's talked about you, of course,
Told us all about playing against you last year... I said to him, I said - Ced, that'll be something to tell your grandchildren, that will.... You beat Harry Potter!
t think of any reply to this, so he remained silent. Fred and George were both scowling again.  Cedric looked slightly embarrassed.
"Harry fell off his broom, Dad," he muttered.  I told you ... it was an accident...."
"Yes, but you didn
 roared Amos genially, slapping his son on his back. 
m sure Harry
t you, eh?  One falls off his broom, one stays on, you don
s the better flier!"
"Must be nearly time," said Mr. Weasley quickly, pulling out his watch again.  "Do you know whether we


t get tickets," said Mr. Diggory.  "There aren


 said Mr. Weasley.  
s a minute off ... We

He looked around at Harry and Hermione.

s all, a finger will do -"
With difficulty, owing to their bulky backpacks, the nine of them crowded around the old boot held out by Amos Diggory.
They all stood there, in a tight circle, as a chill breeze swept over the hilltop.  Nobody spoke.  It suddenly occurred to Harry how odd this would look if a Muggle were to walk up here now ... nine people, two of them grown men, clutching this manky old boot in the semidarkness, waiting....
"Three. . ." muttered Mr. Weasley, one eye still on his watch, two. . . one. . ."
It happened immediately:  Harry felt as though a hook just behind his navel had been suddenly jerked irresistibly forward.  His feet left the ground; he could feel Ron and Hermione on either side of him, their shoulders banging into his; they were all speeding forward in a howl of wind and swirling color; his forefinger was stuck to the boot as though it was pulling him magnetically onward and then -
His feet slammed into the ground; Ron staggered into him and he fell over; the Portkey hit the ground near his head with a heavy thud.
Harry looked up. Mr. Weasley, Mr. Diggory, and Cedric were still standing, though looking very windswept; everybody else was on the ground.
"Seven past five from Stoatshead Hill," said a voice.

CHAPTER SEVEN - BAGMAN AND CROUCH

Harry disentangled himself from Ron and got to his feet.  They had arrived on what appeared to be a deserted stretch of misty moor.  In front of them was a pair of tired and grumpy-looking wizards, one of whom was holding a large gold watch, the other a thick roll of parchment and a quill.  Both were dressed as Muggles, though very inexpertly:  The man with the watch wore a tweed suit with thigh-length galoshes; his colleague, a kilt and a poncho.
"Morning, Basil," said Mr. Weasley, picking up the boot and handing it to the kilted wizard, who threw it into a large box of used Portkeys beside him; Harry could see an old newspaper, an empty drinks can, and a punctured football.
"Hello there, Arthur," said Basil wearily.  "Not on duty, eh?  It
ve been here all night.... You
ve got a big party coming in from the Black Forest at five fifteen.  Hang on, I
 He consulted his parchment list.  
s walk over there, first field you come to.  Site manager


 said Mr. Weasley, and he beckoned everyone to follow him.
They set off across the deserted moor, unable to make out much through the mist.  After about twenty minutes, a small stone cottage next to a gate swam into view.  Beyond it, Harry could just make out the ghostly shapes of hundreds and hundreds of tents, rising up the gentle slope of a large field toward a dark wood on the horizon.  They said good-bye to the Diggorys and approached the cottage door.
A man was standing in the doorway, looking out at the tents.  Harry knew at a glance that this was the only real Muggle for several acres.  When he heard their footsteps, he turned his head to look at them.

 said Mr. Weasley brightly.

 said the Muggle.



 said Mr. Roberts. 
re you?"
"Weasley - two tents, booked a couple of days ago?"
"Aye," said Mr. Roberts, consulting a list tacked to the door.  "You


s it," said Mr. Weasley.
"You
 said Mr. Roberts.

 said Mr. Weasley.  He retreated a short distance from the cottage and beckoned Harry toward him.  
 he muttered, pulling a roll of Muggle money from his pocket and starting to peel the notes apart.  
s a - a - a ten?  Ah yes, I see the little number on it now... So this is a five?"
"A twenty," Harry corrected him in an undertone, uncomfortably aware of Mr. Roberts trying to catch every word.
"Ah yes, so it is.... I don


 said Mr. Roberts as Mr. Weasley returned with the correct notes.

 repeated Mr. Weasley, puzzled.

re not the first one who
 said Mr. Roberts, scrutinizing Mr. Weasley closely. 


 said Mr. Weasley nervously.
Mr. Roberts rummaged around in a tin for some change.

 he said suddenly, looking out over the misty field again. 


 said Mr. Weasley, his hand held out for his change, but Mr. Roberts didn't give it to him.

 he said thoughtfully. 
s a bloke walking 


t he?"  said Mr. Weasley anxiously
"It
 said Mr. Roberts.  

At that moment, a wizard in plus-fours appeared out of thin air next to Mr. Roberts's front door.

 he said sharply, pointing his wand at Mr. Roberts.
Instantly, Mr. Roberts's eyes slid out of focus, his brows unknitted, and a took of dreamy unconcern fell over his face.  Harry recognized the symptoms of one who had just had his memory modified.

 Mr. Roberts said placidly to Mr. Weasley.  


 said Mr. Weasley.
The wizard in plus-fours accompanied them toward the gate to the campsite.  He looked exhausted:  His chin was blue with stubble and there were deep purple shadows under his eyes.  Once out of earshot of Mr. Roberts, he muttered to Mr. Weasley, 
s not helping.  Trotting around talking about Bludgers and Quaffles at the top of his voice, not a worry about anti-Muggle security Blimey, I

He Disapparated.

 said Ginny, looking surprised.  
t he?"
"He should," said Mr. Weasley, smiling, and leading them through the gates into the campsite, "but Ludo
t wish for a more enthusiastic head of the sports department though.  He played Quidditch for England himself, you know.  And he was the best Beater the Wimbourne Wasps ever had."
They trudged up the misty field between long rows of tents.  Most looked almost ordinary; their owners had clearly tried to make them as Muggle-like as possible, but had slipped up by adding chimneys, or bellpulls, or weather vanes.  However, here and there was a tent so obviously magical that Harry could hardly be surprised that Mr. Roberts was getting suspicious.  Halfway up the field stood an extravagant confection of striped silk like a miniature palace, with several live peacocks tethered at the entrance.  A little farther on they passed a tent that had three floors and several turrets; and a short way beyond that was a tent that had a front garden attached, complete with birdbath, sundial, and fountain.
"Always the same," said Mr. Weasley, smiling.  "We can

They had reached the very edge of the wood at the top of the field, and here was an empty space, with a small sign hammered into the ground that read WEEZLY.

t have a better spot!" said Mr. Weasley happily.  "The field is just on the other side of the wood there, we
  He hoisted his backpack from his shoulders.  
 he said excitedly, 
re out in these numbers on Muggle land.  We
t be too difficult.... Muggles do it all the time.... Here, Harry, where do you reckon we should start?"
Harry had never been camping in his life; the Dursleys had never taken him on any kind of holiday, preferring to leave him with Mrs. Figg, an old neighbor.  However, he and Hermione worked out where most of the poles and pegs should go, and though Mr. Weasley was more of a hindrance than a help, because he got thoroughly overexcited when it came to using the mallet, they finally managed to erect a pair of shabby two-man tents.
All of them stood back to admire their handiwork.  Nobody looking at these tents would guess they belonged to wizards, Harry thought, but the trouble was that once Bill, Charlie, and Percy arrived, they would be a party of ten. Hermione seemed to have spotted this problem too; she gave Harry a quizzical look as Mr. Weasley dropped to his hands and knees and entered the first tent.
"We
 he called, 
ll all squeeze in. Come and have a look."
Harry bent down, ducked under the tent flap, and felt his jaw drop.  He had walked into what looked like an old-fashioned, three room flat, complete with bathroom and kitchen. Oddly enough, it was furnished in exactly the same sort of style as Mrs. Figg
Well, it's not for long,
t camp much anymore, poor fellow, he

He picked up the dusty kettle and peered inside it.  
ll need water....
"There
 said Ron, who had followed Harry inside the tent and seemed completely unimpressed by its extraordinary inner proportions. 
s on the other side of the field."
"Well, why don
 - Mr. Weasley handed over the kettle and a couple of saucepans - 


ve got an oven," said Ron.  "Why can


  said Mr. Weasley, his face shining with anticipation. 
ve seen them at it!"
After a quick tour of the girls
, though without the smell of cats, Harry, Ron, and Hermione set off across the campsite with the kettle and saucepans.
Now, with the sun newly risen and the mist lifting, they could see the city of tents that stretched in every direction.  They made their way slowly through the rows, staring eagerly around.  It was only just dawning on Harry how many witches and wizards there must be in the world; he had never really thought much about those in other countries.
Their fellow campers were starting to wake up.  First to stir were the families with small children; Harry had never seen witches and wizards this young before.  A tiny boy no older than two was crouched outside a large pyramid-shaped tent, holding a wand and poking happily at a slug in the grass, which was swelling slowly to the size of a salami.  As they drew level with him, his mother came hurrying out of the tent.
"How many times, Kevin?  You don
s - wand - yecchh! "
She had trodden on the giant slug, which burst.  Her scolding carried after them on the still air, mingling with the little boy
You bust slug!  You bust slug!
 toes to skim the dewy grass.  A Ministry wizard had already spotted them; as he hurried past Harry, Ron, and Hermione he muttered distractedly, "In broad daylight!  Parents having a lie-in, I suppose -"
Here and there adult wizards and witches were emerging from their tents and starting to cook breakfast.  Some, with furtive looks around them, conjured fires with their wands; others were striking matches with dubious looks on their faces, as though sure this couldn
 INSTITUTE.  Harry caught snatches of conversation in strange languages from the inside of tents they passed, and though he couldn
Er - is it my eyes, or has everything gone green?
t just Ron
Harry!  Ron!  Hermione!
Like the decorations?
The Ministry's not too happy.
Ah, why shouldn't we show our colors?
You should see what the Bulgarians have got dangling all over their tents.  You'll be supporting Ireland, of course?
Like we'd say anything else surrounded by that lot.
  said Hermione.

s go and have a look," said Harry, pointing to a large patch of tents upfield, where the Bulgarian flag - white, green, and red - was fluttering in the breeze.
The tents here had not been bedecked with plant life, but each and every one of them had the same poster attached to it, a poster of a very surly face with heavy black eyebrows. The picture was, of course, moving, but all it did was blink and scowl.
"Krum," said Ron quietly.
"What?" said Hermione.
"Krum!" said Ron. "Viktor Krum, the Bulgarian Seeker!"
"He looks really grumpy," said Hermione, looking around at the many Krums blinking and scowling at them.
"
  Ron raised his eyes to the heavens.  
s unbelievable.  He
s a genius, you wait until tonight, you

There was already a small queue for the tap in the corner of the field.  Harry, Ron, and Hermione joined it, right behind a pair of men who were having a heated argument.  One of them was a very old wizard who was wearing a long flowery nightgown.  The other was clearly a Ministry wizard; he was holding out a pair of pinstriped trousers and almost crying with exasperation.

s a good chap.  You can
s already getting suspicious -
I bought this in a Muggle shop," said the old wizard stubbornly.  "Muggles wear them."
"Muggle women wear them, Archie, not the men, they wear these," said the Ministry wizard, and he brandished the pinstriped trousers.
"I
 said old Archie in indignation.  
round my privates, thanks."
Hermione was overcome with such a strong fit of the giggles at this point that she had to duck out of the queue and only returned when Archie had collected his water and moved away.
Walking more slowly now, because of the weight of the water, they made their way back through the campsite.  Here and there, they saw more familiar faces:  other Hogwarts students with their families.  Oliver Wood, the old captain of Harry
 tent to introduce him, and told him excitedly that he had just been signed to the Puddlemere United reserve team.  Next they were hailed by Ernie Macmillan, a Hufflepuff fourth year, and a little farther on they saw Cho Chang, a very pretty girl who played Seeker on the Ravenclaw team.  She waved and smiled at Harry, who slopped quite a lot of water down his front as he waved back.  More to stop Ron from smirking than anything, Harry hurriedly pointed out a large group of teenagers whom he had never seen before.
"Who d
 he said.  
t go to Hogwarts, do they?"
"
 said Ron.  
t afford it. His penfriend got all offended when he said he wasn

Harry laughed but didn't voice the amazement he felt at hearing about other wizarding schools.  He supposed, now that he saw representatives of so many nationalities in the campsite, that he had been stupid never to realize that Hogwarts couldn't be the only one.  He glanced at Hermione, who looked utterly unsurprised by the information.  No doubt she had run across the news about other wizarding schools in some book or other.

ve been ages," said George when they finally got back to the Weasleys
Met a few people,
You've not got that fire started yet?
Dad's having fun with the matches,
t for lack of trying.  Splintered matches littered the ground around him, but he looked as though he was having the time of his life.
"Oops!" he said as he managed to light a match and promptly dropped it in surprise.
"Come here, Mr. Weasley," said Hermione kindly, taking the box from him, and showing him how to do it properly.
At last they got the fire lit, though it was at least another hour before it was hot enough to cook anything.  There was plenty to watch while they waited, however.  Their tent seemed to be pitched right alongside a kind of thoroughfare to the field, and Ministry members kept hurrying up and down it, greeting Mr. Weasley cordially as they passed.  Mr. Weasley kept up a running commentary, mainly for Harry
s benefit; his own children knew too much about the Ministry to be greatly interested.
"That was Cuthbert Mockridge, Head of the Goblin Liaison Office.... Here comes Gilbert Wimple; he
s had those horns for a while now... Hello, Arnie ... Arnold Peasegood, he
s Bode and Croaker ... they


re what?"
"From the Department of Mysteries, top secret, no idea what they get up to...."
At last, the fire was ready, and they had just started cooking eggs and sausages when Bill, Charlie, and Percy came strolling out of the woods toward them.
"Just Apparated, Dad," said Percy loudly.  "Ah, excellent, lunch!"
They were halfway through their plates of eggs and sausages when Mr. Weasley jumped to his feet, waving and grinning at a man who was striding toward them.  "Aha!"  he said.  "The man of the moment!  Ludo!"
Ludo Bagman was easily the most noticeable person Harry had seen so far, even including old Archie in his flowered nightdress.  He was wearing long Quidditch robes in thick horizontal stripes of bright yellow and black.  An enormous picture of a wasp was splashed across his chest.  He had the look of a powerfully built man gone slightly to seed; the robes were stretched tightly across a large belly he surely had not had in the days when he had played Quidditch for England.  His nose was squashed (probably broken by a stray Bludger, Harry thought), but his round blue eyes, short blond hair, and rosy complexion made him look like a very overgrown schoolboy.
"Ahoy there!"  Bagman called happily.  He was walking as though he had springs attached to the balls of his feet and was plainly in a state of wild excitement.
"Arthur, old man," he puffed as he reached the campfire, "what a day, eh?  What a day! Could we have asked for more perfect weather?  A cloudless night coming ... and hardly a hiccough in the arrangements.... Not much for me to do!"
Behind him, a group of haggard-looking Ministry wizards rushed past, pointing at the distant evidence of some sort of a magical fire that was sending violet sparks twenty feet into the air.
Percy hurried forward with his hand outstretched.  Apparently his disapproval of the way Ludo Bagman ran his department did not prevent him from wanting to make a good impression.
"Ah - yes," said Mr. Weasley, grinning, "this is my son Percy.  He
s Fred - Bill, Charlie, Ron - my daughter, Ginny and Ron

Bagman did the smallest of double takes when he heard Harry's name, and his eyes performed the familiar flick upward to the scar on Harry's forehead.

 Mr. Weasley continued, 
s thanks to him we

Bagman beamed and waved his hand as if to say it had been nothing.

  he said eagerly, jingling what seemed to be a large amount of gold in the pockets of his yellow-and-black robes.  
ve already got Roddy Pontner betting me Bulgaria will score first - I offered him nice odds, considering Ireland
ve seen in years - and little Agatha Timms has put up half shares in her eel farm on a weeklong match."
"Oh ... go on then," said Mr. Weasley.  "Let


 Ludo Bagman looked slightly disappointed, but recovered himself.  


re a bit young to be gambling," said Mr. Weasley.  "Molly wouldn


ll bet thirty-seven Galleons, fifteen Sickles, three Knuts," said Fred as he and George quickly pooled all their money, "that Ireland wins - but Viktor Krum gets the Snitch. Oh and we


t want to go showing Mr. Bagman rubbish like that," Percy hissed, but Bagman didn
Excellent! I haven't seen one that convincing in years!  I'd pay five Galleons for that!
Boys,
I don't want you betting.... That's all your savings .... Your mother -
Don't be a spoilsport, Arthur!
They're old enough to know what they want!  You reckon Ireland will win but Krum'll get the Snitch?  Not a chance, boys, not a chance.... I'll give you excellent odds on that one .... We'll add five Galleons for the funny wand, then, shall we....
 names.
"Cheers," said George, taking the slip of parchment Bagman handed him and tucking it away into the front of his robes.  Bagman turned most cheerfully back to Mr. Weasley.
"Couldn
m keeping an eye out for Barty Crouch.  My Bulgarian opposite number
t understand a word he
ll be able to sort it out.  He speaks about a hundred and fifty languages."
"Mr. Crouch?" said Percy, suddenly abandoning his look of poker-stiff disapproval and positively writhing with excitement.  "He speaks over two hundred!  Mermish and Gobbledegook and Troll. . ."
"Anyone can speak Troll," said Fred dismissively.  "All you have to do is point and grunt."
Percy threw Fred an extremely nasty look and stoked the fire vigorously to bring the kettle back to the boil.
"Any news of Bertha Jorkins yet, Ludo?"  Mr. Weasley asked as Bagman settled himself down on the grass beside them all.
"Not a dicky bird," said Bagman comfortably.  "But she
ll wander back into the office sometime in October, thinking it


t think it might be time to send someone to look for her?"  Mr. Weasley suggested tentatively as Percy handed Bagman his tea.
"Barty Crouch keeps saying that," said Bagman, his round eyes widening innocently, "but we really can

A wizard had just Apparated at their fireside, and he could not have made more of a contrast with Ludo Bagman, sprawled on the grass in his old Wasp robes.  Barty Crouch was a stiff, upright, elderly man, dressed in an impeccably crisp suit and tie.  The parting in his short gray hair was almost unnaturally straight, and his narrow toothbrush mustache looked as though he trimmed it using a slide rule.  His shoes were very highly polished.  Harry could see at once why Percy idolized him.  Percy was a great believer in rigidly following rules, and Mr. Crouch had complied with the rule about Muggle dressing so thoroughly that he could have passed for a bank manager; Harry doubted even Uncle Vernon would have spotted him for what he really was.

 said Ludo brightly, patting the ground beside him.

 said Crouch, and there was a bite of impatience in his voice. 
ve been looking for you everywhere.  The Bulgarians are insisting we add another twelve seats to the Top Box."
"Oh is that what they
  said Bagman.  I thought the chap was asking to borrow a pair of tweezers.  Bit of a strong accent.
Mr. Crouch!
Would you like a cup of tea?
Oh,
Yes - thank you, Weatherby.
Oh and I've been wanting a word with you too, Arthur,
Ali Bashir's on the warpath.  He wants a word with you about your embargo on flying carpets.
I sent him an owl about that just last week.  If I've told him once I've told him a hundred times:  Carpets are defined as a Muggle Artifact by the Registry of Proscribed Charmable Objects, but will he listen?
I doubt it,
He's desperate to export here.
Well, they'll never replace brooms in Britain, will they?
Ali thinks there's a niche in the market for a family vehicle, said Mr. Crouch.  

He spoke as though he wanted to leave nobody in any doubt that all his ancestors had abided strictly by the law.

  said Bagman breezily.

 said Mr. Crouch dryly.  


ll both be glad when this is over?"  said Mr. Weasley.
Ludo Bagman looked shocked.
"Glad!  Don
ve had more fun.... Still, it
t got anything to took forward to, eh, Barty?  Eh?  Plenty left to organize, eh?"
Mr. Crouch raised his eyebrows at Bagman.
"We agreed not to make the announcement until all the details -"
"Oh details!"  said Bagman, waving the word away like a cloud of midges.  "They
t they?  They
t they?  I bet you anything these kids
s happening at Hogwarts -"
"Ludo, we need to meet the Bulgarians, you know," said Mr. Crouch sharply, cutting Bagman
Thank you for the tea, Weatherby.
See you all later!
You'll be up in the Top Box with me - I'm commentating!
What's happening at Hogwarts, Dad?
What were they talking about?
You'll find out soon enough,
It's classified information, until such time as the Ministry decides to release it,
Mr. Crouch was quite right not to disclose it.
Oh shut up, Weatherby,
Been saving my pocket money all summer for this,
s hand, scowling up at the green rosette above him.
"Wow, look at these!"  said Harry, hurrying over to a cart piled high with what looked like brass binoculars, except that they were covered with all sorts of weird knobs and dials.
"Omnioculars," said the saleswizard eagerly.  "You can replay action ... slow everything down ... and they flash up a play-by- play breakdown if you need it.  Bargain - ten Galleons each."
"Wish I hadn
 said Ron, gesturing at his dancing shamrock hat and gazing longingly at the Omnioculars.

 said Harry firmly to the wizard.

t bother," said Ron, going red.  He was always touchy about the fact that Harry, who had inherited a small fortune from his parents, had much more money than he did.
"You won
 Harry told him, thrusting Omnioculars into his and Hermione's hands.  


 said Ron, grinning.

 said Hermione.  
ll get us some programs, look -"
Their money bags considerably lighter, they went back to the tents.  Bill, Charlie, and Ginny were all sporting green rosettes too, and Mr. Weasley was carrying an Irish flag.  Fred and George had no souvenirs as they had given Bagman all their gold.
And then a deep, booming gong sounded somewhere beyond the woods, and at once, green and red lanterns blazed into life in the trees, lighting a path to the field.
"It
 said Mr. Weasley, looking as excited as any of them.  
s go!"

CHAPTER EIGHT - THE QUIDDITCH WORLD CUP

Clutching their purchases, Mr. Weasley in the lead, they all hurried into the wood, following the lantern-lit trail.  They could hear the sounds of thousands of people moving around them, shouts and laughter, snatches of singing.  The atmosphere of feverish excitement was highly infectious; Harry couldn
Seats a hundred thousand,
s face.  "Ministry task force of five hundred have been working on it all year.  Muggle Repelling Charms on every inch of it.  Every time Muggles have got anywhere near here all year, they
 he added fondly, leading the way toward the nearest entrance, which was already surrounded by a swarm of shouting witches and wizards.

  said the Ministry witch at the entrance when she checked their tickets. 

The stairs into the stadium were carpeted in rich purple.  They clambered upward with the rest of the crowd, which slowly filtered away through doors into the stands to their left and right.  Mr. Weasley's party kept climbing, and at last they reached the top of the staircase and found themselves in a small box, set at the highest point of the stadium and situated exactly halfway between the golden goal posts.  About twenty purple-and-gilt chairs stood in two rows here, and Harry, filing into the front seats with the Weasleys, looked down upon a scene the likes of which he could never have imagined.
A hundred thousand witches and wizards were taking their places in the seats, which rose in levels around the long oval field.  Everything was suffused with a mysterious golden light, which seemed to come from the stadium itself.  The field looked smooth as velvet from their lofty position.  At either end of the field stood three goal hoops, fifty feet high; right opposite them, almost at Harry's eye level, was a gigantic blackboard.  Gold writing kept dashing across it as though an invisible giant's hand were scrawling upon the blackboard and then wiping it off again; watching it, Harry saw that it was flashing advertisements across the field.

The Bluebottle:  A Broom for All the Family - safe, reliable, and with Built-in Anti-Burgler Buzzer ... Mrs. Shower's All Purpose Magical Mess Remover: No Pain, No Stain! ... Gladrags Wizardwear - London, Paris, Hogsmeade...

Harry tore his eyes away from the sign and looked over his shoulder to see who else was sharing the box with them.  So far it was empty, except for a tiny creature sitting in the second from last seat at the end of the row behind them. The creature, whose legs were so short they stuck out in front of it on the chair, was wearing a tea towel draped like a toga, and it had its face hidden in its hands.  Yet those long, batlike ears were oddly familiar....

  said Harry incredulously.
The tiny creature looked up and stretched its fingers, revealing enormous brown eyes and a nose the exact size and shape of a large tomato.  It wasn't Dobby - it was, however, unmistakably a house-elf, as Harry's friend Dobby had been.  Harry had set Dobby free from his old owners, the Malfoy family.

  squeaked the elf curiously from between its fingers.  Its voice was higher even than Dobby's had been, a teeny, quivering squeak of a voice, and Harry suspected though it was very hard to tell with a house-elf - that this one might just be female. Ron and Hermione spun around in their seats to look.  Though they had heard a lot about Dobby from Harry, they had never actually met him.  Even Mr. Weasley looked around in interest.

 Harry told the elf, 


  squeaked the elf.  She was shielding her face, as though blinded by light, though the Top Box was not brightly lit.  
 Her dark brown eyes widened to the size of side plates as they rested upon Harry's scar. 


 said Harry.

 s he said, lowering her hands very slightly and looking awestruck.

  said Harry.  
s freedom suiting him?"
"Ah, sir," said Winky, shaking her head, "ah sir, meaning no disrespect, sir, but I is not sure you did Dobby a favor, sir, when you is setting him free."
"Why?" said Harry, taken aback.  "What


s head, sir, " said Winky sadly.  "Ideas above his station, sir.  Can


 said Harry.
Winky lowered her voice by a half-octave and whispered, 


 said Harry blankly.  
t he be paid?"
Winky looked quite horrified at the idea and closed her fingers slightly so that her face was half-hidden again.
"House-elves is not paid, sir!"  she said in a muffled squeak.  "No, no, no.  I says to Dobby, I says, go find yourself a nice family and settle down, Dobby.  He is getting up to all sorts of high jinks, sir, what is unbecoming to a house-elf.  You goes racketing around like this, Dobby, I says, and next thing I hear you


s about time he had a bit of fun," said Harry.
"House-elves is not supposed to have fun, Harry Potter," said Winky firmly, from behind her hands.  "House-elves does what they is told.  I is not liking heights at all, Harry Potter" - she glanced toward the edge of the box and gulped - "but my master sends me to the Top Box and I comes, sir."
"Why
t like heights?"  said Harry, frowning.
"Master - master wants me to save him a seat, Harry Potter.  He is very busy," said Winky, tilting her head toward the empty space beside her.  "Winky is wishing she is back in master

She gave the edge of the box another frightened look and hid her eyes completely again. Harry turned back to the others.

s a house-elf?"  Ron muttered.  "Weird things, aren


 said Harry fervently.
Ron pulled out his Omnioculars and started testing them, staring down into the crowd on the other side of the stadium.

  he said, twiddling the replay knob on the side.  I can make that old bloke down there pick his nose again ... and again ... and again. . .
'A display from the team mascots will precede the match,
 she read aloud.

"Oh that
 said Mr. Weasley.  

The box filled gradually around them over the next half hour.  Mr. Weasley kept shaking hands with people who were obviously very important wizards.  Percy jumped to his feet so often that he looked as though he were trying to sit on a hedgehog.  When Cornelius Fudge, the Minister of Magic himself, arrived, Percy bowed so low that his glasses fell off and shattered. Highly embarrassed, he repaired them with his wand and thereafter remained in his seat, throwing jealous looks at Harry, whom Cornelius Fudge had greeted like an old friend.  They had met before, and Fudge shook Harry's hand in a fatherly fashion, asked how he was, and introduced him to the wizards on either side of him.

 he told the Bulgarian minister loudly, who was wearing splendid robes of black velvet trimmed with gold and didn't seem to understand a word of English.  

The Bulgarian wizard suddenly spotted Harry's scar and started gabbling loudly and excitedly, pointing at it.

d get there in the end," said Fudge wearily to Harry.  "I
s saving him a seat.... Good job too, these Bulgarian blighters have been trying to cadge all the best places ... ah, and here

Harry, Ron, and Hermione turned quickly.  Edging along the second row to three still-empty seats right behind Mr. Weasley were none other than Dobby the house-elf's former owners: Lucius Malfoy; his son, Draco; and a woman Harry supposed must be Draco's mother.
Harry and Draco Malfoy had been enemies ever since their very first journey to Hogwarts.  A pale boy with a pointed face and  white-blond hair, Draco greatly resembled his father.  His mother was blonde too; tall and slim, she would have been nice-looking if she hadn't been wearing a look that suggested there was a nasty smell under her nose.

 said Mr. Malfoy, holding out his hand as he reached the Minister of Magic.  
t think you


  said Fudge, smiling and bowing to Mrs. Malfoy. 
s the Bulgarian Minister of Magic, and he can
m saying anyway, so never mind.  And let

It was a tense moment. Mr. Weasley and Mr. Malfoy looked at each other and Harry vividly recalled the last time they had come face-to-face:  It had been in Flourish and Blotts' bookshop, and they had had a fight.  Mr. Malfoy's cold gray eyes swept over Mr. Weasley, and then up and down the row.

 he said softly.  
t have fetched this much?"
Fudge, who wasn
Lucius has just given a very generous contribution to St. Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries, Arthur.  He's here as my guest.
How - how nice,
s eyes had returned to Hermione, who went slightly pink, but stared determinedly back at him.  Harry knew exactly what was making Mr. Malfoy
t dare say anything.  He nodded sneeringly to Mr. Weasley and continued down the line to his seats.  Draco shot Harry, Ron, and Hermione one contemptuous look, then settled himself between his mother and father.
"Slimy gits," Ron muttered as he, Harry, and Hermione turned to face the field again. Next moment, Ludo Bagman charged into the box.
"Everyone ready?"  he said, his round face gleaming like a great, excited Edam. "Minister - ready to go?"
"Ready when you are, Ludo," said Fudge comfortably.
Ludo whipped out his wand, directed it at his own throat, and said "Sonorus!" and then spoke over the roar of sound that was now filling the packed stadium; his voice echoed over them, booming into every corner of the stands.
"Ladies and gentlemen. . . welcome!  Welcome to the final of the four hundred and twenty-second Quidditch World Cup!"
The spectators screamed and clapped.  Thousands of flags waved, adding their discordant national anthems to the racket.  The huge blackboard opposite them was wiped clear of its last message (Bertie Bott
And now, without further ado, allow me to introduce. . . the Bulgarian National Team Mascots!
I wonder what they've brought,
Aaah!
Veela!
What are veel -?
s question was answered for him.  Veela were women. . . the most beautiful women Harry had ever seen. . . except that they weren
t be - human.  This puzzled Harry for a moment while he tried to guess what exactly they could be; what could make their skin shine moon-bright like that, or their white-gold hair fan out behind them without wind.. . but then the music started, and Harry stopped worrying about them not being human - in fact, he stopped worrying about anything at all.
The veela had started to dance, and Harry
s dazed mind.  He wanted to do something very impressive, right now.  Jumping from the box into the stadium seemed a good idea. . . but would it be good enough?
"Harry, what are you doing?" said Hermione
t want the veela to go. Harry was with them; he would, of course, be supporting Bulgaria, and he wondered vaguely why he had a large green shamrock pinned to his chest.  Ron, meanwhile, was absentmindedly shredding the shamrocks on his hat.  Mr. Weasley, smiling slightly, leaned over to Ron and tugged the hat out of his hands.
"You
 he said, 


  said Ron, staring openmouthed at the veela, who had now lined up along one side of the field.
Hermione made a loud tutting noise.  She reached up and pulled Harry back into his seat. 
  she said.

 roared Ludo Bagman's voice, 

Next moment, what seemed to be a great green-and-gold comet came zooming into the stadium.  It did one circuit of the stadium, then split into two smaller comets, each hurtling toward the goal posts.  A rainbow arced suddenly across the field, connecting the two balls of light.  The crowd oooohed and aaaaahed, as though at a fireworks display.  Now the rainbow faded and the balls of light reunited and merged; they had formed a great shimmering shamrock, which rose up into the sky and began to soar over the stands.  Something like golden rain seemed to be falling from it - 
  yelled Ron as the shamrock soared over them, and heavy gold coins rained from it, bouncing off their heads and seats.  Squinting up at the shamrock, Harry realized that it was actually comprised of thousands of tiny little bearded men with red vests, each carrying a minute lamp of gold or green.

 said Mr. Weasley over the tumultuous applause of the crowd, many of whom were still fighting and rummaging around under their chairs to retrieve the gold.

 Ron yelled happily, stuffing a fistful of gold coins into Harry's hand, 
ve got to buy me a Christmas present, ha!"
The great shamrock dissolved, the leprechauns drifted down onto the field on the opposite side from the veela, and settled themselves cross-legged to watch the match.
"And now, ladies and gentlemen, kindly welcome - the Bulgarian National Quidditch Team!  I give you - Dimitrov!"
A scarlet-clad figure on a broomstick, moving so fast it was blurred, shot out onto the field from an entrance far below, to wild applause from the Bulgarian supporters.
"Ivanova!"
A second scarlet-robed player zoomed out.
"Zograf! Levski! Vulchanov! Volkov! Aaaaaaand - Krum!"
"That
s him!" yelled Ron, following Krum with his Omnioculars. Harry quickly focused his own.
Viktor Krum was thin, dark, and sallow-skinned, with a large curved nose and thick black eyebrows. He looked like an overgrown bird of prey. It was hard to believe he was only eighteen.
"And now, please greet - the Irish National Quidditch Team!"  yelled Bagman. "Presenting - Connolly!  Ryan!  Troy!  Mullet!  Moran!  Quigley!  Aaaaaand - Lynch!"
Seven green blurs swept onto the field; Harry spun a small dial on the side of his Omnioculars and slowed the players down enough to read the word "Firebolt" on each of their brooms and see their names, embroidered in silver, upon their backs.
"And here, all the way from Egypt, our referee, acclaimed Chairwizard of the International Association of Quidditch, Hassan Mostafa!"
A small and skinny wizard, completely bald but with a mustache to rival Uncle Vernon
Theeeeeeeey're OFF!
And it's Mullet! Troy! Moran! Dimitrov! Back to Mullet! Troy! Levski! Moran!
s path; Moran ducked to avoid the Bludger and dropped the Quaffle; and Levski, soaring beneath, caught it - "TROY SCORES!" roared Bagman, and the stadium shuddered with a roar of applause and cheers. "Ten zero to Ireland!"
"What?"  Harry yelled, looking wildly around through his Omnioculars. "But Levski


re not going to watch at normal speed, you
 shouted Hermione, who was dancing up and down, waving her arms in the air while Troy did a lap of honor around the field. Harry looked quickly over the top of his Omnioculars and saw that the leprechauns watching from the sidelines had all risen into the air again and formed the great, glittering shamrock. Across the field, the veela were watching them sulkily.
Furious with himself, Harry spun his speed dial back to normal as play resumed.
Harry knew enough about Quidditch to see that the Irish Chasers were superb. They worked as a seamless team, their movements so well coordinated that they appeared to be reading one another's minds as they positioned themselves, and the rosette on Harry's chest kept squeaking their names: 
 And within ten minutes, Ireland had scored twice more, bringing their lead to thirty-zero and causing a thunderous tide of roars and applause from the green-clad supporters.
The match became still faster, but more brutal. Volkov and Vulchanov, the Bulgarian Beaters, were whacking the Bludgers as fiercely as possible at the Irish Chasers, and were starting to prevent them from using some of their best moves; twice they were forced to scatter, and then, finally, Ivanova managed to break through their ranks; dodge the Keeper, Ryan; and score Bulgaria's first goal.

 bellowed Mr. Weasley as the veela started to dance in celebration. Harry screwed up his eyes too; he wanted to keep his mind on the game. After a few seconds, he chanced a glance at the field.  The veela had stopped dancing, and Bulgaria was again in possession of the Quaffle.

  roared Bagman.
One hundred thousand wizards gasped as the two Seekers, Krum and Lynch, plummeted through the center of the Chasers, so fast that it looked as though they had just jumped from airplanes without parachutes. Harry followed their descent through his Omnioculars, squinting to see where the Snitch was - 

re going to crash!" screamed Hermione next to Harry.
She was half right - at the very last second, Viktor Krum pulled out of the dive and spiraled off. Lynch, however, hit the ground with a dull thud that could be heard throughout the stadium. A huge groan rose from the Irish seats.
"Fool!" moaned Mr. Weasley. "Krum was feinting!"
"It
 yelled Bagman's voice, 


ll be okay, he only got ploughed!" Charlie said reassuringly to Ginny, who was hanging over the side of the box, looking horror-struck. "Which is what Krum was after, of course... ."
Harry hastily pressed the replay and play-by-play buttons on his Omnioculars, twiddled the speed dial, and put them back up to his eyes.
He watched as Krum and Lynch dived again in slow motion.  WRONSKI DEFENSIVE FEINT - DANGEROUS SEEKER DIVERSION  read the shining purple lettering across his lenses.  He saw Krum
t seen the Snitch at all, he was just making Lynch copy him.  Harry had never seen anyone fly like that; Krum hardly looked as though he was using a broomstick at all; he moved so easily through the air that he looked unsupported and weightless.  Harry turned his Omnioculars back to normal and focused them on Krum.  He was now circling high above Lynch, who was being revived by mediwizards with cups of potion.  Harry, focusing still more closely upon Krum
t catch it, but a scream of rage from the Irish crowd, and Mostafa
And Mostafa takes the Bulgarian Keeper to task for cobbing -- excessive use of elbows!
And - yes, it's a penalty to Ireland!
HA, HA, HA!
t bothered, was soon tugging on Harry
Look at the referee!
Now, we can't have that!
Somebody slap the referee!
And unless I'm much mistaken, Mostafa is actually attempting to send off the Bulgarian team mascots!
s voice.  "Now there
t seen before. . . . Oh this could turn nasty. . .
It did: The Bulgarian Beaters, Volkov and Vulchanov, landed on either side of Mostafa and began arguing furiously with him, gesticulating toward the leprechauns, who had now gleefully formed the words "HEE, HEE, HEE."  Mostafa was not impressed by the Bulgarians
Two penalties for Ireland!
And Volkov and Vulchanov had better get back on those brooms. . . yes. . . there they go. . . and Troy takes the Quaffle. .
Play now reached a level of ferocity beyond anything they had yet seen. The Beaters on both sides were acting without mercy:  Volkov and Vulchanov in particular seemed not to care whether their clubs made contact with Bludger or human as they swung them violently through the air. Dimitrov shot straight at Moran, who had the Quaffle, nearly knocking her off her broom.

  roared the Irish supporters as one, all standing up in a great wave of green.

  echoed Ludo Bagman's magically magnified voice.  
s got to be another penalty - yes, there

The leprechauns had risen into the air again, and this time, they formed a giant hand, which was making a very rude sign indeed at the veela across the field. At this, the veela lost control.  Instead of dancing, they launched themselves across the field and began throwing what seemed to be handfuls of fire at the leprechauns.  Watching through his Omnioculars, Harry saw that they didn't look remotely beautiful now.  On the contrary, their faces were elongating into sharp, cruel-beaked bird heads, and long, scaly wings were bursting from their shoulders -

 yelled Mr. Weasley over the tumult of the crowd below, 

Ministry wizards were flooding onto the field to separate the veela and the leprechauns, but with little success; meanwhile, the pitched battle below was nothing to the one taking place above. Harry turned this way and that, staring through his Omnioculars, as the Quaffie changed hands with the speed of a bullet.


But the cheers of the Irish supporters were barely heard over the shrieks of the veela, the blasts now issuing from the Ministry members' wands, and the furious roars of the Bulgarians.  The game recommenced immediately; now Levski had the Quaffle, now Dimitrov -
The Irish Beater Quigley swung heavily at a passing Bludger, and hit it as hard as possible toward Krum, who did not duck quickly enough. It hit him full in the face.
There was a deafening groan from the crowd; Krum's nose looked broken, there was blood everywhere, but Hassan Mostafa didn't blow his whistle. He had become distracted, and Harry couldn't blame him; one of the veela had thrown a handful of fire and set his broom tail alight.
Harry wanted someone to realize that Krum was injured; even though he was supporting Ireland, Krum was the most exciting player on the field.  Ron obviously felt the same.

t play like that, look at him -"
"Look at Lynch!" Harry yelled.
For the Irish Seeker had suddenly gone into a dive, and Harry was quite sure that this was no Wronski Feint; this was the real thing...
"He
  Harry shouted.  
s seen it!  Look at him go!"
Half the crowd seemed to have realized what was happening; the Irish supporters rose in another great wave of green, screaming their Seeker on. . . but Krum was on his tail.  How he could see where he was going, Harry had no idea; there were flecks of blood flying through the air behind him, but he was drawing level with Lynch now as the pair of them hurtled toward the ground again -
"They
 shrieked Hermione.

re not!" roared Ron.
"Lynch is!" yelled Harry.
And he was right - for the second time, Lynch hit the ground with tremendous force and was immediately stampeded by a horde of angry veela.
"The Snitch, where
  bellowed Charlie, along the row.

s got it - Krum
s all over!"  shouted Harry.
Krum, his red robes shining with blood from his nose, was rising gently into the air, his fist held high, a glint of gold in his hand.
The scoreboard was flashing BULGARIA: 160, IRELAND: 170 across the crowd, who didn
IRELAND WINS!
KRUM GETS THE SNITCH - BUT IRELAND WINS -- good lord, I don't think any of us were expecting that!
What did he catch the Snitch for?
He ended it when Ireland were a hundred and sixty points ahead, the idiot!
He knew they were never going to catch up!
The Irish Chasers were too good. . . . He wanted to end it on his terms, that's all. . .

t he?"  Hermione said, leaning forward to watch Krum land as a swarm of mediwizards blasted a path through the battling leprechauns and veela to get to him.  "He looks a terrible mess. . ."
Harry put his Omnioculars to his eyes again.  It was hard to see what was happening below, because leprechauns were zooming delightedly all over the field, but he could just make out Krum, surrounded by mediwizards.  He looked surlier than ever and refused to let them mop him up.  His team members were around him, shaking their heads and looking dejected; a short way away, the Irish players were dancing gleefully in a shower of gold descending from their mascots.  Flags were waving all over the stadium, the Irish national anthem blared from all sides; the veela were shrinking back into their usual, beautiful selves now, though looking dispirited and forlorn.
"Vell, ve fought bravely," said a gloomy voice behind Harry.  He looked around; it was the Bulgarian Minister of Magic.
"You can speak English!"  said Fudge, sounding outraged. "And you

 
 said the Bulgarian minister, shrugging.

  roared Bagman.
Harry's eyes were suddenly dazzled by a blinding white light, as the Top Box was magically illuminated so that everyone in the stands could see the inside. Squinting toward the entrance, he saw two panting wizards carrying a vast golden cup into the box, which they handed to Cornelius Fudge, who was still looking very disgruntled that he'd been using sign language all day for nothing.

s have a really loud hand for the gallant losers - Bulgaria!"  Bagman shouted.
And up the stairs into the box came the seven defeated Bulgarian players. The crowd below was applauding appreciatively; Harry could see thousands and thousands of Omniocular lenses flashing and winking in their direction.
One by one, the Bulgarians filed between the rows of seats in the box, and Bagman called out the name of each as they shook hands with their own minister and then with Fudge. Krum, who was last in line, looked a real mess.  Two black eyes were blooming spectacularly on his bloody face.  He was still holding the Snitch.  Harry noticed that he seemed much less coordinated on the ground.  He was slightly duck-footed and distinctly round-shouldered.  But when Krum
s hands were numb with clapping.
At last, when the Irish team had left the box to perform another lap of honor on their brooms (Aidan Lynch on the back of Confolly
Quietus.
They'll be talking about this one for years,
a really unexpected twist, that. . . . shame it couldn't have lasted longer. . . . Ah yes... . yes, I owe you. . . how much?
t tell your mother you
 Mr. Weasley implored Fred and George as they all made their way slowly down the purple-carpeted stairs.
		
t worry, Dad," said Fred gleefully, "we
t want it confiscated."
		Mr. Weasley looked for a moment as though he was going to ask what these big plans were, but seemed to decide, upon reflection, that he didn
Oh I am glad I'm not on duty,
I wouldn't fancy having to go and tell the Irish they've got to stop celebrating.
s more spectacular moves.  He was itching to get back on his own Firebolt and try out the Wronski Feint. . . . Somehow Oliver Wood had never managed to convey with all his wriggling diagrams what that move was supposed to look like.. . . Harry saw himself in robes that had his name on the back, and imagined the sensation of hearing a hundred-thousand-strong crowd roar, as Ludo Bagman
I give you. . . Potter!
Get up! Ron - Harry - come on now, get up, this is urgent!
S' matter?
No time, Harry - just grab a jacket and get outside - quickly!
t seem to have faces. . . . Then he realized that their heads were hooded and their faces masked.  High above them, floating along in midair, four struggling figures were being contorted into grotesque shapes.  It was as though the masked wizards on the ground were puppeteers, and the people above them were marionettes operated by invisible strings that rose from the wands into the air. Two of the figures were very small.
More wizards were joining the marching group, laughing and pointing up at the floating bodies.  Tents crumpled and fell as the marching crowd swelled.  Once or twice Harry saw one of the marchers blast a tent out of his way with his wand.  Several caught fire.  The screaming grew louder.
The floating people were suddenly illuminated as they passed over a burning tent and Harry recognized one of them:  Mr. Roberts, the campsite manager.  The other three looked as though they might be his wife and children.  One of the marchers below flipped Mrs. Roberts upside down with his wand; her nightdress fell down to reveal voluminous drawers and she struggled to cover herself up as the crowd below her screeched and hooted with glee.
"That
 Ron muttered, watching the smallest Muggle child, who had begun to spin like a top, sixty feet above the ground, his head flopping limply from side to side. 

Hermione and Ginny came hurrying toward them, pulling coats over their nightdresses, with Mr. Weasley right behind them.  At the same moment, Bill, Charlie, and Percy emerged from the boys' tent, fully dressed, with their sleeves rolled up and their wands out.

re going to help the Ministry!"  Mr. Weasley shouted over all the noise, rolling up his own sleeves.  "You lot - get into the woods, and stick together.  I
ve sorted this out!"
Bill, Charlie, and Percy were already sprinting away toward the oncoming marchers; Mr. Weasley tore after them. Ministry wizards were dashing from every direction toward the source of the trouble.  The crowd beneath the Roberts family was coming ever closer.
"C
 said Fred, grabbing Ginny's hand and starting to pull her toward the wood. Harry, Ron, Hermione, and George followed. They all looked back as they reached the trees. The crowd beneath the Roberts family was larger than ever; they could see the Ministry wizards trying to get through it to the hooded wizards in the center, but they were having great difficulty. It looked as though they were scared to perform any spell that might make the Roberts family fall.
The colored lanterns that had lit the path to the stadium had been extinguished.  Dark figures were blundering through the trees; children were crying; anxious shouts and panicked voices were reverberating around them in the cold night air.  Harry felt himself being pushed hither and thither by people whose faces he could not see.  Then he heard Ron yell with pain.

  said Hermione anxiously, stopping so abruptly that Harry walked into her.  

She illuminated her wand and directed its narrow beam across the path. Ron was lying sprawled on the ground.

 he said angrily, getting to his feet again.

 said a drawling voice from behind them.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione turned sharply. Draco Malfoy was standing alone nearby, leaning against a tree, looking utterly relaxed.  His arms folded, he seemed to have been watching the scene at the campsite through a gap in the trees.
Ron told Malfoy to do something that Harry knew he would never have dared say in front of Mrs. Weasley.

 said Malfoy, his pale eyes glittering.  
t you better be hurrying along, now?  You wouldn

He nodded at Hermione, and at the same moment, a blast like a bomb sounded from the campsite, and a flash of green light momentarily lit the trees around them.

s that supposed to mean?" said Hermione defiantly.  "Granger, they
said Malfoy.  
you want to be showing off your knickers in midair?  Because if you do, hang around. . . they


s a witch," Harry snarled.
"Have it your own way, Potter," said Malfoy, grinning maliciously. "If you think they can


 shouted Ron. Everybody present knew that 
 was a very offensive term for a witch or wizard of Muggle parentage.

 said Hermione quickly, seizing Ron's arm to restrain him as he took a step toward Malfoy.
There came a bang from the other side of the trees that was louder than anything they had heard. Several people nearby screamed. Malfoy chuckled softly.

t they?" he said lazily. "I suppose your daddy told you all to hide? What


re your parents?" said Harry, his temper rising. "Out there wearing masks, are they?"
Malfoy turned his face to Harry, still smiling.
"Well. . . if they were, I wouldn


 said Hermione, with a disgusted look at Malfoy, 
s go and find the others."
 "Keep that big bushy head down, Granger," sneered Malfoy.
"Come on," Hermione repeated, and she pulled Harry and Ron up the path again.
"I
 said Ron hotly.

 said Hermione fervently. 
t believe this. Where have the others got to?"
Fred, George, and Ginny were nowhere to be seen, though the path was packed with plenty of other people, all looking nervously over their shoulders toward the commotion back at the campsite.  A huddle of teenagers in pajamas was arguing vociferously a little way along the path.  When they saw Harry, Ron, and Hermione, a girl with thick curly hair turned and said quickly, "O  est Madame Maxime? Nous l


 said Ron.

 The girl who had spoken turned her back on him, and as they walked on they distinctly heard her say, 


 muttered Hermione.

 said Harry.

 said Hermione.  


 said Harry.

t have gone that far," said Ron, pulling out his wand, lighting it like Hermione
t there.  The only thing he could find was his Omnioculars.
"Ah, no, I don
ve lost my wand!"
 "You

Ron and Hermione raised their wands high enough to spread the narrow beams of light farther on the ground; Harry looked all around him, but his wand was nowhere to be seen.

s back in the tent," said Ron.
"Maybe it fell out of your pocket when we were running?" Hermione suggested anxiously.
"Yeah," said Harry, "maybe. .
He usually kept his wand with him at all times in the wizarding world, and finding himself without it in the midst of a scene like this made him feel very vulnerable.
A rustling noise nearby made all three of them jump. Winky the house-elf was fighting her way out of a clump of bushes nearby.  She was moving in a most peculiar fashion, apparently with great difficulty; it was as though someone invisible were trying to hold her back.
"There is bad wizards about!" she squeaked distractedly as she leaned forward and labored to keep running.  "People high - high in the air!  Winky is getting out of the way!"
And she disappeared into the trees on the other side of the path, panting and squeaking as she fought the force that was restraining her.
"What
 said Ron, looking curiously after Winky.  
t she run properly?"
"Bet she didn
 said Harry.  He was thinking of Dobby:  Every time he had tried to do something the Malfoys wouldn't like, the house-elf had been forced to start beating himself up.
 
 said Hermione indignantly. 
s slavery, that
s got her bewitched so she can
t anyone do something about it?"
"Well, the elves are happy, aren
  Ron said.  
House-elves is not supposed to have fun
s what she likes, being bossed around. . . ."
"It
 Hermione began hotly, 
re too lazy to -"
Another loud bang echoed from the edge of the wood.
"Let
 said Ron, and Harry saw him glance edgily at Hermione.  Perhaps there was truth in what Malfoy had said; perhaps Hermione was in more danger than they were.  They set off again, Harry still searching his pockets, even though he knew his wand wasn't there.
They followed the dark path deeper into the wood, still keeping an eye out for Fred, George, and Ginny.  They passed a group of goblins who were cackling over a sack of gold that they had undoubtedly won betting on the match, and who seemed quite unperturbed by the trouble at the campsite.  Farther still along the path, they walked into a patch of silvery light, and when they looked through the trees, they saw three tall and beautiful veela standing in a clearing, surrounded by a gaggle of young wizards, all of whom were talking very loudly.

  one of them shouted.  
m a dragon killer for the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures."
 "No, you
  yelled his friend.  
re a dishwasher at the Leaky Cauldron. . . . but I
ve killed about ninety so far -"
A third young wizard, whose pimples were visible even by the dim, silvery light of the veela, now cut in, "I

Harry snorted with laughter. He recognized the pimply wizard:  His name was Stan Shunpike, and he was in fact a conductor on the triple-decker Knight Bus.  He turned to tell Ron this, but Ron's face had gone oddly slack, and next second Ron was yelling,  
ve invented a broomstick that


 said Hermione, and she and Harry grabbed Ron firmly by the arms, wheeled him around, and marched him away. By the time the sounds of the veela and their admirers had faded completely, they were in the very heart of the wood.  They seemed to be alone now; everything was much quieter.
Harry looked around. 
ll hear anyone coming a mile off."
The words were hardly out of his mouth, when Ludo Bagman emerged from behind a tree right ahead of them.
Even by the feeble light of the two wands, Harry could see that a great change had come over Bagman.  He no longer looked buoyant and rosy-faced; there was no more spring in his step.  He looked very white and strained.
"Who
 he said, blinking down at them, trying to make out their faces.  

They looked at one another, surprised.

s a sort of riot going on," said Ron.
Bagman stared at him.
"What?"
"At the campsite. . . some people have got hold of a family of Muggles. . .
Bagman swore loudly.
"Damn them!" he said, looking quite distracted, and without another word, he Disapparated with a small pop!
"Not exactly on top of things, Mr. Bagman, is he?" said Hermione, frowning.
"He was a great Beater, though," said Ron, leading the way off the path into a small clearing, and sitting down on a patch of dry grass at the foot of a tree.  "The Wimbourne Wasps won the league three times in a row while he was with them."
He took his small figure of Krum out of his pocket, set it down on the ground, and watched it walk around. Like the real Krum, the model was slightly duck-footed and round-shouldered, much less impressive on his splayed feet than on his broomstick.  Harry was listening for noise from the campsite.  Everything seemed much quieter; perhaps the riot was over.
"I hope the others are okay," said Hermione after a while.
"They
 said Ron.

 said Harry, sitting down next to Ron and watching the small figure of Krum slouching over the fallen leaves.  
s always said he


d wipe the smirk off old Draco
 said Ron.

 said Hermione nervously. 
t get them down?"
"They will," said Ron reassuringly. "They

 
s out here tonight!"  said Hermione.  "I mean, how do they expect to get away with it?  Do you think they

But she broke off abruptly and looked over her shoulder. Harry and Ron looked quickly around too.  It sounded as though someone was staggering toward their clearing.  They waited, listening to the sounds of the uneven steps behind the dark trees.  But the footsteps came to a sudden halt.

 called Harry.
There was silence. Harry got to his feet and peered around the tree. It was too dark to see very far, but he could sense somebody standing just beyond the range of his vision.

s there?" he said.
And then, without warning, the silence was rent by a voice unlike any they had heard in the wood; and it uttered, not a panicked shout, but what sounded like a spell.
"MORSMORDRE!"
And something vast, green, and glittering erupted from the patch of darkness Harry
What the - ?
t understand why, but the only possible cause was the sudden appearance of the skull, which had now risen high enough to illuminate the entire wood like some grisly neon sign. He scanned the darkness for the person who had conjured the skull, but he couldn
Who's there?
Harry, come on, move!
What's the matter?
It's the Dark Mark, Harry!
You-Know-Who's sign!
Voldemort's - 

Harry turned - Ron was hurriedly scooping up his miniature Krum - the three of them started across the clearing - but before they had taken a few hurried steps, a series of popping noises announced the arrival of twenty wizards, appearing from thin air, surrounding them.
Harry whirled around, and in an instant, he registered one fact:  Each of these wizards had his wand out, and every wand was pointing right at himself, Ron, and Hermione.
Without pausing to think, he yelled, 

He seized the other two and pulled them down onto the ground.

  roared twenty voices - there was a blinding series of flashes and Harry felt the hair on his head ripple as though a powerful wind had swept the clearing.  Raising his head a fraction of an inch he saw jets of fiery red light flying over them from the wizards' wands, crossing one another, bouncing off tree trunks, rebounding into the darkness-- 

  yelled a voice he recognized. 
s my son!" 
Harry
Ron - Harry
Hermione - are you all right?
Out of the way, Arthur,
s face was taut with rage.
"Which of you did it?" he snapped, his sharp eyes darting between them. "Which of you conjured the Dark Mark?"
"We didn
 said Harry, gesturing up at the skull. 

t do anything!" said Ron, who was rubbing his elbow and looking indignantly at his father. "What did you want to attack us for?"
"Do not lie, sir!" shouted Mr. Crouch. His wand was still pointing directly at Ron, and his eyes were popping - he looked slightly mad. "You have been discovered at the scene of the crime!"
"Barty," whispered a witch in a long woolen dressing gown, "they
d never have been able to
"Where did the Mark come from, you three?" said Mr. Weasley quickly.
"Over there," said Hermione shakily, pointing at the place where they had heard the voice. "There was someone behind the trees. . . they shouted words - an incantation -"
 "Oh, stood over there, did they?" said Mr. Crouch, turning his popping eyes on Hermione now, disbelief etched all over his face. "Said an incantation, did they? You seem very well informed about how that Mark is summoned, missy -"
But none of the Ministry wizards apart from Mr. Crouch seemed to think it remotely likely that Harry, Ron, or Hermione had conjured the skull; on the contrary, at Hermione
We're too late,
They'll have Disapparated.
I don't think so,
s father. "Our Stunners went right through those trees. . . . There
Amos, be careful!
Yes! We got them! There's someone here! Unconscious! It's - but - blimey. .

ve got someone?" shouted Mr. Crouch, sounding highly disbelieving. "Who? Who is it?"
They heard snapping twigs, the rustling of leaves, and then crunching footsteps as Mr. Diggory reemerged from behind the trees. He was carrying a tiny, limp figure in his arms. Harry recognized the tea towel at once.  It was Winky.
Mr. Crouch did not move or speak as Mr. Diggory deposited his elf on the ground at his feet. The other Ministry wizards were all staring at Mr. Crouch. For a few seconds Crouch remained transfixed, his eyes blazing in his white face as he stared down at Winky. Then he appeared to come to life again.
"This - cannot - be," he said jerkily. "No -"
He moved quickly around Mr. Diggory and strode off toward the place where he had found Winky.
"No point, Mr. Crouch," Mr. Diggory called after him. "There

But Mr. Crouch did not seem prepared to take his word for it. They could hear him moving around and the rustling of leaves as he pushed the bushes aside, searching.

 Mr. Diggory said grimly, looking down at Winky's unconscious form. 
s house-elf. . . I mean to say..."
"Come off it, Amos," said Mr. Weasley quietly, "you don
s a wizard


 said Mr. Diggory, 


 said Mr. Weasley.

 Mr. Diggory held up a wand and showed it to Mr. Weasley. 
s clause three of the Code of Wand Use broken, for a start. No non-human creature is permitted to carry or use a wand."
Just then there was another pop, and Ludo Bagman Apparated right next to Mr. Weasley.  Looking breathless and disorientated, he spun on the spot, goggling upward at the emerald-green skull.
 "The Dark Mark!" he panted, almost trampling Winky as he turned inquiringly to his colleagues.  "Who did it?  Did you get them?  Barry!  What

Mr. Crouch had returned empty-handed.  His face was still ghostly white, and his hands and his toothbrush mustache were both twitching.

 said Bagman. 
t you at the match? Your elf was saving you a seat too - gulping gargoyles!"  Bagman had just noticed Winky lying at his feet.  "What happened to her?"
"I have been busy, Ludo," said Mr. Crouch, still talking in the same jerky fashion, barely moving his lips.  "And my elf has been stunned."
"Stunned? By you lot, you mean? But why - ?" 
Comprehension dawned suddenly on Bagman
No!
Winky?  Conjure the Dark Mark?  She wouldn't know how!  She'd need a wand, for a start!
And she had one,
I found her holding one, Ludo.  If it's all right with you, Mr. Crouch, I think we should hear what she's got to say for herself.
Ennervate!
s feet, and slowly, tremulously, raised her eyes to stare up into his face; then, more slowly still, she looked up into the sky. Harry could see the floating skull reflected twice in her enormous, glassy eyes. She gave a gasp, looked wildly around the crowded clearing, and burst into terrified sobs.
"Elf!" said Mr. Diggory sternly. "Do you know who I am?  I

Winky began to rock backward and forward on the ground, her breath coming in sharp bursts.  Harry was reminded forcibly of Dobby in his moments of terrified disobedience.

 said Mr. Diggory. 


 Winky gasped. 


 barked Mr. Diggory, brandishing it in front of her.  And as the wand caught the green light that was filling the clearing from the skull above, Harry recognized it

s mine!" he said
Everyone in the clearing looked at him.
"Excuse me?" said Mr. Diggory, incredulously.
"That
 said Harry. 


 repeated Mr. Diggory in disbelief.  


re talking to!"  said Mr. Weasley, very angrily.  "Is Harry Potter likely to conjure the Dark Mark?"
 "Er - of course not," mumbled Mr. Diggory. "Sorry. . . carried away. .
"I didn
 said Harry, jerking his thumb toward the trees beneath the skull. 


 said Mr. Diggory, his eyes hardening as he turned to look at Winky again, cowering at his feet.  
d have some fun with it, did you?"
"I is not doing magic with it, sir!"  squealed Winky, tears streaming down the sides of her squashed and bulbous nose.  "I is. . . I is. . . I is just picking it up, sir! i is not making the Dark Mark, sir, i is not knowing how!"
"It wasn
 said Hermione.  She looked very nervous, speaking up in front of all these Ministry wizards, yet determined all the same.  
s got a squeaky little voice, and the voice we heard doing the incantation was much deeper!"  She looked around at Harry and Ron, appealing for their support.  "It didn


 said Harry, shaking his head. 
t sound like an elf."
"Yeah, it was a human voice," said Ron.
"Well, we
 growled Mr. Diggory, looking unimpressed. 
s a simple way of discovering the last spell a wand performed, elf, did you know that?"
Winky trembled and shook her head frantically, her ears flapping, as Mr. Diggory raised his own wand again and placed it tip to tip with Harry
Prior Incantato!
Deletrius!
So,
I is not doing it!
I is not, I is not, I is not knowing how!  I is a good elf, I isn't using wands, I isn't knowing how!
You've been caught red-handed, elf!
Caught with the guilty wand in your hand!
Amos,
think about it. . . precious few wizards know how to do that spell. . . . Where would she have learned it?
Perhaps Amos is suggesting,
that I routinely teach my servants to conjure the Dark Mark?
Mr. Crouch.. . not. . . not at all.

  barked Mr. Crouch.  
s story, Amos?"
"Of course - everyone knows -" muttered Mr. Diggory, looking highly discomforted.
"And I trust you remember the many proofs I have given, over a long career, that I despise and detest the Dark Arts and those who practice them?"  Mr. Crouch shouted, his eyes bulging again.
"Mr. Crouch, I - I never suggested you had anything to do with it!"  Amos Diggory muttered again, now reddening behind his scrubby brown beard.
 "If you accuse my elf, you accuse me, Diggory!" shouted Mr. Crouch.  "Where else would she have learned to conjure it?"
"She - she might


 said Mr. Weasley. 
  he said kindly, turning to the elf, but she flinched as though he too was shouting at her. 
s wand?"
Winky was twisting the hem of her tea towel so violently that it was fraying beneath her fingers.
"I - I is finding it. . . finding it there, sir. . . ." she whispered, "there . . . in the trees, sir.
"You see, Amos?" said Mr. Weasley. "Whoever conjured the Mark could have Disapparated right after they
s wand behind.  A clever thing to do, not using their own wand, which could have betrayed them.  And Winky here had the misfortune to come across the wand moments later and pick it up."
"But then, she
 said Mr. Diggory impatiently.  

Winky began to tremble worse than ever. Her giant eyes flickered from Mr. Diggory, to Ludo Bagman, and onto Mr. Crouch.  Then she gulped and said, 
Amos,
I am fully aware that, in the ordinary course of events, you would want to take Winky into your department for questioning. I ask you, however, to allow me to deal with her.
t think much of this suggestion at all, but it was clear to Harry that Mr. Crouch was such an important member of the Ministry that he did not dare refuse him.
"You may rest assured that she will be punished," Mr. Crouch added coldly.
"M-m-master. . ." Winky stammered, looking up at Mr. Crouch, her eyes brimming with tears.  "M-m-master, p-p-please. . ."
Mr. Crouch stared back, his face somehow sharpened, each line upon it more deeply etched. There was no pity in his gaze.
"Winky has behaved tonight in a manner I would not have believed possible," he said slowly.  "I told her to remain in the tent.  I told her to stay there while I went to sort out the trouble.  And I find that she disobeyed me.  This means clothes."
"No!" shrieked Winky, prostrating herself at Mr. Crouch
No, master!  Not clothes, not clothes!
s feet.
"But she was frightened!"  Hermione burst out angrily, glaring at Mr. Crouch.  "Your elf
t blame her for wanting to get out of their way!"
Mr. Crouch took a step backward, freeing himself from contact with the elf, whom he was surveying as though she were something filthy and rotten that was contaminating his over-shined shoes.
"I have no use for a house-elf who disobeys me," he said coldly,  looking over at Hermione.  "I have no use for a servant who forgets what is due to her master, and to her master

Winky was crying so hard that her sobs echoed around the clearing.  There was a very nasty silence, which was ended by Mr. Weasley, who said quietly, 
ll take my lot back to the tent, if nobody
s told us all it can - if Harry could have it back, please -"
Mr. Diggory handed Harry his wand and Harry pocketed it.
"Come on, you three," Mr. Weasley said quietly.  But Hermione didn
Hermione!
What's going to happen to Winky?
I don't know,
The way they were treating her!
Mr. Diggory, calling her 'elf' all the time. . . and Mr. Crouch!  He knows she didn't do it and he's still going to sack her! He didn't care how frightened she'd been, or how upset she was - it was like she wasn't even human!
Well, she's not,
That doesn't mean she hasn't got feelings, Ron.  It's disgusting the way -
Hermione, I agree with you,
but now is not the time to discuss elf rights.  I want to get back to the tent as fast as we can. What happened to the others?
We lost them in the dark,
Dad, why was everyone so uptight about that skull thing?
I'll explain everything back at the tent,
What's going on in there?
Who conjured it?
Arthur - it's not - Him?
Of course it's not Him,
We don't know who it was; it looks like they Disapparated.  Now excuse me, please, I want to get to bed.
s head was poking out of the boys
Dad, what's going on?
Fred, George, and Ginny got back okay, but the others -
I've got them here,
Did you get them, Dad?
The person who conjured the Mark?
No,
We found Barry Crouch's elf holding Harry's wand, but we're none the wiser about who actually conured the Mark.
What?
Harry's wand?
Mr. Crouch's elf
Well, Mr. Crouch is quite right to get rid of an elf like that!
Running away when he'd expressly told her not to. . . embarrassing him in front of the whole Ministry. . . how would that have looked, if she'd been brought up in front of the Department for the Regulation and Control -
She didn't do anything - she was just in the wrong place at the wrong time!
Hermione, a wizard in Mr. Crouch's position can't afford a house-elf who's going to run amok with a wand!
She didn't run amok!
She just picked it up off the ground!
Look, can someone just explain what that skull thing was?
It wasn't hurting anyone. . . . Why's it such a big deal?
I told you, it's You-Know-Who's symbol, Ron,
I read about it in The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts.
And it hasn't been seen for thirteen years,
Of course people panicked. . . it was almost like seeing You-Know-Who back again.
I don't get it,
I mean. . . it's still only a shape in the sky. . .

 said Mr. Weasley.  
re too young. Just picture coming home and finding the Dark Mark hovering over your house, and knowing what you
  Mr. Weasley winced. 
s worst fear. . . the very worst..
There was silence for a moment. Then Bill, removing the sheet from his arm to check on his cut, said, "Well, it didn
d got near enough to unmask any of them.  We caught the Robertses before they hit the ground, though.  They


 said Harry. 


s what You-Know-Who
 said Bill.  
s left of them tonight - the ones who managed to keep themselves out of Azkaban, anyway."
"We can
 said Mr. Weasley.  
 he added hopelessly.

 said Ron suddenly . 


s supporters -" Harry began. Everybody flinched - like most of the wizarding world, the Weasleys always avoided saying Voldemort
Sorry,
What were You-Know-Who's supporters up to, levitating Muggles? I mean, what was the point?
The point?
Harry, that's their idea of fun. Half the Muggle killings back when You-Know-Who was in power were done for fun.  I suppose they had a few drinks tonight and couldn't resist reminding us all that lots of them are still at large.  A nice little reunion for them,
But if they were the Death Eaters, why did they Disapparate when they saw the Dark Mark?
They'd have been pleased to see it, wouldn't they?
Use your brains, Ron,
If they really were Death Eaters, they worked very hard to keep out of Azkaban when You-Know-Who lost power, and told all sorts of lies about him forcing them to kill and torture people.  I bet they'd be even more frightened than the rest of us to see him come back.  They denied they'd ever been involved with him when he lost his powers, and went back to their daily lives. . . . I don't reckon he'd be over-pleased with them, do you?
So. . . whoever conjured the Dark Mark. . .
were they doing it to show support for the Death Eaters, or to scare them away?
Your guess is as good as ours, Hermione,
But I'll tell you this. . . it was only the Death Eaters who ever knew how to conjure it. I'd be very surprised if the person who did it hadn't been a Death Eater once, even if they're not now. . Listen, it's very late, and if your mother hears what's happened she'll be worried sick. We'll get a few more hours sleep and then try and get an early Portkey out of here.
s mark had appeared in the sky.  What did these things mean?
He thought of the letter he had written to Sirius before leaving Privet Drive.  Would Sirius have gotten it yet?  When would he reply?  Harry lay looking up at the canvas, but no flying fantasies came to him now to ease him to sleep, and it was a long time after Charlie
Merry Christmas.
He'll be all right,
Sometimes, when a person's memory's modified, it makes him a bit disorientated for a while...and that was a big thing they had to make him forget.
Oh thank goodness, thank goodness!
Arthur - I've been so worried - so worried-
s neck, and the Daily Prophet fell out of her limp hand onto the ground.  Looking down, Harry saw the headline:  SCENES OF TERROR AT THE QUIDDITCH WORLD CUP, complete with a twinkling black-and-white photograph of the Dark Mark over the treetops. 
"You
 Mrs. Weasley muttered distractedly, releasing Mr. Weasley and staring around at them all with red eyes, 
re alive. . . . Oh boys. .
And to everybody
Ouch!  Mum - you're strangling us -
I shouted at you before you left!
It's all I've been thinking about!  What if You-Know-Who had got you, and the last thing I ever said to you was that you didn't get enough OW.L.s?  Oh Fred. . . George. .
Come on, now, Molly, we're all perfectly okay,
Bill,
pick up that paper, I want to see what it says. . .
I knew it,
Ministry blunders. . . culprits not apprehended. . . lax security. . . Dark wizards running unchecked... national disgrace. . . Who wrote this?  Ah. . . of course. . . Rita Skeeter.
That woman's got it in for the Ministry of Magic!
Last week she was saying we're wasting our time quibbling about cauldron thickness, when we should be stamping out vampires!  As if it wasn't specifically stated in paragraph twelve of the Guidelines for the Treatment of Non-Wizard Part-Humans --
Do us a favor, Perce,
and shut up.
I'm mentioned,
Where?
If I'd seen that, I'd have known you were alive!
Not by name,
Listen to this:  'If the terrified wizards and witches who waited breathlessly for news at the edge of the wood expected reassurance from the Ministry ofMagic, they were sadly disappointed. A Ministry official emerged some time after the appearance of the Dark Mark alleging that nobody had been hurt, but reflising to give any more information. Whether this statement will be enough to quash the rumors that several bodies were removed from the woods an hour later, remains to be seen.'  Oh really,
Nobody was hurt.  What was I supposed to say?  Rumors that several bodies were removed from the woods. . . well, there certainly will be rumors now she's printed that.
Molly, I'm going to have to go into the office; this is going to take some smoothing over.
I'll come with you, Father,
Mr. Crouch will need all hands on deck. And I can give him my cauldron report in person.
Arthur, you're supposed to be on holiday! This hasn't got anything to do with your office; surely they can handle this without you?
I've got to go, Molly,
I've made things worse.  I'll just change into my robes and I'll be off. . . .
Mrs. Weasley,
Hedwig hasn't arrived with a letter for me, has she?
Hedwig, dear?
No. . . no, there hasn't been any post at all.
All right if I go and dump my stuff in your room, Ron?
Yeah. . . think I will too,
Hermione?
Yes,
What's up, Harry?
There's something I haven't told you,
On Saturday morning, I woke up with my scar hurting again.
s and Hermione
But - he wasn't there, was he?  You-Know-Who?  I mean - last time your scar kept hurting, he was at Hogwarts, wasn't he?
I'm sure he wasn't on Privet Drive,
But I was dreaming about him.. . him and Peter - you know, Wormtail.  I can't remember all of it now, but they were plotting to kill...someone.
me,
t bring himself to make Hermione look any more horrified than she already did.
"It was only a dream," said Ron bracingly.  "Just a nightmare."
"Yeah, but was it, though?" said Harry, turning to look out of the window at the brightening sky.  "It
t it?. . . My scar hurts, and three days later the Death Eaters are on the march, and Voldemort
s up in the sky again."
"Don
  Ron hissed through gritted teeth.

  Harry went on, ignoring Ron. 

Professor Trelawney was their Divination teacher at Hogwarts.  Hermione's terrified look vanished as she let out a derisive snort.

t going to pay attention to anything that old fraud says?"
"You weren
 said Harry. 
t hear her. This time was different. I told you, she went into a trance - a real one.  And she said the Dark Lord would rise again. . . greater and more terrible than ever before. . . and he

There was a silence in which Ron fidgeted absentmindedly with a hole in his Chudley Cannons bedspread.

  Hermione asked.  


 said Harry, shrugging. 
m waiting for his answer."
"Good thinking!" said Ron, his expression clearing. "I bet Sirius


d get back to me quickly," said Harry.
"But we don
t he?" said Hermione reasonably.  "Hedwig


 said Harry, but there was a leaden feeling in his stomach as he looked out of the window at the Hedwig-free sky.

 said Ron. 


 said Hermione, in an I-don't-think-you're-being-very-sensitive sort of voice, 
t want to play Quidditch right now... . He
s tired. . . . We all need to go to bed..."
"Yeah, I want to play Quidditch," said Harry suddenly.  "Hang on, I

Hermione left the room, muttering something that sounded very much like 


 Neither Mr. Weasley nor Percy was at home much over the following week. Both left the house each morning before the rest of the family got up, and returned well after dinner every night.

s been an absolute uproar," Percy told them importantly the Sunday evening before they were due to return to Hogwarts.  "I
t open a Howler straight away, it explodes.  Scorch marks all over my desk and my best quill reduced to cinders."
"Why are they all sending Howlers?"  asked Ginny, who was mending her copy of One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi with Spellotape on the rug in front of the living room fire.
"Complaining about security at the World Cup," said Percy.  "They want compensation for their ruined property.  Mundungus Fletcher
ve got his number.  I know for a fact he was sleeping under a cloak propped on sticks."
Mrs. Weasley glanced at the grandfather clock in the corner.  Harry liked this clock.  It was completely useless if you wanted to know the time, but otherwise very informative.  It had nine golden hands, and each of them was engraved with one of the Weasley family
Home,
school,
work
traveling,
lost,
hospital,
prison,
mortal peril.
home
s, which was the longest, was still pointing to "work."  Mrs. Weasley sighed.
"Your father hasn
 she said.  
re working him far too hard.  His dinner
t come home soon."
"Well, Father feels he
t he?" said Percy. "If truth be told, he was a tad unwise to make a public statement without clearing it with his Head of Department first -"
"Don
  said Mrs. Weasley, flaring up at once.

t said anything, old Rita would just have said it was disgraceful that nobody from the Ministry had commented," said Bill, who was playing chess with Ron.  "Rita Skeeter never makes anyone look good.  Remember, she interviewed all the Gringotts
a long-haired pillock


 said Mrs. Weasley gently.  
d just let me -"
"No, Mum."
Rain lashed against the living room window. Hermione was immersed in The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 4, copies of which Mrs. Weasley had bought for her, Harry, and Ron in Diagon Alley.  Charlie was darning a fireproof balaclava.  Harry was polishing his Firebolt, the broomstick servicing kit Hermione had given him for his thirteenth birthday open at his feet. Fred and George were sitting in a far corner, quills out, talking in whispers, their heads bent over a piece of parchment.
"What are you two up to?" said Mrs. Weasley sharply, her eyes on the twins.
"Homework," said Fred vaguely.
"Don
re still on holiday," said Mrs. Weasley.
"Yeah, we
 said George.

re not by any chance writing out a new order form, are you?" said Mrs. Weasley shrewdly.  "You wouldn
 Wizard Wheezes, by any chance?"
"Now, Mum," said Fred, looking up at her, a pained look on his face. "If the Hogwarts Express crashed tomorrow, and George and I died, how would you feel to know that the last thing we ever heard from you was an unfounded accusation?"
Everyone laughed, even Mrs. Weasley.
"Oh your father
  she said suddenly, looking up at the clock again.
Mr. Weasley's hand had suddenly spun from 
 to 
; a second later it had shuddered to a halt on 
 with the others, and they heard him calling from the kitchen.

 called Mrs. Weasley, hurrying out of the room.
A few moments later, Mr. Weasley came into the warm living room carrying his dinner on a tray.  He looked completely exhausted.

s really in the fire now," he told Mrs. Weasley as he sat down in an armchair near the hearth and toyed unenthusiastically with his somewhat shriveled cauliflower. "Rita Skeeter
s found out about poor old Bertha going missing, so that


 said Percy swiftly.

t found out about Winky," said Mr. Weasley irritably. "There
s worth of headlines in his house-elf being caught holding the wand that conjured the Dark Mark."
"I thought we were all agreed that that elf, while irresponsible, did not conjure the Mark?"  said Percy hotly.
"If you ask me, Mr. Crouch is very lucky no one at the Daily Prophet knows how mean he is to elves!" said Hermione angrily.
"Now look here, Hermione!" said Percy. "A high-ranking Ministry official like Mr. Crouch deserves unswerving obedience from his servants -"
 "His slave, you mean!"  said Hermione, her voice rising passionately, "because he didn


d all better go upstairs and check that you
 said Mrs. Weasley, breaking up the argument.  

Harry repacked his broomstick servicing kit, put his Firebolt over his shoulder, and went back upstairs with Ron.  The rain sounded even louder at the top of the house, accompanied by loud whistlings and moans from the wind, not to mention sporadic howls from the ghoul who lived in the attic.  Pigwidgeon began twittering and zooming around his cage when they entered. The sight of the half-packed trunks seemed to have sent him into a frenzy of excitement.
 
 said Ron, throwing a packet across to Harry. 

Harry poked a few Owl Treats through the bars of Pigwidgeon's cage, then turned to his trunk.  Hedwig's cage stood next to it, still empty.

s been over a week," Harry said, looking at Hedwig
Ron, you don't reckon Sirius has been caught, do you?
Nah, it would've been in the Daily Prophet,
The Ministry would want to show they'd caught someone, wouldn't they?
Yeah, I suppose. . . .
Look, here's the stuff Mum got for you in Diagon Alley. And she's got some gold out of your vault for you. . . and she's washed all your socks.
s camp bed and dropped the money bag and a load of socks next to it.  Harry started unwrapping the shopping.  Apart from The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 4, by Miranda Goshawk, he had a handful of new quills, a dozen rolls of parchment, and refills for his potion-making kit - he had been running low on spine of lionfish and essence of belladonna.  He was just piling underwear into his cauldron when Ron made a loud noise of disgust behind him.
"What is that supposed to be?"
He was holding up something that looked to Harry like a long, maroon velvet dress. It had a moldy-looking lace frill at the collar and matching lace cuffs.
There was a knock on the door, and Mrs. Weasley entered, carrying an armful of freshly laundered Hogwarts robes.
 "Here you are," she said, sorting them into two piles. "Now, mind you pack them properly so they don


ve given me Ginny
 said Ron, handing it out to her.

t," said Mrs. Weasley. "That


 said Ron, looking horror-struck.

 repeated Mrs. Weasley. 
re supposed to have dress robes this year. . . robes for formal occasions."
"You
 said Ron in disbelief.  
m not wearing that, no way."
"Everyone wears them, Ron!" said Mrs. Weasley crossly. "They
s got some for smart parties!"
"I
 said Ron stubbornly.

t be so silly," said Mrs. Weasley. "You
re on your list!  I got some for Harry too. . . show him, Harry... ."
In some trepidation, Harry opened the last parcel on his camp bed. It wasn
t have any lace on them at all - in fact, they were more or less the same as his school ones, except that they were bottle green instead of black.
"I thought they
 said Mrs. Weasley fondly.

re okay!" said Ron angrily, looking at Harry
Why couldn't I have some like that?
Because. . . well, I had to get yours secondhand, and there wasn't a lot of choice!
I'm never wearing them,
Never.
Fine,
Go naked. And, Harry, make sure you get a picture of him.  Goodness knows I could do with a laugh.
Why is everything I own rubbish?
s beak. 

CHAPTER ELEVEN - ABOARD THE HOGWART EXPRESS

		There was a definite end-of-the-holidays gloom in the air when Harry awoke next morning.  Heavy rain was still splattering against the window as he got dressed in jeans and a sweatshirt; they would change into their school robes on the Hogwarts Express.
		He, Ron, Fred, and George had just reached the first-floor landing on their way down to breakfast, when Mrs. Weasley appeared at the foot of the stairs, looking harassed.
		"Arthur!"  she called up the staircase. "Arthur!  Urgent message from the Ministry!"
		Harry flattened himself against the wall as Mr. Weasley came clattering past with his robes on back-to-front and hurtled out of sight.  When Harry and the others entered the kitchen, they saw Mrs. Weasley rummaging anxiously in the drawers - "I
 - and Mr. Weasley bending over the fire, talking to -
Harry shut his eyes hard and opened them again to make sure that they were working properly.
Amos Diggory's head was sitting in the middle of the flames like a large, bearded egg. It was talking very fast, completely unperturbed by the sparks flying around it and the flames licking its ears.

you-call-
ve got to get over there --"
"Here!" said Mrs. Weasley breathlessly, pushing a piece of parchment, a bottle of ink, and a crumpled quill into Mr. Weasley
- it's a real stroke of luck I heard about it,
s head.  "I had to come into the office early to send a couple of owls, and I found the Improper Use of Magic lot all setting off -- if Rita Skeeter gets hold of this one, Arthur --"
"What does Mad-Eye say happened?"  asked Mr. Weasley, unscrewing the ink bottle, loading up his quill, and preparing to take notes.
Mr. Diggory
Says he heard an intruder in his yard. Says he was creeping toward the house, but was ambushed by his dustbins.
What did the dustbins do?
Made one hell of a noise and fired rubbish everywhere, as far as I can tell,
Apparently one of them was still rocketing around when the please-men turned up -
And what about the intruder?
Arthur, you know Mad-Eye,
s head, rolling its eyes again. "Someone creeping into his yard in the dead of night?  More likely there
s had it -- think of his record -- we


 said Mr. Weasley, still writing very fast, his brow furrowed. 
t use his wand?  He didn


ll bet he leapt out of bed and started jinxing everything he could reach through the window," said Mr. Diggory, "but they
t any casualties."
"All right, I
 Mr. Weasley said, and he stuffed the parchment with his notes on it into his pocket and dashed out of the kitchen again.
Mr. Diggory's head looked around at Mrs. Weasley.

 it said, more calmly, 
s the only one who can get Mad-Eye off, and Mad-Eye


 said Mrs. Weasley. 
t have a bit of toast or anything before you go?"
"Oh go on, then," said Mr. Diggory.
Mrs. Weasley took a piece of buttered toast from a stack on the kitchen table, put it into the fire tongs, and transferred it into Mr. Diggory
Fanks,
I'd better hurry - you have a good term, boys, said Mr. Weasley to Harry, Ron, and the twins, fastening a cloak over his shoulders and preparing to Disapparate.  
s Cross?"
"Of course I will," she said. "You just look after Mad-Eye, we

As Mr. Weasley vanished, Bill and Charlie entered the kitchen.

 Bill asked. 
s he been up to now."
"He says someone tried to break into his house last night," said Mrs. Weasley.
"Mad-Eye Moody?" said George thoughtfully, spreading marmalade on his toast. "Isn


 said Mrs. Weasley sternly.

t he?"  said Fred quietly as Mrs. Weasley left the room.  "Birds of a feather. . ."
"Moody was a great wizard in his time," said Bill.
"He
s, isn
 said Charlie.

s not what you
  said Fred.  
s a genius and everything.. ."
"Who is Mad-Eye?" asked Harry.
"He
 said Charlie. 
 he added, seeing Harry's blank look 
s been getting really paranoid in his old age.  Doesn

Bill and Charlie decided to come and see everyone off at King's Cross station, but Percy, apologizing most profusely, said that he really needed to get to work.

t justify taking more time off at the moment," he told them. "Mr. Crouch is really starting to rely on me."
"Yeah, you know what, Percy?"  said George seriously.  "I reckon he

Mrs. Weasley had braved the telephone in the village post office to order three ordinary Muggle taxis to take them into London.

 Mrs. Weasley whispered to Harry as they stood in the rain-washed yard, watching the taxi drivers heaving six heavy Hogwarts trunks into their cars.  
t any to spare. . . . Oh dear, they don

Harry didn't like to tell Mrs. Weasley that Muggle taxi drivers rarely transported overexcited owls, and Pigwidgeon was making an earsplitting racket.  Nor did it help that a number of Filibuster's Fabulous No-Heat, Wet-Start Fireworks went off unexpectedly when Fred's trunk sprang open, causing the driver carrying it to yell with fright and pain as Crookshanks clawed his way up the man's leg.
The journey was uncomfortable, owing to the fact that they were jammed in the back of the taxis with their trunks. Crookshanks took quite a while to recover from the fireworks, and by the time they entered London, Harry, Ron, and Hermione were all severely scratched. They were very relieved to get out at King's Cross, even though the rain was coming down harder than ever, and they got soaked carrying their trunks across the busy road and into the station.
Harry was used to getting onto platform nine and three-quarters by now.  It was a simple matter of walking straight through the apparently solid barrier dividing platforms nine and ten. The only tricky part was doing this in an unobtrusive way, so as to avoid attracting Muggle attention. They did it in groups today; Harry, Ron, and Hermione (the most conspicuous, since they were accompanied by Pigwidgeon and Crookshanks) went first; they leaned casually against the barrier, chatting unconcernedly, and slid sideways through it. . . and as they did so, platform nine and three-quarters materialized in front of them.
The Hogwarts Express, a gleaming scarlet steam engine, was already there, clouds of steam billowing from it, through which the many Hogwarts students and parents on the platform appeared like dark ghosts.  Pigwidgeon became noisier than ever in response to the hooting of many owls through the mist.  Harry, Ron, and Hermione set off to find seats, and were soon stowing their luggage in a compartment halfway along the train.  They then hopped back down onto the platform to say good-bye to Mrs. Weasley, Bill, and Charlie.

 said Charlie, grinning, as he hugged Ginny good-bye.

 said Fred keenly.

ll see," said Charlie. "Just don
s 
 after all."
 "Yeah, I sort of wish I were back at Hogwarts this year," said Bill, hands in his pockets, looking almost wistfully at the train.
"Why?"  said George impatiently.
"You
 said Bill, his eyes twinkling. 


 said Ron.
But at that moment, the whistle blew, and Mrs. Weasley chivvied them toward the train doors.

 said Hermione as they climbed on board, closed the door, and leaned out of the window to talk to her.

 said Harry.

 said Mrs. Weasley. 
d invite you for Christmas, but...well, I expect you


 said Ron irritably.  
you three know that we don


ll find out this evening, I expect," said Mrs. Weasley, smiling. "It
m very glad they


  said Harry, Ron, Fred, and George together. 

m sure Professor Dumbledore will tell you. . . . Now, behave, won
t you, Fred?  And you, George?"
The pistons hissed loudly and the train began to move.
"Tell us what
  Fred bellowed out of the window as Mrs. Weasley, Bill, and Charlie sped away from them.  

 But Mrs. Weasley only smiled and waved.  Before the train had rounded the corner, she, Bill, and Charlie had Disapparated.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione went back to their compartment.  The thick rain splattering the windows made it very difficult to see out of them.  Ron undid his trunk, pulled out his maroon dress robes, and flung them over Pigwidgeon's cage to muffle his hooting.

s happening at Hogwarts," he said grumpily, sitting down next to Harry.  "At the World Cup, remember?  But my own mother won


  Hermione whispered suddenly, pressing her finger to her lips and pointing toward the compartment next to theirs.  Harry and Ron listened, and heard a familiar drawling voice drifting in through the open door.

s such a Mudblood-lover - and Durmstrang doesn
t like the idea of me going to school so far away.  Father says Durmstrang takes a far more sensible line than Hogwarts about the Dark Arts.  Durmstrang students actually learn them, not just the defense rubbish we do. . . ."
Hermione got up, tiptoed to the compartment door, and slid it shut, blocking out Malfoy
So he thinks Durmstrang would have suited him, does he?
I wish he had gone, then we wouldn't have to put up with him.
Durmstrang's another wizarding school?
Yes,
and it's got a horrible reputation.  According to An Appraisal ofMagical Education in Europe, it puts a lot of emphasis on the Dark Arts.
I think I've heard of it,
Where is it?  What country?
Well, nobody knows, do they?
Er - why not?
There's traditionally been a lot of rivalry between all the magic schools.  Durmstrang and Beauxbatons like to conceal their whereabouts so nobody can steal their secrets,
Come off it,
Durmstrang's got to be about the same size as Hogwarts -- how are you going to hide a great big castle?
But Hogwarts is hidden,
Everyone knows that.. . well, everyone who's read Hogwarts, A History, anyway.
Just you, then,
So go on - how d'you hide a place like Hogwarts?
It's bewitched,
If a Muggle looks at it, all they see is a moldering old ruin with a sign over the entrance saying DANGER, DO NOT ENTER, UNSAFE.
So Durmstrang'll just look like a ruin to an outsider too?
Maybe,
or it might have Muggle-repelling charms on it, like the World Cup stadium.  And to keep foreign wizards from finding it, they'll have made it Unplottable -
Come again?
Well, you can enchant a building so it's impossible to plot on a map, can't you?
Er. . . if you say so,
But I think Durmstrang must be somewhere in the far north,
Somewhere very cold, because they've got fur capes as part of their uniforms.
Ah, think of the possibilities,
It would've been so easy to push Malfoy off a glacier and make it look like an accident... . Shame his mother likes him. . . .
Troy - Mullet - Moran!
 conversation as they relived the Cup match.
"Gran didn
 he said miserably. 
t buy tickets. It sounded amazing though."
"It was," said Ron. "Look at this, Neville. . .
He rummaged in his trunk up in the luggage rack and pulled out the miniature figure of Viktor Krum.
"Oh wow," said Neville enviously as Ron tipped Krum onto his pudgy hand.
"We saw him right up close, as well," said Ron. "We were in the Top Box -"
"For the first and last time in your life, Weasley."
Draco Malfoy had appeared in the doorway. Behind him stood Crabbe and Goyle, his enormous, thuggish cronies, both of whom appeared to have grown at least a foot during the summer. Evidently they had overheard the conversation through the compartment door, which Dean and Seamus had left ajar.
"Don
 said Harry coolly.

 said Malfoy, pointing at Pigwidgeon's cage. A sleeve of Ron's dress robes was dangling from it, swaying with the motion of the train, the moldy lace cuff very obvious.
Ron made to stuff the robes out of sight, but Malfoy was too quick for him; he seized the sleeve and pulled.

 said Malfoy in ecstasy, holding up Ron's robes and showing Crabbe and Goyle, 
t thinking of wearing these, were you? I mean - they were very fashionable in about eighteen ninety. . .
"Eat dung, Malfoy!" said Ron, the same color as the dress robes as he snatched them back out of Malfoy
So. . . going to enter, Weasley?  Going to try and bring a bit of glory to the family name?  There's money involved as well, you know. . . you'd be able to afford some decent robes if you won. . . .
What are you talking about?
Are you going to enter?
I suppose you will, Potter?  You never miss a chance to show off, do you?
Either explain what you're on about or go away, Malfoy,
s pale face
"Don
t know?" he said delightedly. "You
t even know?  My God, my father told me about it ages ago. . . heard it from Cornelius Fudge.  But then, Father
s too junior to know about it, Weasley. . . yes. . . they probably don

Laughing once more, Malfoy beckoned to Crabbe and Goyle, and the three of them disappeared.
Ron got to his feet and slammed the sliding compartment door so hard behind them that the glass shattered.

 said Hermione reproachfully, and she pulled out her wand, muttered 
 and the glass shards flew back into a single pane and back into the door.

t.. . ." Ron snarled. "Father
. . . Dad could


 said Hermione quietly. 
t let Malfoy get to you, Ron -"
 "Him! Get to me!?  As if!"  said Ron, picking up one of the remaining Cauldron Cakes and squashing it into a pulp.
Ron
t talk much as they changed into their school robes, and was still glowering when the Hogwarts Express slowed down at last and finally stopped in the pitch-darkness of Hogsmeade station.
As the train doors opened, there was a rumble of thunder overhead. Hermione bundled up Crookshanks in her cloak and Ron left his dress robes over Pigwidgeon as they left the train, heads bent and eyes narrowed against the downpour. The rain was now coming down so thick and fast that it was as though buckets of ice-cold water were being emptied repeatedly over their heads.
"Hi, Hagrid!"  Harry yelled, seeing a gigantic silhouette at the far end of the platform.
"All righ
  Hagrid bellowed back, waving. 
 drown!"
First years traditionally reached Hogwarts Castle by sailing across the lake with Hagrid.
"Oooh, I wouldn
 said Hermione fervently, shivering as they inched slowly along the dark platform with the rest of the crowd. A hundred horseless carriages stood waiting for them outside the station.  Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Neville climbed gratefully into one of them, the door shut with a snap, and a few moments later, with a great lurch, the long procession of carriages was rumbling and splashing its way up the track toward Hogwarts Castle.

CHAPTER TWELVE - THE TRIWIZARD TOURNAMENT

		Through the gates, flanked with statues of winged boars, and up the sweeping drive the carriages trundled, swaying dangerously in what was fast becoming a gale. Leaning against the window, Harry could see Hogwarts coming nearer, its many lighted windows blurred and shimmering behind the thick curtain of rain. Lightning flashed across the sky as their carriage came to a halt before the great oak front doors, which stood at the top of a flight of stone steps. People who had occupied the carriages in front were already hurrying up the stone steps into the castle. Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Neville jumped down from their carriage and dashed up the steps too, looking up only when they were safely inside the cavernous, torch-lit entrance hall, with its magnificent marble staircase.
		
 said Ron, shaking his head and sending water everywhere, 
s going to overflow. I

 A large, red, water-filled balloon had dropped from out of the ceiling onto Ron's head and exploded.  Drenched and sputtering, Ron staggered sideways into Harry, just as a second water bomb dropped - narrowly missing Hermione, it burst at Harry's feet, sending a wave of cold water over his sneakers into his socks.  People all around them shrieked and started pushing one another in their efforts to get out of the line of fire.  Harry looked up and saw, floating twenty feet above them, Peeves the Poltergeist, a little man in a bell-covered hat and orange bow tie, his wide, malicious face contorted with concentration as he took aim again.

  yelled an angry voice. 

Professor McGonagall, Deputy Headmistress and head of Gryffindor House, had come dashing out of the Great Hall; she skidded on the wet floor and grabbed Hermione around the neck to stop herself from falling.



s all right, Professor!"  Hermione gasped, massaging her throat.
"Peeves, get down here NOW!" barked Professor McGonagall, straightening her pointed hat and glaring upward through her square-rimmed spectacles.
"Not doing nothing!"  cackled Peeves, lobbing a water bomb at several fifth-year girls, who screamed and dived into the Great Hall.  "Already wet, aren
  And he aimed another bomb at a group of second years who had just arrived.

 shouted Professor McGonagall.  
m warning you, Peeves -"
Peeves stuck out his tongue, threw the last of his water bombs into the air, and zoomed off up the marble staircase, cackling insanely.
"Well, move along, then!"  said Professor McGonagall sharply to the bedraggled crowd.  "Into the Great Hall, come on!"
Harry, Ron, and Hermione slipped and slid across the entrance hall and through the double doors on the right, Ron muttering furiously under his breath as he pushed his sopping hair off his face.
The Great Hall looked its usual splendid self, decorated for the start-of-term feast. Golden plates and goblets gleamed by the light of hundreds and hundreds of candles, floating over the tables in midair.  The four long House tables were packed with chattering students; at the top of the Hall, the staff sat along one side of a fifth table, facing their pupils.  It was much warmer in here.  Harry, Ron, and Hermione walked past the Slytherins, the Ravenclaws, and the Hufflepuffs, and sat down with the rest of the Gryffindors at the far side of the Hall, next to Nearly Headless Nick, the Gryffindor ghost.  Pearly white and semitransparent, Nick was dressed tonight in his usual doublet, but with a particularly large ruff, which served the dual purpose of looking extra-festive, and insuring that his head didn
Good evening,
Says who?
Hope they hurry up with the Sorting. I'm starving.
t been present at one since his own.  He was quite looking forward to it.  Just then, a highly excited, breathless voice called down the table.
"Hiya, Harry!"
It was Colin Creevey, a third year to whom Harry was something of a hero.
"Hi, Colin," said Harry warily.
"Harry, guess what?  Guess what, Harry?  My brother


 said Harry.

s really excited!"  said Colin, practically bouncing up and down in his seat.  "I just hope he


 said Harry.  He turned back to Hermione, Ron, and Nearly Headless Nick.  
t they?"  he said.  He was judging by the Weasleys, all seven of whom had been put into Gryffindor.
"Oh no, not necessarily," said Hermione.  "Parvati Patil
s in Ravenclaw, and they
d think they
t you?"
Harry looked up at the staff table.  There seemed to be rather more empty seats there than usual.  Hagrid, of course, was still fighting his way across the lake with the first years; Professor McGonagall was presumably supervising the drying of the entrance hall floor, but there was another empty chair too, and Harry couldn
Where's the new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher?
s favorite by far had been Professor Lupin, who had resigned last year. He looked up and down the staff table.  There was definitely no new face there.
"Maybe they couldn
  said Hermione, looking anxious.
Harry scanned the table more carefully.  Tiny little Professor Flitwick, the Charms teacher, was sitting on a large pile of cushions beside Professor Sprout, the Herbology teacher, whose hat was askew over her flyaway gray hair.  She was talking to Professor Sinistra of the Astronomy department.  On Professor Sinistra's other side was the sallow-faced, hook-nosed, greasy-haired Potions master, Snape - Harry's least favorite person at Hogwarts.  Harry's loathing of Snape was matched only by Snape's hatred of him, a hatred which had, if possible, intensified last year, when Harry had helped Sirius escape right under Snape's overlarge nose - Snape and Sirius had been enemies since their own school days.
On Snape's other side was an empty seat, which Harry guessed was Professor McGonagall's.  Next to it, and in the very center of the table, sat Professor Dumbledore, the headmaster, his sweeping silver hair and beard shining in the candlelight, his magnificent deep green robes embroidered with many stars and moons.  The tips of Dumbledore's long, thin fingers were together and he was resting his chin upon them, staring up at the ceiling through his half-moon spectacles as though lost in thought.  Harry glanced up at the ceiling too.  It was enchanted to look like the sky outside, and he had never seen it look this stormy.  Black and purple clouds were swirling across it, and as another thunderclap sounded outside, a fork of lightning flashed across it.

 Ron moaned, beside Harry, 

 The words were no sooner out of his mouth than the doors of the Great Hall opened and silence fell.  Professor McGonagall was leading a long line of first years up to the top of the Hall.  If Harry, Ron, and Hermione were wet, it was nothing to how these first years looked. They appeared to have swum across the lake rather than sailed.  All of them were shivering with a combination of cold and nerves as they filed along the staff table and came to a halt in a line facing the rest of the school - all of them except the smallest of the lot, a boy with mousy hair, who was wrapped in what Harry recognized as Hagrid's moleskin overcoat.  The coat was so big for him that it hooked as though he were draped in a furry black circus tent.  His small face protruded from over the collar, looking almost painfully excited.  When he had lined up with his terrified-looking peers, he caught Colin Creevey's eye, gave a double thumbs-up, and mouthed, I fell in the lake!  He looked positively delighted about it.
Professor McGonagall now placed a three-legged stool on the ground before the first years and, on top of it, an extremely old, dirty patched wizard's hat.  The first years stared at it. So did everyone else.  For a moment, there was silence.  Then a long tear near the brim opened wide like a mouth, and the hat broke into song:

A thousand years or more ago,
		When I was newly sewn,
There lived four wizards of renown,
Whose names are still well known:
Bold Gryffindor, from wild moor,
Fair Ravenclaw, from glen,
		Sweet Hufflepuff, from valley broad,
		Shrewd Slytherin, from fin.
				They shared a wish, a hope, a dream,
				They hatched a daring plan
				To educate young sorcerers
				Thus Hogwarts School began.
				Now each of these four founders
				Formed their own house, for each
				Did value different virtues
				In the ones they had to teach.
				By Gryffindor, the bravest were
				Prized far beyond the rest;
				For Ravenclaw, the cleverest
				Would always be the best;
				For Hufflepuff,  hard workers were
				Most worthy of admission;
				And power-hungry Slytherin
				Loved those of great ambition.
				While still alive they did divide
				Their favorites from the throng,
				Yet how to pick the worthy ones
				When they were dead and gone?
				'Twas Gryffindor who found the way,
				He whipped me off his head
				The founders put some brains in me
				So I could choose instead!
				Now slip me snug about your ears,
				I've never yet been wrong,
				I'll have a look inside your mind
		And tell where you belong!
 
The Great Hall rang with applause as the Sorting Hat finished.

s not the song it sang when it Sorted us," said Harry, clapping along with everyone else.
"Sings a different one every year," said Ron.  "It
t it, being a hat?  I suppose it spends all year making up the next one."
Professor McGonagall was now unrolling a large scroll of parchment.
"When I call out your name, you will put on the hat and sit on the stool," she told the first years.  "When the hat announces your House, you will go and sit at the appropriate table.
"Ackerley, Stewart!"
A boy walked forward, visibly trembling from head to foot, picked up the Sorting Hat, put it on, and sat down on the stool.
"RAVENCLAW!" shouted the hat.
Stewart Ackerley took off the hat and hurried into a seat at the Ravenclaw table, where everyone was applauding him.  Harry caught a glimpse of Cho, the Ravenclaw Seeker, cheering Stewart Ackerley as he sat down.  For a fleeting second, Harry had a strange desire to join the Ravenclaw table too.
"Baddock, Malcolm!"
"SLYTHERIN!"
The table on the other side of the hall erupted with cheers; Harry could see Malfoy clapping as Baddock joined the Slytherins.  Harry wondered whether Baddock knew that Slytherin House had turned out more Dark witches and wizards than any other.  Fred and George hissed Malcolm Baddock as he sat down.
"Branstone, Eleanor!"
"HUFFLEPUFF!"
 "Cauldwell, Owen!"
"HUFFLEPUFF!"
"Creevey, Dennis!"
Tiny Dennis Creevey staggered forward, tripping over Hagrid
 table.  About twice as tall as a normal man, and at least three times as broad, Hagrid, with his long, wild, tangled black hair and beard, looked slightly alarming - a misleading impression, for Harry, Ron, and Hermione knew Hagrid to possess a very kind nature.  He winked at them as he sat down at the end of the staff table and watched Dennis Creevey putting on the Sorting Hat.  The rip at the brim opened wide-- - 
"GRYFFINDOR!" the hat shouted.
Hagrid clapped along with the Gryffindors as Dennis Creevey, beaming widely, took off the hat, placed it back on the stool, and hurried over to join his brother.
"Colin, I fell in!"  he said shrilly, throwing himself into an empty seat.  "It was brilliant! And something in the water grabbed me and pushed me back in the boat!"
"Cool!" said Colin, just as excitedly.  "It was probably the giant squid, Dennis!"
"Wow!" said Dennis, as though nobody in their wildest dreams could hope for more than being thrown into a storm-tossed, fathoms-deep lake, and pushed out of it again by a giant sea monster.
"Dennis!  Dennis!  See that boy down there?  The one with the black hair and glasses? See him?  Know who he is, Dennis?"
Harry looked away, staring very hard at the Sorting Hat, now Sorting Emma Dobbs.
The Sorting continued; boys and girls with varying degrees of fright on their faces moving one by one to the three-legged stool, the line dwindling slowly as Professor McGonagall passed the L
Oh hurry up,
Now, Ron, the Sorting's much more important than food,
Madley, Laura!
Course it is, if you're dead,
I do hope this year's batch of Gryffindors are up to scratch,
McDonald, Natalie!
We don't want to break our winning streak, do we?
Pritchard, Graham!
SLYTHERIN!
Quirke, Orla!
RAVENCLAW!
Whitby, Kevin!
HUFFLEPUFF!
About time,
I have only two words to say to you,
Tuck in.
Hear, hear!
Aaah, 'at's be'er,
You're lucky there's a feast at all tonight, you know,
There was trouble in the kitchens earlier.
Why?  Wha' 'appened?
Peeves, of course,
The usual argument, you know. He wanted to attend the feast - well, it's quite out of the question, you know what he's like, utterly uncivilized, can't see a plate of food without throwing it.  We held a ghost's council - the Fat Friar was all for giving him the chance - but most wisely, in my opinion, the Bloody Baron put his foot down.
Yeah, we thought Peeves seemed hacked off about something,
So what did he do in the kitchens?
Oh the usual,
Wreaked havoc and mayhem. Pots and pans everywhere.  Place swimming in soup.  Terrified the house-elves out of their wits--
There are house-elves here?
Here at Hogwarts?
Certainly,
The largest number in any dwelling in Britain, I believe.  Over a hundred.
I've never seen one!
Well, they hardly ever leave the kitchen by day, do they?
They come out at night to do a bit of cleaning.. . see to the fires and so on.. . . I mean, you're not supposed to see them, are you?  That's the mark of a good house-elf, isn't it, that you don't know it's there?
But they get paid?
They get holidays, don't they?  And - and sick leave, and pensions, and everything?
Sick leave and pensions?
House-elves don't want sick leave and pensions!
Oh c'mon, 'Er-my-knee,
Oops -- sorry, 'Arry --
You won't get them sick leave by starving yourself!
Slave labor,
That's what made this dinner.  Slave labor.
Treacle tart, Hermione!
Spotted dick, look!  Chocolate gateau!
So!
Now that we are all fed and watered,
Hmph!
I must once more ask for your attention, while I give out a few notices.

s office, if anybody would like to check it."
The corners of Dumbledore
As ever, I would like to remind you all that the forest on the grounds is out-of-bounds to students, as is the village of Hogsmeade to all below third year.



  Harry gasped.  He looked around at Fred and George, his fellow members of the Quidditch team. They were mouthing soundlessly at Dumbledore, apparently too appalled to speak.  Dumbhedore went on, 
 time and energy - but I am sure you will all enjoy it immensely. I have great pleasure in announcing that this year at Hogwarts -"
But at that moment, there was a deafening rumble of thunder and the doors of the Great Hall banged open.
A man stood in the doorway, leaning upon a long staff, shrouded in a black traveling cloak.  Every head in the Great Hall swiveled toward the stranger, suddenly brightly illuminated by a fork of lightning that flashed across the ceiling.  He lowered his hood, shook out a long mane of grizzled, dark gray hair, then began to walk up toward the teachers
s face into sharp relief, and it was a face unlike any Harry had ever seen. It looked as though it had been carved out of weathered wood by someone who had only the vaguest idea of what human faces are supposed to look like, and was none too skilled with a chisel.  Every inch of skin seemed to be scarred.  The mouth looked like a diagonal gash, and a large chunk of the nose was missing. But it was the man
s head, so that all they could see was whiteness.
The stranger reached Dumbledore.  He stretched out a hand that was as badly scarred as his face, and Dumbhedore shook it, muttering words Harry couldn
May I introduce our new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher?
Professor Moody.
s bizarre appearance to do more than stare at him.
"Moody?"  Harry muttered to Ron.  "Mad-Eye Moody?  The one your dad went to help this morning?"
 "Must be," said Ron in a low, awed voice.
"What happened to him?"  Hermione whispered.  "What happened to his face?"
"Dunno," Ron whispered back, watching Moody with fascination.
Moody seemed totally indifferent to his less-than-warm welcome.  Ignoring the jug of pumpkin juice in front of him, he reached again into his traveling cloak, pulled out a hip flask, and took a long draught from it.  As he lifted his arm to drink, his cloak was pulled a few inches from the ground, and Harry saw, below the table, several inches of carved wooden leg, ending in a clawed foot.
Dumbledore cleared his throat.
"As I was saying," he said, smiling at the sea of students before him, all of whom were still gazing transfixed at Mad-Eye Moody, "we are to have the honor of hosting a very exciting event over the coming months, an event that has not been held for over a century.  It is my very great pleasure to inform you that the Triwizard Tournament will be taking place at Hogwarts this year."
"You
 said Fred Weasley loudly.
The tension that had filled the Hall ever since Moody's arrival suddenly broke.  Nearly everyone laughed, and Dumbledore chuckled appreciatively.

 he said, 
Er - but maybe this is not the time.. . no. . .
where was I?  Ah yes, the Triwizard Tournament. . . well, some of you will not know what this tournament involves, so I hope those who do know will forgive me for giving a short explanation, and allow their attention to wander freely.



  Hermione whispered, looking alarmed.  But her anxiety did not seem to be shared by the majority of students in the Hall; many of them were whispering excitedly to one another, and Harry himself was far more interested in hearing about the tournament than in worrying about deaths that had happened hundreds of years ago.

 Dumbledore continued, 
The heads of Beauxbatons and Durmstrang will be arriving with their short-listed contenders in October, and the selection of the three champions will take place at Halloween. An impartial judge will decide which students are most worthy to compete for the Triwizard Cup, the glory of their school, and a thousand Galleons personal prize money.
I'm going for it!
Eager though I know all of you will be to bring the Triwizard Cup to Hogwarts,
the heads of the participating schools, along with the Ministry of Magic, have agreed to impose an age restriction on contenders this year.  Only students who are of age - that is to say, seventeen years or older - will be allowed to put forward their names for consideration.  This
is a measure we feel is necessary, given that the tournament tasks will still be difficult and dangerous, whatever precautions we take, and it is highly unlikely that students below sixth and seventh year will be able to cope with them.  I will personally be ensuring that no underage student hoodwinks our impartial judge into making them Hog-warts champion.
s and George
I therefore beg you not to waste your time submitting yourself if you are under seventeen.


Dumbledore sat down again and turned to talk to Mad-Eye Moody.  There was a great scraping and banging as all the students got to their feet and swarmed toward the double doors into the entrance hall.

t do that!"  said George Weasley, who had not joined the crowd moving toward the door, but was standing up and glaring at Dumbledore.  "We
t we have a shot?" 
"They
 said Fred stubbornly, also scowling at the top table. 
ll get to do all sorts of stuff you


 said Ron, a faraway look on his face.  


 said Hermione, 
ll be the only ones left here if you don

Harry, Ron, Hermione, Fred, and George set off for the entrance hall, Fred and George debating the ways in which Dumbledore might stop those who were under seventeen from entering the tournament.

s this impartial judge who
  said Harry.

 said Fred, 
s them we


re not of age, though," said Ron.
 "Yeah, but he
  said Fred shrewdly.  
ll choose the best from each school and never mind how old they are.  Dumbledore


  said Hermione in a worried voice as they walked through a door concealed behind a tapestry and started up another, narrower staircase.

 said Fred airily, 
t it?  Anyway, where
round Dumbledore?  Fancy entering?"
"What d
  Ron asked Harry.  
t it?  But I s
ve learned enough.. .
"I definitely haven
 came Nevihle's gloomy voice from behind Fred and George.

d want me to try, though.  She
ll just have to -- oops. . ."
Neville
s memory was notoriously poor.  Harry and Ron seized him under the armpits and pulled him out, while a suit of armor at the top of the stairs creaked and clanked, laughing wheezily.
"Shut it, you," said Ron, banging down its visor as they passed.  They made their way up to the entrance to Gryffindor Tower, which was concealed behind a large portrait of a fat lady in a pink silk dress.
"Password?" she said as they approached.
"Balderdash," said George, "a prefect downstairs told me."
 The portrait swung forward to reveal a hole in the wall through which they all climbed. A crackling fire warmed the circular common room, which was full of squashy armchairs and tables. Hermione cast the merrily dancing flames a dark look, and Harry distinctly heard her mutter  "Slave labor" before bidding them good night and disappearing through the doorway to the girls
s trunk at the foot.  Dean and Seamus were already getting into bed; Seamus had pinned his Ireland rosette to his headboard, and Dean had tacked up a poster of Viktor Krum over his bedside table.  His old poster of the West Ham football team was pinned right next to it.
"Mental," Ron sighed, shaking his head at the completely stationary soccer players.
Harry, Ron, and Neville got into their pajamas and into bed.  Someone - a house-elf, no doubt - had placed warming pans between the sheets. It was extremely comfortable, lying there in bed and listening to the storm raging outside.
"I might go in for it, you know," Ron said sleepily through the darkness, "if Fred and George find out how to. . . the tournament. . . you never know, do you?"
 "S

Harry rolled over in bed, a series of dazzling new pictures forming in his mind's eye. . . . He had hoodwinked the impartial judge into believing he was seventeen. . . he had become Hogwarts champion. . . he was standing on the grounds, his arms raised in triumph in front of the whole school, all of whom were applauding and screaming. . . he had just won the Triwizard Tournament.  Cho's face stood out particularly clearly in the blurred crowd, her face glowing with admiration....
Harry grinned into his pillow, exceptionally glad that Ron couldn't see what he could. 

CHAPTER THIRTEEN - MAD-EYE MOODY

		The storm had blown itself out by the following morning, though the ceiling in the Great Hall was still gloomy; heavy clouds of pewter gray swirled overhead as Harry, Ron, and Hermione examined their new course schedules at breakfast.  A few seats along, Fred, George, and Lee Jordan were discussing magical methods of aging themselves and bluffing their way into the Triwizard Tournament.
		
s not bad.. . outside all morning," said Ron, who was running his finger down the Monday column of his schedule.  "Herbology with the Hufflepuffs and Care of Magical Creatures... damn it, we

		
 Harry groaned, looking down.  Divination was his least favorite subject, apart from Potions.  Professor Trelawney kept predicting Harry's death, which he found extremely annoying.
		
t you?" said Hermione briskly, buttering herself some toast. "Then you

		
re eating again, I notice," said Ron, watching Hermione adding liberal amounts of jam to her toast too.
		"I
 said Hermione haughtily.
		
 said Ron, grinning.
		There was a sudden rustling noise above them, and a hundred owls came soaring through the open windows carrying the morning mail.  Instinctively, Harry looked up, but there was no sign of white among the mass of brown and gray.  The owls circled the tables, looking for the people to whom their letters and packages were addressed.  A large tawny owl soared down to Neville Longbottom and deposited a parcel into his lap - Neville almost always forgot to pack something.  On the other side of the Hall Draco Malfoy's eagle owl had landed on his shoulder, carrying what looked like his usual supply of sweets and cakes from home.  Trying to ignore the sinking feeling of disappointment in his stomach, Harry returned to his porridge.  Was it possible that something had happened to Hedwig, and that Sirius hadn't even got his letter?
		His preoccupation lasted all the way across the sodden vegetable patch until they arrived in greenhouse three, but here he was distracted by Professor Sprout showing the class the ugliest plants Harry had ever seen.  Indeed, they looked less like plants than thick, black, giant slugs, protruding vertically out of the soil.  Each was squirming slightly and had a number of large, shiny swellings upon it, which appeared to be full of liquid.
		
 Professor Sprout told them briskly. 

		
 said Seamus Finnigan, sounding revolted.
		
 said Professor Sprout, 
s extremely valuable, so don

		Squeezing the bubotubers was disgusting, but oddly satisfying.  As each swelling was popped, a large amount of thick yellowish-green liquid burst forth, which smelled strongly of petrol.  They caught it in the bottles as Professor Sprout had indicated, and by the end of the lesson had collected several pints.
		
ll keep Madam Pomfrey happy," said Professor Sprout, stoppering the last bottle with a cork.  "An excellent remedy for the more stubborn forms of acne, bubotuber pus.  Should stop students resorting to desperate measures to rid themselves of pimples."
		"Like poor Eloise Midgen," said Hannah Abbott, a Hufflepuff, in a hushed voice.  "She tried to curse hers off."
		"Silly girl," said Professor Sprout, shaking her head.  "But Madam Pomfrey fixed her nose back on in the end."
		A booming bell echoed from the castle across the wet grounds, signaling the end of the lesson, and the class separated; the Hufflepuffs climbing the stone steps for Transfiguration, and the Gryffindors heading in the other direction, down the sloping lawn toward Hagrid
Mornin'!
Be'er wait fer the Slytherins, they won' want ter miss this - Blast-Ended Skrewts!
Come again?
Eurgh!
Eurgh
s opinion.  They looked like deformed, shell-less lobsters, horribly pale and slimy-looking, with legs sticking out in very odd places and no visible heads. There were about a hundred of them in each crate, each about six inches long, crawling over one another, bumping blindly into the sides of the boxes.  They were giving off a very powerful smell of rotting fish.  Every now and then, sparks would fly out of the end of a skrewt, and with a small phut, it would be propelled forward several inches.
"On
 hatched," said Hagrid proudly, "so yeh
em yerselves! Thought we


 said a cold voice.
The Slytherins had arrived.  The speaker was Draco Malfoy.  Crabbe and Goyle were chuckling appreciatively at his words.	
Hagrid looked stumped at the question.

 asked Malfoy. 

Hagrid opened his mouth, apparently thinking hard; there was a few seconds' pause, then he said roughly, 
s next lesson, Malfoy.  Yer jus
 
ll wan
em on a few diff
ve never had 
ll go fer - I got ant eggs an
 a bit o
em out with a bit of each."
"First pus and now this," muttered Seamus.
Nothing but deep affection for Hagrid could have made Harry, Ron, and Hermione pick up squelchy handfuls of frog liver and lower them into the crates to tempt the Blast-Ended Skrewts.  Harry couldn
t seem to have mouths.
"Ouch!" yelled Dean Thomas after about ten minutes. "It got me."
Hagrid hurried over to him, looking anxious.
"Its end exploded!" said Dean angrily, showing Hagrid a burn on his hand.
"Ah, yeah, that can happen when they blast off," said Hagrid, nodding.
"Eurgh!" said Lavender Brown again. "Eurgh, Hagrid, what


em have got stings," said Hagrid enthusiastically (Lavender quickly withdrew her hand from the box).  "I reckon they
ve got sorta sucker things on their bellies. . . . I think they might be ter suck blood."
"Well, I can certainly see why we
 said Malfoy sarcastically. 
t want pets that can burn, sting, and bite all at once?"
"Just because they
t mean they
 Hermione snapped.  
s amazingly magical, but you wouldn

Harry and Ron grinned at Hagrid, who gave them a furtive smile from behind his bushy beard. Hagrid would have liked nothing better than a pet dragon, as Harry, Ron, and Hermione knew only too well - he had owned one for a brief period during their first year, a vicious Norwegian Ridgeback by the name of Norbert.  Hagrid simply loved monstrous creatures, the more lethal, the better.

 said Ron as they made their way back up to the castle for lunch an hour later.

 said Hermione in an exasperated voice, 
s found out what they eat, I expect they


t matter if they turn out to cure seasickness or something, will it?" said Ron, grinning slyly at her.
"You know perfectly well I only said that to shut Malfoy up," said Hermione. "As a matter of fact I think he

They sat down at the Gryffindor table and helped themselves to lamb chops and potatoes.  Hermione began to eat so fast that Harry and Ron stared at her.

 said Ron. 
re going to make yourself puke instead?"
"No," said Hermione, with as much dignity as she could muster with her mouth bulging with sprouts.  "I just want to get to the library."
"What?" said Ron in disbelief. "Hermione - it
t even got homework yet!"
Hermione shrugged and continued to shovel down her food as though she had not eaten for days.  Then she leapt to her feet, said, "See you at dinner!"  and departed at high speed.
When the bell rang to signal the start of afternoon lessons, Harry and Ron set off for North Tower where, at the top of a tightly spiraling staircase, a silver stepladder led to a circular trapdoor in the ceiling, and the room where Professor Trelawney lived.
The familiar sweet perfume spreading from the fire met their nostrils as they emerged at the top of the stepladder.  As ever, the curtains were all closed; the circular room was bathed in a dim reddish light cast by the many lamps, which were all draped with scarves and shawls. Harry and Ron walked through the mass of occupied chintz chairs and poufs that cluttered the room, and sat down at the same small circular table.
"Good day," said the misty voice of Professor Trelawney right behind Harry, making him jump.
A very thin woman with enormous glasses that made her eyes appear far too large for her face, Professor Trelawney was peering down at Harry with the tragic expression she always wore whenever she saw him.  The usual large amount of beads, chains, and bangles glittered upon her person in the firelight.
"You are preoccupied, my dear," she said mournfully to Harry.  "My inner eye sees past your brave face to the troubled soul within.  And I regret to say that your worries are not baseless.  I see difficult times ahead for you, alas. . . most difficult.. . I fear the thing you dread will indeed come to pass. . . and perhaps sooner than you think..."
Her voice dropped almost to a whisper.  Ron rolled his eyes at Harry, who looked stonily back.  Professor Trelawney swept past them and seated herself in a large winged armchair before the fire, facing the class.  Lavender Brown and Parvati Patil, who deeply admired Professor Trelawney, were sitting on poufs very close to her.
"My dears, it is time for us to consider the stars," she said.  "The movements of the planets and the mysterious portents they reveal only to those who understand the steps of the celestial dance. Human destiny may be deciphered by the planetary rays, which intermingle. . ."
But Harry
s rambling talks on fortune-telling never held him exactly spellbound - though he couldn
I fear the thing you dread will indeed come to pass...'
t dreading anything at the moment at all. . . well, unless you counted his fears that Sirius had been caught. . . but what did Professor Trelawney know?  He had long since come to the conclusion that her brand of fortunetelling was really no more than lucky guesswork and a spooky manner.
Except, of course, for that time at the end of last term, when she had made the prediction about Voldemort rising again. . . and Dumbledore himself had said that he thought that trance had been genuine, when Harry had described it to him.
"Harry!" Ron muttered.
"What?"
Harry looked around; the whole class was staring at him.  He sat up straight; he had been almost dozing off, lost in the heat and his thoughts.
"I was saying, my dear, that you were clearly born under the baleful influence of Saturn," said Professor Trelawney, a faint note of resentment in her voice at the fact that he had obviously not been hanging on her words.
"Born under - what, sorry?" said Harry.
"Saturn, dear, the planet Saturn!"  said Professor Trelawney, sounding definitely irritated that he wasn
I was saying that Saturn was surely in a position of power in the heavens at the moment of your birth. . . . Your dark hair. . . your mean stature...tragic losses so young in life. . . I think I am right in saying, my dear, that you were born in midwinter?
No,
I was born in July.
I've got two Neptunes here,
that can't be right, can it?
Aaaaah,
s mystical whisper, "when two Neptunes appear in the sky, it is a sure sign that a midget in glasses is being born, Harry. . . ."
Seamus and Dean, who were working nearby, sniggered loudly, though not loudly enough to mask the excited squeals from Lavender Brown - "Oh Professor, look! I think I
s that, Professor?"
"It is Uranus, my dear," said Professor Trelawney, peering down at the chart.
"Can I have a look at Uranus too, Lavender?" said Ron.
Most unfortunately, Professor Trelawney heard him, and it was this, perhaps, that made her give them so much homework at the end of the class.
"A detailed analysis of the way the planetary movements in the coming month will affect you, with reference to your personal chart," she snapped, sounding much more like Professor McGonagall than her usual airy-fairy self.  "I want it ready to hand in next Monday, and no excuses!"
"Miserable old bat," said Ron bitterly as they joined the crowds descending the staircases back to the Great Hall and dinner.  "That


 said Hermione brightly, catching up with them. 
t give us any at all!"
"Well, bully for Professor Vector," said Ron moodily.
They reached the entrance hall, which was packed with people queuing for dinner. They had just joined the end of the line, when a loud voice rang out behind them.
"Weasley!  Hey, Weasley!"
Harry, Ron, and Hermione turned.  Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle were standing there, each looking thoroughly pleased about something.
"What?" said Ron shortly.
"Your dad
  said Malfoy, brandishing a copy of the Daily Prophet and speaking very loudly, so that everyone in the packed entrance hall could hear. 
s troubles are not yet at an end, writes Rita Skeeter, Special Correspondent. Recently under fire for its poor
crowd control at the Quidditch World Cup, and still unable to account for the disappearance of one of its witches, the Ministry was plunged into fresh embarrassment yesterday by the antics of Arnold Weasley, of the Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office."

	Malfoy looked up.
	"Imagine them not even getting his name right, Weasley.  It
s a complete nonentity, isn
  he crowed.
	Everyone in the entrance hall was listening now.  Malfoy straightened the paper with a flourish and read on:

Arnold Weasley, who was charged with possession of a flying car two years ago, was yesterday involved in a tussle with several Muggle law-keepers (
) over a number of highly aggressive dustbins. Mr. Weasley appears to have rushed to the aid of 
 Moody, the aged ex-Auror who retired from the Ministry when no longer able to tell the difference between a handshake and attempted murder. Unsurprisingly, Mr. Weasley found, upon arrival at Mr. Moody's heavily guarded house, that Mr. Moody had once again raised a false alarm. Mr. Weasley was forced to modify several memories before he could escape from the policemen, but refused to answer Daily Prophet questions about why he had involved the Ministry in such an undignified and potentially embarrassing scene.

 
s a picture, Weasley!"  said Malfoy, flipping the paper over and holding it up.  "A picture of your parents outside their house - if you can call it a house!  Your mother could do with losing a bit of weight, couldn

Ron was shaking with fury.  Everyone was staring at him.

 said Harry.  
mon, Ron. . ."
 "Oh yeah, you were staying with them this summer, weren
  sneered Malfoy.  


  said Harry - both he and Hermione had grabbed the back of Ron's robes to stop him from launching himself at Malfoy - 
s got, like she

Malfoy's pale face went slightly pink.

t you dare insult my mother, Potter."
"Keep your fat mouth shut, then," said Harry, turning away.
BANG!
Several people screamed - Harry felt something white-hot graze the side of his face - he plunged his hand into his robes for his wand, but before he
OH NO YOU DON'T, LADDIE!
Did he get you?
No,
missed.
LEAVE IT!
Leave - what?
Not you - him!
s rolling eye was magical and could see out of the back of his head.
Moody started to limp toward Crabbe, Goyle, and the ferret, which gave a terrified squeak and took off, streaking toward the dungeons.
"I don
 roared Moody, pointing his wand at the ferret again - it flew ten feet into the air, fell with a smack to the floor, and then bounced upward once more.

t like people who attack when their opponent
s turned," growled Moody as the ferret bounced higher and higher, squealing in pain.  "Stinking, cowardly, scummy thing to do..."
The ferret flew through the air, its legs and tail flailing helplessly.  
"Never - do - that - again -" said Moody, speaking each word as the ferret hit the stone floor and bounced upward again. 
"Professor Moody!"  said a shocked voice.
Professor McGonagall was coming down the marble staircase with her arms full of books.
"Hello, Professor McGonagall," said Moody calmly, bouncing the ferret still higher.
 "What - what are you doing?"  said Professor McGonagall, her eyes following the bouncing ferret
Teaching,
Teach - Moody, is that a student?
Yep,
No!
Moody, we never use Transfiguration as a punishment!
Surely Professor Dumbledore told you that?
He might've mentioned it, yeah,
but I thought a good sharp shock -
We give detentions, Moody!  Or speak to the offender's Head of House!
I'll do that, then,
my father
Oh yeah?
Well, I know your father of old, boy... . You tell him Moody's keeping a close eye on his son. . . you tell him that from me. . . . Now, your Head of House'll be Snape, will it?
Yes,
Another old friend,
I've been looking forward to a chat with old Snape. . . . Come on, you. . .
s upper arm and marched him off toward the dungeons.
Professor McGonagall stared anxiously after them for a few moments, then waved her wand at her fallen books, causing them to soar up into the air and back into her arms.
"Don
 Ron said quietly to Harry and Hermione as they sat down at the Gryffindor table a few minutes later, surrounded by excited talk on all sides about what had just happened.

 said Hermione in surprise.

 said Ron, his eyes closed and an uplifted expression on his face. 

Harry and Hermione both laughed, and Hermione began doling beef casserole onto each of their plates.

 she said. 


 said Ron furiously, his eyes snapping open again, 
re ruining the best moment of my life!"
Hermione made an impatient noise and began to eat at top speed again.
"Don
re going back to the library this evening?" said Harry, watching her.
"Got to," said Hermione thickly. "Loads to do."
"But you told us Professor Vector -"
"It
 she said. Within five minutes, she had cleared her plate and departed.  No sooner had she gone than her seat was taken by Fred Weasley.

 he said. 


 said George, sitting down opposite Fred.  
 said the twins' best friend, Lee Jordan, sliding into the seat beside George.  
 he told Harry and Ron.

 said Harry eagerly.
Fred, George, and Lee exchanged looks full of meaning.

 said Fred.

 said Lee.

 said Ron, leaning forward.

s like to be out there doing it," said George impressively.
"Doing what?" said Harry.
"Fighting the Dark Arts," said Fred.
"He
 said George.

 said Lee.
Ron dived into his bag for his schedule.

t got him till Thursday!"  he said in a disappointed voice. 

CHAPTER FOURTEEN - THE UNFORGIVABLE CURSES

		The next two days passed without great incident, unless you counted Neville melting his sixth cauldron in Potions.  Professor Snape, who seemed to have attained new levels of vindictiveness over the summer, gave Nevihle detention, and Neville returned from it in a state of nervous collapse, having been made to disembowel a barrel full of horned toads.
		"You know why Snape
t you?" said Ron to Harry as they watched Hermione teaching Neville a Scouring Charm to remove the frog guts from under his fingernails. 
		"Yeah," said Harry.  "Moody."
		It was common knowledge that Snape really wanted the Dark Arts job, and he had now failed to get it for the fourth year running.  Snape had disliked all of their previous Dark Arts teachers, and shown it - but he seemed strangely wary of displaying overt animosity to Mad-Eye Moody.  Indeed, whenever Harry saw the two of them together - at mealtimes, or when they passed in the corridors - he had the distinct impression that Snape was avoiding Moody
I reckon Snape's a bit scared of him, you know,
Imagine if Moody turned Snape into a horned toad,
and bounced him all around his dungeon...
s first lesson so much that they arrived early on Thursday lunchtime and queued up outside his classroom before the bell had even rung.  The only person missing was Hermione, who turned up just in time for the lesson.
"Been in the -"
"Library."  Harry finished her sentence for her.  "C
t get decent seats."
They hurried into three chairs right in front of the teacher
s distinctive clunking footsteps coming down the corridor, and he entered the room, looking as strange and frightening as ever.  They could just see his clawed, wooden foot protruding from underneath his robes.
"You can put those away," he growled, stumping over to his desk and sitting down, "those books.  You won

They returned the books to their bags, Ron looking excited.
Moody took out a register, shook his long mane of grizzled gray hair out of his twisted and scarred face, and began to call out names, his normal eye moving steadily down the list while his magical eye swiveled around, fixing upon each student as he or she answered.
 
 he said, when the last person had declared themselves present, 
ve had a letter from Professor Lupin about this class.  Seems you
ve covered boggarts, Red Caps, hinkypunks, grindylows, Kappas, and werewolves, is that right?"
There was a general murmur of assent.
"But you
 said Moody.  
m here to bring you up to scratch on what wizards can do to each other.  I


t you staying?"  Ron blurted out.
Moody
You'll be Arthur Weasley's son, eh?
Your father got me out of a very tight corner a few days ago. .. . Yeah, I'm staying just the one year.  Special favor to Dumbledore. . . . One year, and then back to my quiet retirement.
So - straight into it. Curses.  They come in many strengths and forms.  Now, according to the Ministry of Magic, I'm supposed to teach you countercurses and leave it at that.  I'm not supposed to show you what illegal Dark curses look like until you're in the sixth year.  You're not supposed to be old enough to deal with it till then.  But Professor Dumbledore's got a higher opinion of your nerves, he reckons you can cope, and I say, the sooner you know what you're up against, the better.  How are you supposed to defend yourself against something you've never seen?  A wizard who's about to put an illegal curse on you isn't going to tell you what he's about to do.  He's not going to do it nice and polite to your face.  You need to be prepared.  You need to be alert and watchful.  You need to put that away, Miss Brown, when I'm talking.
s magical eye could see through solid wood, as well as out of the back of his head.
"So. . . do any of you know which curses are most heavily punished by wizarding law?"
Several hands rose tentatively into the air, including Ron
s.  Moody pointed at Ron, though his magical eye was still fixed on Lavender.
"Er," said Ron tentatively, "my dad told me about one.. . . Is it called the Imperius Curse, or something?"
"Ah, yes," said Moody appreciatively. "Your father would know that one.  Gave the Ministry a lot of trouble at one time, the Imperius Curse."
Moody got heavily to his mismatched feet, opened his desk drawer, and took out a glass jar. Three large black spiders were scuttling around inside it. Harry felt Ron recoil slightly next to him - Ron hated spiders.
Moody reached into the jar, caught one of the spiders, and held it in the palm of his hand so that they could all see it. He then pointed his wand at it and muttered, "Imperio!"
The spider leapt from Moody
Think it's funny, do you?
You'd like it, would you, if I did it to you?
Total control,
I could make it jump out of the window, drown itself, throw itself down one of your throats. . .
Years back, there were a lot of witches and wizards being controlled by the Imperius Curse,
Some job for the Ministry, trying to sort out who was being forced to act, and who was acting of their own free will.

ll be teaching you how, but it takes real strength of character, and not everyone
  he barked, and everyone jumped.
Moody picked up the somersaulting spider and threw it back into the jar.


Hermione's hand flew into the air again and so, to Harry's slight surprise, did Neville's. The only class in which Neville usually volunteered information was Herbology which was easily his best subject.  Neville looked surprised at his own daring.
 
 said Moody, his magical eye rolling right over to fix on Neville.

s one - the Cruciatus Curse," said Neville in a small but distinct voice.
Moody was looking very intently at Neville, this time with both eyes.
"Your name
  he said, his magical eye swooping down to check the register again.
Neville nodded nervously, but Moody made no further inquiries.  Turning back to the class at large, he reached into the jar for the next spider and placed it upon the desktop, where it remained motionless, apparently too scared to move.

 said Moody.  
 he said, pointing his wand at the spider.  

The spider swelled. It was now larger than a tarantula.  Abandoning all pretense, Ron pushed his chair backward, as far away from Moody's desk as possible.
Moody raised his wand again, pointed it at the spider, and muttered, 

At once, the spider's legs bent in upon its body; it rolled over and began to twitch horribly, rocking from side to side.  No sound came from it, but Harry was sure that if it could have given voice, it would have been screaming.  Moody did not remove his wand, and the spider started to shudder and jerk more violently - 
 Hermione said shrilly.
s hands were clenched upon the desk in front of him, his knuckles white, his eyes wide and horrified.
Moody raised his wand. The spider
Reducio,
Pain,
You don't need thumbscrews or knives to torture someone if you can perform the Cruciatus Curse. . . . That one was very popular once too.


Harry looked around.  From the looks on everyone's faces, he guessed they were all wondering what was going to happen to the last spider.  Hermione's hand shook slightly as, for the third time, she raised it into the air.

 said Moody, looking at her.

  Hermione whispered.
Several people looked uneasily around at her, including Ron.

 said Moody, another slight smile twisting his lopsided mouth. 

He put his hand into the glass jar, and almost as though it knew what was coming, the third spider scuttled frantically around the bottom of the jar, trying to evade Moody's fingers, but he trapped it, and placed it upon the desktop.  It started to scuttle frantically across the wooden surface.
Moody raised his wand, and Harry felt a sudden thrill of foreboding.

  Moody roared.
There was a flash of blinding green light and a rushing sound, as though a vast, invisible something was soaring through the air - instantaneously the spider rolled over onto its back, unmarked, but unmistakably dead.  Several of the students stifled cries; Ron had thrown himself backward and almost toppled off his seat as the spider skidded toward him.
Moody swept the dead spider off the desk onto the floor.

 he said calmly.  
s no countercurse.  There
s sitting right in front of me."
Harry felt his face redden as Moody
 deaths over and over again for three years now, ever since he
d found out what had happened that night:  Wormtail had betrayed his parents
s father first.  How James Potter had tried to hold him off, while he shouted at his wife to take Harry and run. . . Voldemort had advanced on Lily Potter, told her to move aside so that he could kill Harry.. . how she had begged him to kill her instead, refused to stop shielding her son.. . and so Voldemort had murdered her too, before turning his wand on Harry.
Harry knew these details because he had heard his parents
Avada Kedavra's a curse that needs a powerful bit of magic behind it - you could all get your wands out now and point them at me and say the words, and I doubt I'd get so much as a nosebleed.  But that doesn't matter.  I'm not here to teach you how to do it.

s no countercurse, why am I showing you?  Because you
ve got to appreciate what the worst is.  You don
re facing it.  CONSTANT VIGILANCE!"  he roared, and the whole class jumped again.
"Now. . . those three curses - Avada Kedavra, Imperius, and Cruciatus - are known as the Unforgivable Curses.  The use of any one of them on a fellow human being is enough to earn a life sentence in Azkaban.  That
re up against.  That
ve got to teach you to fight.  You need preparing.  You need arming.  But most of all, you need to practice constant, never-ceasing vigilance.  Get out your quills. . . copy this down. . . ."
They spent the rest of the lesson taking notes on each of the Unforgivable Curses.  No one spoke until the bell rang - but when Moody had dismissed them and they had left the classroom, a torrent of talk burst forth.  Most people were discussing the curses in awed voices - "Did you see it twitch?" "- and when he killed it - just like that!"
They were talking about the lesson, Harry thought, as though it had been some sort of spectacular show, but he hadn
Hurry up,
Not the ruddy library again?
No,
Neville.
Neville?
Oh hello,
Interesting lesson, wasn't it?  I wonder what's for dinner, I'm - I'm starving, aren't you?
Neville, are you all right?
Oh yes, I'm fine,
Very interesting dinner - I mean lesson - what's for eating?
Neville, what - ?
It's all right, sonny,
Why don't you come up to my office?  Come on. . . we can have a cup of tea. . . .
You all right, are you, Potter?
Yes,
s blue eye quivered slightly in its socket as it surveyed Harry.  Then he said, "You
ve got to know.  No point pretending. . . well.. . come on, Longbottom, I

Neville looked pleadingly at Harry, Ron, and Hermione, but they didn't say anything, so Neville had no choice but to allow himself to be steered away, one of Moody's gnarled hands on his shoulder.

  said Ron, watching Neville and Moody turn the corner.

t know," said Hermione, looking pensive.
"Some lesson, though, eh?" said Ron to Harry as they set off for the Great Hall.  "Fred and George were right, weren
t he?  When he did Avada Kedavra, the way that spider just died, just snuffed it right -"
But Ron fell suddenly silent at the look on Harry
t speak again until they reached the Great Hall, when he said he supposed they had better make a start on Professor Trelawney
s conversation during dinner, but ate furiously fast, and then left for the library again.  Harry and Ron walked back to Gryffindor Tower, and Harry, who had been thinking of nothing else all through dinner, now raised the subject of the Unforgivable Curses himself.
"Wouldn
d seen the curses?"  Harry asked as they approached the Fat Lady.
"Yeah, probably," said Ron.  "But Dumbledore
t he, and Moody

The Fat Lady swung forward to reveal the entrance hole, and they climbed into the Gryffindor common room, which was crowded and noisy.

  said Harry.

pose," Ron groaned.
They went up to the dormitory to fetch their books and charts, to find Neville there alone, sitting on his bed, reading.  He looked a good deal calmer than at the end of Moody
You all right, Neville?
Oh yes,
I'm fine, thanks.  Just reading this book Professor Moody lent me. . .
Apparently, Professor Sprout told Professor Moody I'm really good at Herbology,
He thought I'd like this.
s brain was as fogged as though it had been filled with the fumes from Professor Trelawney
I haven't got a clue what this lot's supposed to mean,
You know,
I think it's back to the old Divination standby.
What - make it up?
Yeah,
Next Monday,
I am likely to develop a cough, owing to the unlucky conjunction of Mars and Jupiter.
You know her - just put in loads of misery, she'll lap it up.
Right,
Okay. . . on Monday, I will be in danger of- er - burns.
Yeah, you will be,
we're seeing the skrewts again on Monday. Okay, Tuesday, I'll. . . erm. .

 said Harry, who was flicking through Unfogging the Future for ideas.

 said Ron, copying it down.  
t you get stabbed in the back by someone you thought was a friend?"
"Yeah. . . cool. . ." said Harry, scribbling it down, "because... Venus is in the twelfth house."
"And on Wednesday, I think I


ll lose a bet."
"Yeah, you
ll win my fight. ..
They continued to make up predictions (which grew steadily more tragic) for another hour, while the common room around them slowly emptied as people went up to bed. Crookshanks wandered over to them, leapt lightly into an empty chair, and stared inscrutably at Harry, rather as Hermione might look if she knew they weren
t yet used, Harry saw Fred and George sitting together against the opposite wall, heads together, quills out, poring over a single piece of parchment. It was most unusual to see Fred and George hidden away in a corner and working silently; they usually liked to be in the thick of things and the noisy center of attention.  There was something secretive about the way they were working on the piece of parchment, and Harry was reminded of how they had sat together writing something back at the Burrow.  He had thought then that it was another order form for Weasleys
t look like that this time; if it had been, they would surely have let Lee Jordan in on the joke.  He wondered whether it had anything to do with entering the Triwizard Tournament.
As Harry watched, George shook his head at Fred, scratched out something with his quill, and said, in a very quiet voice that nevertheless carried across the almost deserted room, "No - that sounds like we

Then George looked over and saw Harry watching him.  Harry grinned and quickly returned to his predictions - he didn't want George to think he was eavesdropping.  Shortly after that, the twins rolled up their parchment, said good night, and went off to bed.
Fred and George had been gone ten minutes or so when the portrait hole opened and Hermione climbed into the common room carrying a sheaf of parchment in one hand and a box whose contents rattled as she walked in the other.  Crookshanks arched his back, purring.

 she said, 
ve just finished!"
"So have I!" said Ron triumphantly, throwing down his quill.
Hermione sat down, laid the things she was carrying in an empty armchair, and pulled Ron
Not going to have a very good month, are you?
Ah well, at least I'm forewarned,
You seem to be drowning twice,
Oh am I?
I'd better change one of them to getting trampled by a rampaging hippogriff.
Don't you think it's a bit obvious you've made these up?
How dare you!
We've been working like house-elves here!
It's just an expression,
What's in the box?
Funny you should ask,
Spew?
What's this about?
Not spew,
It's S-P-E-W.  Stands for the Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare.
Never heard of it,
Well, of course you haven't,
I've only just started it.
Yeah?
How many members have you got?
Well - if you two join - three,
And you think we want to walk around wearing badges saying 'spew,' do you?
S-P-E-W!
I was going to put Stop the Outrageous Abuse of Our Fellow Magical Creatures and Campaign for a Change in Their Legal Status - but it wouldn't fit. So that's the heading of our manifesto.
I've been researching it thoroughly in the library.  Elf enslavement goes back centuries. I can't believe no one's done anything about it before now.
Hermione - open your ears,
They.  Like.  It.  They like being enslaved!
Our short-term aims,
t heard a word, "are to secure house-elves fair wages and working conditions.  Our long-term aims include changing the law about non-wand use, and trying to get an elf into the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures, because they


 Harry asked.

 said Hermione happily. 
re treasurer, Ron - I
re secretary, so you might want to write down everything I

There was a pause in which Hermione beamed at the pair of them, and Harry sat, torn between exasperation at Hermione and amusement at the look on Ron's face.  The silence was broken, not by Ron, who in any case looked as though he was temporarily dumbstruck, but by a soft tap, tap on the window.  Harry looked across the now empty common room and saw, illuminated by the moonlight, a snowy owl perched on the windowsill.

  he shouted, and he launched himself out of his chair and across the room to pull open the window.
Hedwig flew inside, soared across the room, and landed on the table on top of Harry's predictions.

 said Harry, hurrying after her.

s got an answer!" said Ron excitedly, pointing at the grubby piece of parchment tied to Hedwig
What does it say?
m flying north immediately. This news about your scar is the latest in a series of strange rumors that have reached me here. If it hurts again, go straight to Dumbledore - they
s got Mad-Eye out of retirement, which means he
ll be in touch soon. My best to Ron and Hermione. Keep your eyes open, Harry.
Sirius

Harry looked up at Ron and Hermione, who stared back at him. 
"He
  Hermione whispered. 
s coming back?"
 "Dumbledore
 said Ron, looking perplexed.  
s up?"
For Harry had just hit himself in the forehead with his fist, jolting Hedwig out of his lap.
"I shouldn
ve told him!" Harry said furiously.
"What are you on about?" said Ron in surprise.
"It
s got to come back!" said Harry, now slamming his fist on the table so that Hedwig landed on the back of Ron
Coming back, because he thinks I'm in trouble!  And there's nothing wrong with me!  And I haven't got anything for you,
you'll have to go up to the Owlery if you want food.
Harry,
I'm going to bed,
See you in the morning.
t feel remotely tired.
If Sirius came back and got caught, it would be his, Harry
t he kept his mouth shut?  A few seconds
d had to blab. . . . If he
s usual snores meant that he was not the only one lying awake.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN - BEAUXBATONS AND DURMSTRANG

		Early next morning, Harry woke with a plan fully formed in his mind, as though his sleeping brain had been working on it all night.  He got up, dressed in the pale dawn light, left the dormitory without waking Ron, and went back down to the deserted common room.  Here he took a piece of parchment from the table upon which his Divination homework still lay and wrote the following letter:

Dear Sirius,
I reckon I just imagined my scar hurting, I was half asleep when I wrote to you last time.  There
s fine here.  Don
Just find him, all right?
Before the dementors do.
s reply would alleviate his worries rather than increasing them.
"That was a lie, Harry," said Hermione sharply over breakfast, when he told her and Ron what he had done.  "You didn


 said Harry. 
s not going back to Azkaban because of me."
"Drop it," said Ron sharply to Hermione as she opened her mouth to argue some more, and for once, Hermione heeded him, and fell silent.
Harry did his best not to worry about Sirius over the next couple of weeks.  True, he could not stop himself from looking anxiously around every morning when the post owls arrived, nor, late at night before he went to sleep, prevent himself from seeing horrible visions of Sirius, cornered by dementors down some dark London street, but betweentimes he tried to keep his mind off his godfather.  He wished he still had Quidditch to distract him; nothing worked so well on a troubled mind as a good, hard training session.  On the other hand, their lessons were becoming more difficult and demanding than ever before, particularly Moody
But - but you said it's illegal, Professor,
You said - to use it against another human was -
Dumbledore wants you taught what it feels like,
If you'd rather learn the hard way - when someone's putting it on you so they can control you completely - fine by me. You're excused.  Off you go.
Potter,
you next.
1mperio!"
It was the most wonderful feeling.  Harry felt a floating sensation as every thought and worry in his head was wiped gently away, leaving nothing but a vague, untraceable happiness. He stood there feeling immensely relaxed, only dimly aware of everyone watching him.
And then he heard Mad-Eye Moody
t think I will, thanks, said the other voice, a little more firmly. . . no, I don
d smashed headlong into the desk knocking it over, and, by the feeling in his legs, fractured both his kneecaps.
"Now, that
  growled Moody's voice, and suddenly, Harry felt the empty, echoing feeling in his head disappear.  He remembered exactly what was happening, and the pain in his knees seemed to double.

ll try that again, Potter, and the rest of you, pay attention - watch his eyes, that
ll have trouble controlling you!"

"The way he talks," Harry muttered as he hobbled out of the Defense Against the Dark Arts class an hour later (Moody had insisted on putting Harry through his paces four times in a row, until Harry could throw off the curse entirely), "you


 said Ron, who was skipping on every alternate step.  He had had much more difficulty with the curse than Harry, though Moody assured him the effects would wear off by lunchtime.  
 Ron glanced nervously over his shoulder to check that Moody was definitely out of earshot and went on.  
Boo
 Day?  And when are we supposed to read up on resisting the Imperius Curse with everything else we

All the fourth years had noticed a definite increase in the amount of work they were required to do this term.  Professor McGonagall explained why, when the class gave a particularly loud groan at the amount of Transfiguration homework she had assigned.

  she told them, her eyes glinting dangerously behind her square spectacles.  


t take O.W.L.s till fifth year!" s aid Dean Thomas indignantly.
"Maybe not, Thomas, but believe me, you need all the preparation you can get!  Miss Granger remains the only person in this class who has managed to turn a hedgehog into a satisfactory pincushion.  I might remind you that your pincushion, Thomas, still curls up in fright if anyone approaches it with a pin!"
Hermione, who had turned rather pink again, seemed to be trying not to look too pleased with herself.
Harry and Ron were deeply amused when Professor Trelawney told them that they had received top marks for their homework in their next Divination class.  She read out large portions of their predictions, commending them for their unflinching acceptance of the horrors in store for them - but they were less amused when she asked them to do the same thing for the month after next; both of them were running out of ideas for catastrophes.
Meanwhile Professor Binns, the ghost who taught History of Magic, had them writing weekly essays on the goblin rebellions of the eighteenth century.  Professor Snape was forcing them to research antidotes.  They took this one seriously, as he had hinted that he might be poisoning one of them before Christmas to see if their antidote worked.  Professor Flitwick had asked them to read three extra books in preparation for their lesson on Summoning Charms.
Even Hagrid was adding to their workload.  The Blast-Ended Skrewts were growing at a remarkable pace given that nobody had yet discovered what they ate.  Hagrid was delighted, and as part of their "project," suggested that they come down to his hut on alternate evenings to observe the skrewts and make notes on their extraordinary behavior.
"I will not," said Draco Malfoy flatly when Hagrid had proposed this with the air of Father Christmas pulling an extra-large toy out of his sack.  "I see enough of these foul things during lessons, thanks."
Hagrid
Yeh'll do wha' yer told,
or I'll be takin' a leaf outta Professor Moody's book. . . . I hear yeh made a good ferret, Malfoy.
s punishment was still sufficiently painful to stop him from retorting. Harry, Ron, and Hermione returned to the castle at the end of the lesson in high spirits; seeing Hagrid put down Malfoy was particularly satisfying, especially because Malfoy had done his very best to get Hagrid sacked the previous year.
When they arrived in the entrance hall, they found themselves unable to proceed owing to the large crowd of students congregated there, all milling around a large sign that had been erected at the foot of the marble staircase.  Ron, the tallest of the three, stood on tiptoe to see over the heads in front of them and read the sign aloud to the other two:


TRIWIZARD TOURNAMENT
THE DELEGATIONS FROM BEAUXBATONS AND
DURMSTRANG WILL BE ARRIVING AT 6 O
Brilliant!
It's Potions last thing on Friday!  Snape won't have time to poison us all!
Only a week away!
I wonder if Cedric knows?  Think I'll go and tell him. . . .
Cedric?
Diggory,
He must be entering the tournament.
That idiot, Hogwarts champion?
He's not an idiot.  You just don't like him because he beat Gryffindor at Quidditch,
I've heard he's a really good student - and he's a prefect.
You only like him because he's handsome,
Excuse me, I don't like people just because they're handsome!
Lockhart!
Longbottom, kindly do not reveal that you can't even perform a simple Switching Spell in front of anyone from Durmstrang!
 table, the largest banner of all bore the Hogwarts coat of arms: lion, eagle, badger, and snake united around a large letter H.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat down beside Fred and George at the Gryffindor table. Once again, and most unusually, they were sitting apart from everyone else and conversing in low voices. Ron led the way over to them.
"It
 George was saying gloomily to Fred. 
t talk to us in person, we
ll stuff it into his hand.  He can
Who's avoiding you?
Wish you would,
What's a bummer?
Having a nosy git like you for a brother,
You two got any ideas on the Triwizard Tournament yet?
Thought any more about trying to enter?
I asked McGonagall how the champions are chosen but she wasn't telling,
She just told me to shut up and get on with transfiguring my raccoon.
Wonder what the tasks are going to be?
You know, I bet we could do them, Harry.  We've done dangerous stuff before. . . .
Not in front of a panel of judges, you haven't,
McGonagall says the champions get awarded points according to how well they've done the tasks.
Who are the judges?
Well, the Heads of the participating schools are always on the panel,
because all three of them were injured during the Tournament of 1792, when a cockatrice the champions were supposed to be catching went on the rampage.
It's all in Hogwarts, A History.  Though, of course, that book's not entirely reliable.  A Revised History of Hogwarts would be a more accurate title.  Or A Highly Biased and Selective History of Hogwarts, Which Glosses Over the Nastier Aspects of the School.
What are you on about?
House-elves!
Not once, in over a thousand pages, does Hogwarts, A History mention that we are all colluding in the oppression of a hundred slaves!
s lack of enthusiasm had done nothing whatsoever to curb Hermione
You do realize that your sheets are changed, your fires lit, your classrooms cleaned, and your food cooked by a group of magical creatures who are unpaid and enslaved?
Listen, have you ever been down in the kitchens, Hermione?
No, of course not,
I hardly think students are supposed to -
Well, we have,
loads of times, to nick food.  And we've met them, and they're happy.  They think they've got the best job in the world -
That's because they're uneducated and brainwashed!
s shoulder, folded her wings, and held out her leg wearily.
Harry pulled off Sirius
s letter in a whisper to Ron and Hermione.

Nice try, Harry.
I
s going on at Hogwarts.  Don
t worry about me, just watch out for yourself Don
Why d'you have to keep changing owls?
Hedwig'll attract too much attention,
She stands out.  A snowy owl that keeps returning to wherever he's hiding. . . I mean, they're not native birds, are they?
t deny either that the idea that Sirius was much nearer was reassuring; at least he wouldn
Thanks, Hedwig,
Weasley, straighten your hat,
Miss Patil, take that ridiculous thing out of your hair.
Follow me, please,
First years in front. . . no pushing.. .
They filed down the steps and lined up in front of the castle.  It was a cold, clear evening; dusk was falling and a pale, transparent-looking moon was already shining over the Forbidden Forest.  Harry, standing between Ron and Hermione in the fourth row from the front, saw Dennis Creevey positively shivering with anticipation among the other first years.

 said Ron, checking his watch and then staring down the drive that led to the front gates.  
you reckon they


 said Hermione.

  Harry suggested, looking up at the starry sky.
 
t think so. . . not from that far away.. .
"A Portkey?" Ron suggested.  "Or they could Apparate - maybe you


t Apparate inside the Hogwarts grounds, how often do I have to tell you?" said Hermione impatiently.
They scanned the darkening grounds excitedly, but nothing was moving; everything was still, silent, and quite as usual.  Harry was starting to feel cold.  He wished they
always the same - we can't resist showing off when we get together. ..
Aha!  Unless I am very much mistaken, the delegation from Beauxbatons approaches!
Where?
There!
It's a dragon!
Don't be stupid. . . it's a flying house!
s guess was closer. . . . As the gigantic black shape skimmed over the treetops of the Forbidden Forest and the lights shining from the castle windows hit it, they saw a gigantic, powderblue, horse-drawn carriage, the size of a large house, soaring toward them, pulled through the air by a dozen winged horses, all palominos, and each the size of an elephant.
The front three rows of students drew backward as the carriage hurtled ever lower, coming in to land at a tremendous speed - then, with an almighty crash that made Neville jump backward onto a Slytherin fifth year
 hooves, larger than dinner plates, hit the ground.  A second later, the carriage landed too, bouncing upon its vast wheels, while the golden horses tossed their enormous heads and rolled large, fiery red eyes.
Harry just had time to see that the door of the carriage bore a coat of arms (two crossed, golden wands, each emitting three stars) before it opened.
A boy in pale blue robes jumped down from the carriage, bent forward, fumbled for a moment with something on the carriage floor, and unfolded a set of golden steps.  He sprang back respectfully.  Then Harry saw a shining, high-heeled black shoe emerging from the inside of the carriage - a shoe the size of a child
My dear Madame Maxime,
Welcome to Hogwarts.
Dumbly-dort,
I 'ope I find you well?
In excellent form, I thank you,
My pupils,
s enormous shadow), they were staring up at Hogwarts with apprehensive looks on their faces.
"As Karkaroff arrived yet?"  Madame Maxime asked.
"He should be here any moment," said Dumbledore.  "Would you like to wait here and greet him or would you prefer to step inside and warm up a trifle?"
 "Warm up, I think," said Madame Maxime. "But ze 
 
 
 said Dumbledore, 


 Ron muttered to Harry, grinning.

andling," said Madame Maxime, looking as though she doubted whether any Care of Magical Creatures teacher at Hogwarts could be up to the job.  "Zey are very strong. . . ."
"I assure you that Hagrid will be well up to the job," said Dumbledore, smiling.
"Very well," said Madame Maxime, bowing slightly. "Will you please inform zis 
orses drink only single-malt whiskey?"
"It will be attended to," said Dumbledore, also bowing. 
"Come," said Madame Maxime imperiously to her students, and the Hogwarts crowd parted to allow her and her students to pass up the stone steps.
"How big d
s horses are going to be?"  Seamus Finnigan said, leaning around Lavender and Parvati to address Harry and Ron.
"Well, if they
t be able to handle them," said Harry.  "That
t been attacked by his skrewts.  Wonder what


ve escaped," said Ron hopefully.
"Oh don
 said Hermione with a shudder. 

They stood, shivering slightly now, waiting for the Durmstrang party to arrive. Most people were gazing hopefully up at the sky.
 For a few minutes, the silence was broken only by Madame Maxime's huge horses snorting and stamping. But then - 
  said Ron suddenly.
Harry listened; a loud and oddly eerie noise was drifting toward them from out of the darkness:  a muffled rumbling and sucking sound, as though an immense vacuum cleaner were moving along a riverbed.

  yelled Lee Jordan, pointing down at it.  

From their position at the top of the lawns overlooking the grounds, they had a clear view of the smooth black surface of the water - except that the surface was suddenly not smooth at all. Some disturbance was taking place deep in the center; great bubbles were forming on the surface, waves were now washing over the muddy banks - and then, out in the very middle of the lake, a whirlpool appeared, as if a giant plug had just been pulled out of the lake's floor. .
What seemed to be a long, black pole began to rise slowly out of the heart of the whirlpool. . . and then Harry saw the rigging....

s a mast!"  he said to Ron and Hermione.
Slowly, magnificently, the ship rose out of the water, gleaming in the moonlight.  It had a strangely skeletal look about it, as though it were a resurrected wreck, and the dim, misty lights shimmering at its portholes looked like ghostly eyes.  Finally, with a great sloshing noise, the ship emerged entirely, bobbing on the turbulent water, and began to glide toward the bank.  A few moments later, they heard the splash of an anchor being thrown down in the shallows, and the thud of a plank being lowered onto the bank.
People were disembarking; they could see their silhouettes passing the lights in the ship
Dumbledore!
How are you, my dear fellow, how are you?
Blooming, thank you, Professor Karkaroff,
Dear old Hogwarts,
How good it is to be here, how good.. . . Viktor, come along, into the warmth. . . you don't mind, Dumbledore?  Viktor has a slight head cold...
t need the punch on the arm Ron gave him, or the hiss in his ear, to recognize that profile.
"Harry - it


CHAPTER SIXTEEN - THE GOBLET OF FIRE

		I don't believe it!
Krum, Harry!  Viktor Krum!
For heaven's sake, Ron, he's only a Quidditch player,
Only a Quidditch player?
t believe his ears.  "Hermione - he

		As they recrossed the entrance hall with the rest of the Hogwarts students heading for the Great Hall, Harry saw Lee Jordan jumping up and down on the soles of his feet to get a better look at the back of Krum's head.  Several sixth-year girls were frantically searching their pockets as they walked - 
t believe it, I haven


you think he


 Hermione said loftily as they passed the girls, now squabbling over the lipstick.

m getting his autograph if I can," said Ron. "You haven


re upstairs in my bag," said Harry.
They walked over to the Gryffindor table and sat down. Ron took care to sit on the side facing the doorway, because Krum and his fellow Durmstrang students were still gathered around it, apparently unsure about where they should sit.  The students from Beauxbatons had chosen seats at the Ravenclaw table.  They were looking around the Great Hall with glum expressions on their faces.  Three of them were still clutching scarves and shawls around their heads.
"It
 said Hermione defensively.  
t they bring cloaks?"
"Over here! Come and sit over here!"  Ron hissed.  "Over here! Hermione, budge up, make a space -"
"What?"
"Too late," said Ron bitterly.
Viktor Krum and his fellow Durmstrang students had settled themselves at the Slytherin table.  Harry could see Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle looking very smug about this.  As he watched, Malfoy bent forward to speak to Krum.
"Yeah, that
 said Ron scathingly.  
you reckon they
t mind giving him my bed, I could kip on a camp bed."
 Hermione snorted.
"They look a lot happier than the Beauxbatons lot," said Harry.  The Durmstrang students were pulling off their heavy furs and looking up at the starry black ceiling with expressions of interest; a couple of them were picking up the golden plates and goblets and examining them, apparently impressed.
Up at the staff table, Filch, the caretaker, was adding chairs.  He was wearing his moldy old tailcoat in honor of the occasion.  Harry was surprised to see that he added four chairs, two on either side of Dumbledore
But there are only two extra people,
Why's Filch putting out four chairs, who else is coming?
Eh?
s left-hand side.  Dumbledore remained standing, and a silence fell over the Great Hall.
"Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, ghosts and - most particularly - guests," said Dumbledore, beaming around at the foreign students.  "I have great pleasure in welcoming you all to Hogwarts.  I hope and trust that your stay here will be both comfortable and enjoyable."
One of the Beauxbatons girls still clutching a muffler around her head gave what was unmistakably a derisive laugh.
"No one
  Hermione whispered, bristling at her.

 said Dumbledore. 

He sat down, and Harry saw Karkaroff lean forward at once and engage him in conversation.
The plates in front of them filled with food as usual.  The house-elves in the kitchen seemed to have pulled out all the stops; there was a greater variety of dishes in front of them than Harry had ever seen, including several that were definitely foreign.

s that?" said Ron, pointing at a large dish of some sort of shellfish stew that stood beside a large steak-and-kidney pudding.
"Bouillabaisse," said Hermione.
"Bless you," said Ron.
"It
 said Hermione, 
s very nice."
"I
 said Ron, helping himself to black pudding.
The Great Hall seemed somehow much more crowded than usual, even though there were barely twenty additional students there; perhaps it was because their differently colored uniforms stood out so clearly against the black of the Hogwarts' robes.  Now that they had removed their furs, the Durmstrang students were revealed to be wearing robes of a deep bloodred.
Hagrid sidled into the Hall through a door behind the staff table twenty minutes after the start of the feast.  He slid into his seat at the end and waved at Harry, Ron, and Hermione with a very heavily bandaged hand.

 Harry called.

," Hagrid called back happily.
"Yeah, I
 said Ron quietly.  
ve finally found a food they like, doesn
s fingers."
At that moment, a voice said, "Excuse me, are you wanting ze bouillabaisse?"
It was the girl from Beauxbatons who had laughed during Dumbledore
Yeah, have it,
You 'ave finished wiz it?
Yeah,
Yeah, it was excellent.
She's a veela!
Of course she isn't!
I don't see anyone else gaping at her like an idiot!
t entirely right about that.  As the girl crossed the Hall, many boys
I'm telling you, that's not a normal girl!
They don't make them like that at Hogwarts!
They make them okay at Hogwarts,
When you've both put your eyes back in,
you'll be able to see who's just arrived.
s other side, while Mr. Crouch, Percy
What are they doing here?
They organized the Triwizard Tournament, didn't they?
I suppose they wanted to be here to see it start.
The moment has come,
The Triwizard Tournament is about to start. I would like to say a few words of explanation before we bring in the casket --
The what?
- just to clarify the procedure that we will be following this year.  But first, let me introduce, for those who do not know them, Mr. Bartemius Crouch, Head of the Department of International Magical Cooperation
and Mr. Ludo Bagman, Head of the Department of Magical Games and Sports.
s robes.  His toothbrush mustache and severe parting looked very odd next to Dumbledore
Mr. Bagman and Mr. Crouch have worked tirelessly over the last few months on the arrangements for the Triwizard Tournament,
and they will be joining myself, Professor Karkaroff, and Madame Maxime on the panel that will judge the champions' efforts.
champions,
The casket, then, if you please, Mr. Filch.
s.
"The instructions for the tasks the champions will face this year have already been examined by Mr. Crouch and Mr. Bagman," said Dumbledore as Filch placed the chest carefully on the table before him, "and they have made the necessary arrangements for each challenge.  There will be three tasks, spaced throughout the school year, and they will test the champions in many different ways.. their magical prowess - their daring - their powers of deduction - and, of course, their ability to cope with danger."
At this last word, the Hall was filled with a silence so absolute that nobody seemed to be breathing.
"As you know, three champions compete in the tournament," Dumbledore went on calmly, "one from each of the participating schools.  They will be marked on how well they perform each of the Tournament tasks and the champion with the highest total after task three will win the Triwizard Cup.  The champions will be chosen by an impartial selector:  the Goblet of Fire."
Dumbledore now took out his wand and tapped three times upon the top of the casket. The lid creaked slowly open.  Dumbledore reached inside it and pulled out a large, roughly hewn wooden cup.  It would have been entirely unremarkable had it not been full to the brim with dancing blue-white flames.
Dumbledore closed the casket and placed the goblet carefully on top of it, where it would be clearly visible to everyone in the Hall.
"Anybody wishing to submit themselves as champion must write their name and school clearly upon a slip of parchment and drop it into the goblet," said Dumbledore. "Aspiring champions have twenty-four hours in which to put their names forward.  Tomorrow night, Halloween, the goblet will return the names of the three it has judged most worthy to represent their schools.  The goblet will be placed in the entrance hall tonight, where it will be freely accessible to all those wishing to compete.
"To ensure that no underage student yields to temptation," said Dumbledore, "I will be drawing an Age Line around the Goblet of Fire once it has been placed in the entrance hall. Nobody under the age of seventeen will be able to cross this line.
"Finally, I wish to impress upon any of you wishing to compete that this tournament is not to be entered into lightly. Once a champion has been selected by the Goblet of Fire, he or she is obliged to see the tournament through to the end.  The placing of your name in the goblet constitutes a binding, magical contract.  There can be no change of heart once you have become a champion.  Please be very sure, therefore, that you are wholeheartedly prepared to play before you drop your name into the goblet.  Now, I think it is time for bed.  Good night to you all."
"An Age Line!"  Fred Weasley said, his eyes glinting, as they all made their way across the Hall to the doors into the entrance hall.  "Well, that should be fooled by an Aging Potion, shouldn
s in that goblet, you
t tell whether you


t think anyone under seventeen will stand a chance," said Hermione, "we just haven


 said George shortly.  
ll try and get in, won

Harry thought briefly of Dumbledore's insistence that nobody under seventeen should submit their name, but then the wonderful picture of himself winning the Triwizard Tournament filled his mind again. .. . He wondered how angry Dumbledore would be if someone younger than seventeen did find a way to get over the Age Line.

 said Ron, who wasn't listening to a word of this conversation, but looking through the crowd to see what had become of Krum.  
t say where the Durmstrang people are sleeping, did he?"
But this query was answered almost instantly; they were level with the Slytherin table now, and Karkaroff had just bustled up to his students.
"Back to the ship, then," he was saying. "Viktor, how are you feeling?  Did you eat enough?  Should I send for some mulled wine from the kitchens?"
Harry saw Krum shake his head as he pulled his furs back on.  "Professor, Ivood like some vine," said one of the other Durmstrang boys hopefully.
"I wasn
 snapped Karkaroff, his warmly paternal air vanishing in an instant. 

Karkaroff turned and led his students toward the doors, reaching them at exactly the same moment as Harry, Ron, and Hermione.  Harry stopped to let him walk through first.

 said Karkaroff carelessly, glancing at him.  And then Karkaroff froze.  He turned his head back to Harry and stared at him as though he couldn't believe his eyes.  Behind their headmaster, the students from Durmstrang came to a halt too.  Karkaroff's eyes moved slowly up Harry's face and fixed upon his scar.  The Durmstrang students were staring curiously at Harry too.  Out of the corner of his eye, Harry saw comprehension dawn on a few of their faces.  The boy with food all down his front nudged the girl next to him and pointed openly at Harry's forehead.

s Harry Potter," said a growling voice from behind them.
Professor Karkaroff spun around. Mad-Eye Moody was standing there, leaning heavily on his staff, his magical eye glaring unblinkingly at the Durmstrang headmaster.
The color drained from Karkaroff
You!
Me,
And unless you've got anything to say to Potter, Karkaroff, you might want to move. You're blocking the doorway.
s shoulders to see what was causing the holdup.
Without another word, Professor Karkaroff swept his students away with him.  Moody watched him until he was out of sight, his magical eye fixed upon his back, a look of intense dislike upon his mutilated face.

As the next day was Saturday, most students would normally have breakfasted late. Harry, Ron, and Hermione, however, were not alone in rising much earlier than they usually did on weekends.  When they went down into the entrance hall, they saw about twenty people milling around it, some of them eating toast, all examining the Goblet of Fire.  It had been placed in the center of the hall on the stool that normally bore the Sorting Hat.  A thin golden line had been traced on the floor, forming a circle ten feet around it in every direction.
"Anyone put their name in yet?"  Ron asked a third-year girl eagerly.
"All the Durmstrang lot," she replied. "But I haven


d all gone to bed," said Harry.  "I would
t have wanted everyone watching.  What if the goblet just gobbed you right back out again?"
Someone laughed behind Harry.  Turning, he saw Fred, George, and Lee Jordan hurrying down the staircase, all three of them looking extremely excited.
"Done it," Fred said in a triumphant whisper to Harry, Ron, and Hermione. "Just taken it."
"What?" said Ron.
"The Aging Potion, dung brains," said Fred.
"One drop each," said George, rubbing his hands together with glee.  "We only need to be a few months older."
"We
 said Lee, grinning broadly.

m not sure this is going to work, you know," said Hermione warningly. "I

Fred, George, and Lee ignored her.

  Fred said to the other two, quivering with excitement. 
mon, then - I

Harry watched, fascinated, as Fred pulled a slip of parchment out of his pocket bearing the words Fred Weasley - Hogwarts.  Fred walked right up to the edge of the line and stood there, rocking on his toes like a diver preparing for a fifty-foot drop. Then, with the eyes of every person in the entrance hall upon him, he took a great breath and stepped over the line.
For a split second Harry thought it had worked - George certainly thought so, for he let out a yell of triumph and leapt after Fred - but next moment, there was a loud sizzling sound, and both twins were hurled out of the golden circle as though they had been thrown by an invisible shot-putter.  They landed painfully, ten feet away on the cold stone floor, and to add insult to injury, there was a loud popping noise, and both of them sprouted identical long white beards.
The entrance hall rang with laughter.  Even Fred and George joined in, once they had gotten to their feet and taken a good look at each other's beards.

 said a deep, amused voice, and everyone turned to see Professor Dumbledore coming out of the Great Hall.  He surveyed Fred and George, his eyes twinkling. 

Fred and George set off for the hospital wing, accompanied by Lee, who was howling with laughter, and Harry, Ron, and Hermione, also chortling, went in to breakfast.
The decorations in the Great Hall had changed this morning. As it was Halloween, a cloud of live bats was fluttering around the enchanted ceiling, while hundreds of carved pumpkins leered from every corner.  Harry led the way over to Dean and Seamus, who were discussing those Hogwarts students of seventeen or over who might be entering.

s a rumor going around that Warrington got up early and put his name in," Dean told Harry.  "That big bloke from Slytherin who looks like a sloth."
Harry, who had played Quidditch against Warrington, shook his head in disgust.
"We can


 said Seamus contemptuously.  
t have thought he


 said Hermione suddenly.
People were cheering out in the entrance hall.  They all swiveled around in their seats and saw Angelina Johnson coming into the Hall, grinning in an embarrassed sort of way.  A tall black girl who played Chaser on the Gryffindor Quidditch team, Angelina came over to them, sat down, and said, 
ve done it!  Just put my name in!"
"You
 said Ron, looking impressed.

 asked Harry.

t see a beard, can you?" said Ron.
"I had my birthday last week," said Angelina.
"Well, I
s entering," said Hermione. "I really hope you get it, Angelina!"
"Thanks, Hermione," said Angelina, smiling at her.
Yeah, better you than Pretty-Boy Diggory, said Seamus, causing several Hufflepuffs passing their table to scowl heavily at him.
"What
  Ron asked Harry and Hermione when they had finished breakfast and were leaving the Great Hall.

t been down to visit Hagrid yet," said Harry.
"Okay," said Ron, "just as long as he doesn

A look of great excitement suddenly dawned on Hermione's face.

ve just realized - I haven
  she said brightly. 


  said Ron, exasperated, as Hermione ran away up the marble staircase.

 said Harry suddenly. 
s your friend. . ."
The students from Beauxbatons were coming through the front doors from the grounds, among them, the veela-girl.  Those gathered around the Goblet of Fire stood back to let them pass, watching eagerly.
Madame Maxime entered the hall behind her students and organized them into a line. One by one, the Beauxbatons students stepped across the Age Line and dropped their slips of parchment into the blue-white flames.  As each name entered the fire, it turned briefly red and emitted sparks.
"What d
ll happen to the ones who aren
  Ron muttered to Harry as the veela-girl dropped her parchment into the Goblet of Fire.  
ll go back to school, or hang around to watch the tournament?"
"Dunno," said Harry.  "Hang around, I suppose... . Madame Maxime
t she?"
 When all the Beauxbatons students had submitted their names, Madame Maxime led them back out of the hall and out onto the grounds again.
"Where are they sleeping, then?"  said Ron, moving toward the front doors and staring after them.
A loud rattling noise behind them announced Hermione
Oh good, hurry up,
s cabin on the edge of the Forbidden Forest, the mystery of the Beauxbatons
s front door, and the students were climbing back inside it.  The elephantine flying horses that had pulled the carriage were now grazing in a makeshift paddock alongside it.
Harry knocked on Hagrid
s booming barks answered instantly.
"Bout time!"  said Hagrid, when he
Thought you lot'd forgotten where I live!
We've been really busy, Hag -
t the worst of it, though; he had evidently tried to tame his hair, using large quantities of what appeared to be axle grease.  It was now slicked down into two bunches - perhaps he had tried a ponytail like Bill
t really suit Hagrid at all. For a moment, Hermione goggled at him, then, obviously deciding not to comment, she said, "Erm - where are the skrewts."
"Out by the pumpkin patch," said Hagrid happily.  "They
 massive, mus
y trouble is, they
 each other."
"Oh no, really?"  said Hermione, shooting a repressive look at Ron, who, staring at Hagrid
Yeah,
S' okay, though, I've got 'em in separate boxes now.  Still got abou' twenty.
Well, that's lucky,
s cabin comprised a single room, in one corner of which was a gigantic bed covered in a patchwork quilt.  A similarly enormous wooden table and chairs stood in front of the fire beneath the quantity of cured hams and dead birds hanging from the ceiling.  They sat down at the table while Hagrid started to make tea, and were soon immersed in yet more discussion of the Triwizard Tournament.  Hagrid seemed quite as excited about it as they were.
"You wait," he said, grinning.  "You jus
ve never seen before.  Firs
m not supposed ter say."
"Go on, Hagrid!" Harry, Ron, and Hermione urged him, but he just shook his head, grinning.
"I don
 said Hagrid.  
s gonna be spectacular, I
re going ter have their work cut out. Never thought I

They ended up having lunch with Hagrid, though they didn't eat much - Hagrid had made what he said was a beef casserole, but after Hermione unearthed a large talon in hers, she, Harry, and Ron rather lost their appetites.  However, they enjoyed themselves trying to make Hagrid tell them what the tasks in the tournament were going to be, speculating which of the entrants were likely to be selected as champions, and wondering whether Fred and George were beardless yet.
A light rain had started to fall by midafternoon; it was very cozy sitting by the fire, listening to the gentle patter of the drops on the window, watching Hagrid darning his socks and arguing with Hermione about house-elves - for he flatly refused to join S.P.E.W. when she showed him her badges.

d be doin
em an unkindness, Hermione," he said gravely, threading a massive bone needle with thick yellow yarn.  "It
s what they like, see? Yeh
 
 insutin
em if yeh tried ter pay 


  said Hermione.  
s asking for wages now!"
"Yeah, well, yeh get weirdos in every breed.  I
 there isn
d take freedom, but yeh
em ter do it - no, nothin
, Hermione."
Hermione looked very cross indeed and stuffed her box of badges back into her cloak pocket.
By half past five it was growing dark, and Ron, Harry, and Hermione decided it was time to get back up to the castle for the Halloween feast - and, more important, the announcement of the school champions.
 "I
 said Hagrid, putting away his darning.  
 give us a sec."
Hagrid got up, went across to the chest of drawers beside his bed, and began searching for something inside it.  They didn
Hagrid, what's that?
Eh?
Don' yeh like it?
Is that aftershave?
Er - eau de cologne,
Maybe it's a bit much,
I'll go take it off, hang on...
Eau de cologne?
Hagrid?
And what's with the hair and the suit?
Look!
round.  If he had been blushing before, it was nothing to what he was doing now. Getting to their feet very cautiously, so that Hagrid wouldn
t hear what Hagrid was saying, but he was talking to Madame Maxime with a rapt, misty-eyed expression Harry had only ever seen him wear once before - when he had been looking at the baby dragon, Norbert.
 "He
  said Hermione indignantly.  

Without so much as a backward glance at his cabin, Hagrid was trudging off up the grounds with Madame Maxime, the Beaux-batons students following in their wake, jogging to keep up with their enormous strides.

  said Ron incredulously.  
ll be setting a world record - bet any baby of theirs would weigh about a ton."
They let themselves out of the cabin and shut the door behind them.  It was surprisingly dark outside.  Drawing their cloaks more closely around themselves, they set off up the sloping lawns.
"Ooh it
 Hermione whispered.
The Durmstrang party was walking up toward the castle from the lake. Viktor Krum was walking side by side with Karkaroff, and the other Durmstrang students were straggling along behind them.  Ron watched Krum excitedly, but Krum did not look around as he reached the front doors a little ahead of Hermione, Ron, and Harry and proceeded through them.
When they entered the candlelit Great Hall it was almost full.  The Goblet of Fire had been moved; it was now standing in front of Dumbledore's empty chair at the teachers' table. Fred and George - clean-shaven again - seemed to have taken their disappointment fairly well.

s Angelina," said Fred as Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat down.
"So do I!"  said Hermione breathlessly.  "Well, we

The Halloween feast seemed to take much longer than usual.  Perhaps because it was their second feast in two days, Harry didn't seem to fancy the extravagantly prepared food as much as he would have normally.  Like everyone else in the Hall, judging by the constantly craning necks, the impatient expressions on every face, the fidgeting, and the standing up to see whether Dumbledore had finished eating yet, Harry simply wanted the plates to clear, and to hear who had been selected as champions.
At long last, the golden plates returned to their original spotless state; there was a sharp upswing in the level of noise within the Hall, which died away almost instantly as Dumbledore got to his feet.  On either side of him, Professor Karkaroff and Madame Maxime looked as tense and expectant as anyone.  Ludo Bagman was beaming and winking at various students. Mr. Crouch, however, looked quite uninterested, almost bored.

 said Dumbledore. 
 names are called, I would ask them please to come up to the top of the Hall, walk along the staff table, and go through into the next chamber" - he indicated the door behind the staff table - "where they will be receiving their first instructions."
He took out his wand and gave a great sweeping wave with it; at once, all the candles except those inside the carved pumpkins were extinguished, plunging them into a state of semidarkness.  The Goblet of Fire now shone more brightly than anything in the whole Hall, the sparkling bright, bluey-whiteness of the flames almost painful on the eyes. Everyone watched, waiting. . . . A few people kept checking their watches. . .
"Any second," Lee Jordan whispered, two seats away from Harry.
 The flames inside the goblet turned suddenly red again.  Sparks began to fly from it. Next moment, a tongue of flame shot into the air, a charred piece of parchment fluttered out of it - the whole room gasped.
Dumbledore caught the piece of parchment and held it at arm
The champion for Durmstrang,
will be Viktor Krum.
No surprises there!
Bravo, Viktor!
Knew you had it in you!
s attention was focused again on the goblet, which, seconds later, turned red once more.  A second piece of parchment shot out of it, propelled by the flames.
"The champion for Beauxbatons," said Dumbledore, "is Fleur Delacour!"
"It
  Harry shouted as the girl who so resembled a veela got gracefully to her feet, shook back her sheet of silvery blonde hair, and swept up between the Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff tables.

re all disappointed," Hermione said over the noise, nodding toward the remainder of the Beauxbatons party.  "Disappointed" was a bit of an understatement, Harry thought.  Two of the girls who had not been selected had dissolved into tears and were sobbing with their heads on their arms.
When Fleur Delacour too had vanished into the side chamber, silence fell again, but this time it was a silence so stiff with excitement you could almost taste it.  The Hogwarts champion next...
And the Goblet of Fire turned red once more; sparks showered out of it; the tongue of flame shot high into the air, and from its tip Dumbledore pulled the third piece of parchment.
"The Hogwarts champion," he called, "is Cedric Diggory!"
"No! " said Ron loudly, but nobody heard him except Harry; the uproar from the next table was too great.  Every single Hufflepuff had jumped to his or her feet, screaming and stamping, as Cedric made his way past them, grinning broadly, and headed off toward the chamber behind the teachers
Excellent!
Well, we now have our three champions.  I am sure I can count upon all of you, including the remaining students from Beauxbatons and Durmstrang, to give your champions every ounce of support you can muster.  By cheering your champion on, you will contribute in a very real --
Harry Potter.
I didn't put my name in,
You know I didn't.
Harry Potter!
Harry!  Up here, if you please!
Go on,
t seem to be getting any nearer at all, and he could feel hundreds and hundreds of eyes upon him, as though each were a searchlight.  The buzzing grew louder and louder.  After what seemed like an hour, he was right in front of Dumbledore, feeling the stares of all the teachers upon him.
		"Well.. . through the door, Harry," said Dumbledore. He wasn
 table.  Hagrid was seated right at the end.  He did not wink at Harry, or wave, or give any of his usual signs of greeting.  He looked completely astonished and stared at Harry as he passed like everyone else.  Harry went through the door out of the Great Hall and found himself in a smaller room, lined with paintings of witches and wizards.  A handsome fire was roaring in the fireplace opposite him.
		The faces in the portraits turned to look at him as he entered.  He saw a wizened witch flit out of the frame of her picture and into the one next to it, which contained a wizard with a walrus mustache.  The wizened witch started whispering in his ear.
Viktor Krum, Cedric Diggory, and Fleur Delacour were grouped around the fire.  They looked strangely impressive, silhouetted against the flames. Krum, hunched-up and brooding, was leaning against the mantelpiece, slightly apart from the other two.  Cedric was standing with his hands behind his back, staring into the fire.  Fleur Delacour looked around when Harry walked in and threw back her sheet of long, silvery hair.
"What is it?"  she said.  "Do zey want us back in ze Hall?"
She thought he had come to deliver a message.  Harry didn
Extraordinary!
s arm.  "Absolutely extraordinary! Gentlemen. . . lady," he added, approaching the fireside and addressing the other three.  "May I introduce - incredible though it may seem - the fourth Triwizard champion?"
Viktor Krum straightened up.  His surly face darkened as he surveyed Harry.  Cedric looked nonplussed.  He looked from Bagman to Harry and back again as though sure he must have misheard what Bagman had said.  Fleur Delacour, however, tossed her hair, smiling, and said, "Oh, vairy funny joke, Meester Bagman."
"Joke?" Bagman repeated, bewildered.  "No, no, not at all!  Harry

Krum's thick eyebrows contracted slightly.  Cedric was still looking politely bewildered. Fleur frowned.

as been a mistake," she said contemptuously to Bagman.  "E cannot compete. 


 said Bagman, rubbing his smooth chin and smiling down at Harry.  
s come out of the goblet.. . I mean, I don
s down in the rules, you

The door behind them opened again, and a large group of people came in: Professor Dumbledore, followed closely by Mr. Crouch, Professor Karkaroff, Madame Maxime, Professor McGonagall, and Professor Snape. Harry heard the buzzing of the hundreds of students on the other side of the wall, before Professor McGonagall closed the door.

  said Fleur at once, striding over to her headmistress.  

Somewhere under Harry's numb disbelief he felt a ripple of anger.  Little boy?
Madame Maxime had drawn herself up to her full, and considerable, height.  The top of her handsome head brushed the candle-filled chandelier, and her gigantic black-satin bosom swelled.

  she said imperiously.  
d rather like to know that myself, Dumbledore," said Professor Karkaroff.  He was wearing a steely smile, and his blue eyes were like chips of ice.  "Two Hogwarts champions?  I don

He gave a short and nasty laugh.

est impossible," said Madame Maxime, whose enormous hand with its many superb opals was resting upon Fleur
Ogwarts cannot 'ave two champions.  It is most injust.
We were under the impression that your Age Line would keep out younger contestants, Dumbledore,
Otherwise, we would, of course, have brought along a wider selection of candidates from our own schools.
It's no one's fault but Potter's, Karkaroff,
Don't go blaming Dumbledore for Potter's determination to break rules.  He has been crossing lines ever since he arrived here -
Thank you, Severus,
Did you put your name into the Goblet of Fire, Harry?
No,
Did you ask an older student to put it into the Goblet of Fire for you?
No,
Ah, but of course 'e is lying!
He could not have crossed the Age Line,
I am sure we are all agreed on that -
Dumbly-dorr must 'ave made a mistake wiz ze line,
It is possible, of course,
Dumbledore, you know perfectly well you did not make a mistake!
Really, what nonsense!  Harry could not have crossed the line himself, and as Professor Dumbledore believes that he did not persuade an older student to do it for him, I'm sure that should be good enough for everybody else!
Mr. Crouch.. . Mr. Bagman,
you are our - er - objective judges.  Surely you will agree that this is most irregular?
We must follow the rules, and the rules state clearly that those people whose names come out of the Goblet of Fire are bound to compete in the tournament.
Well, Barty knows the rule book back to front,
I insist upon resubmitting the names of the rest of my students,
You will set up the Goblet of Fire once more, and we will continue adding names until each school has two champions.  It's only fair, Dumbledore.
But Karkaroff, it doesn't work like that,
The Goblet of Fire's just gone out - it won't reignite until the start of the next tournament -
- in which Durmstrang will most certainly not be competing!
After all our meetings and negotiations and compromises, I little expected something of this nature to occur!  I have half a mind to leave now!
Empty threat, Karkaroff,
You can't leave your champion now.  He's got to compete.  They've all got to compete.  Binding magical contract, like Dumbledore said.  Convenient, eh?
Convenient?
I'm afraid I don't understand you, Moody.
Don't you?
It's very simple, Karkaroff. Someone put Potter's name in that goblet knowing he'd have to compete if it came out.
Evidently, someone 'oo wished to give 'Ogwarts two bites at ze apple!
I quite agree, Madame Maxime,
I shall be lodging complaints with the Ministry of Magic and the International Confederation of Wizards -
If anyone's got reason to complain, it's Potter,
but. . . funny thing. . . I don't hear him saying a word. . .

e complain?" burst out Fleur Delacour, stamping her foot. "E 
asn
e? We 
oping to be chosen for weeks and weeks!  Ze honor for our schools!  A thousand Galleons in prize money - zis is a chance many would die for!"
"Maybe someone
 said Moody, with the merest trace of a growl.
An extremely tense silence followed these words. Ludo Bagman, who was looking very anxious indeed, bounced nervously up and down on his feet and said, 


t discovered six plots to murder him before lunchtime," said Karkaroff loudly.  "Apparently he is now teaching his students to fear assassination too.  An odd quality in a Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, Dumbledore, but no doubt you had your reasons.
"Imagining things, am I?"  growled Moody.  "Seeing things, eh?  It was a skilled witch or wizard who put the boy
Ah, what evidence is zere of zat?
Because they hoodwinked a very powerful magical object!
It would have needed an exceptionally strong Confundus Charm to bamboozle that goblet into forgetting that only three schools compete in the tournament.. . . I'm guessing they submitted Potter's name under a fourth school, to make sure he was the only one in his category.. . .
You seem to have given this a great deal of thought, Moody,
and a very ingenious theory it is - though of course, I heard you recently got it into your head that one of your birthday presents contained a cunningly disguised basilisk egg, and smashed it to pieces before realizing it was a carriage clock.  So you'll understand if we don't take you entirely seriously. . . .
There are those who'll turn innocent occasions to their advantage,
It's my job to think the way Dark wizards do, Karkaroff - as you ought to remember...

  said Dumbledore warningly.  Harry wondered for a moment whom he was speaking to, but then realized 
 could hardly be Moody's real first name.  Moody fell silent, though still surveying Karkaroff with satisfaction - Karkaroff's face was burning.

 said Dumbledore, speaking to everyone gathered in the room.  
Ah, but Dumbly-dorr -
My dear Madame Maxime, if you have an alternative, I would be delighted to hear it.
t the only one either.  Snape looked furious; Karkaroff livid; Bagman, however, looked rather excited.
"Well, shall we crack on, then?"  he said, rubbing his hands together and smiling around the room.  "Got to give our champions their instructions, haven

Mr. Crouch seemed to come out of a deep reverie.

 he said, 

He moved forward into the firelight.  Close up, Harry thought he looked ill.  There were dark shadows beneath his eyes and a thin, papery look about his wrinkled skin that had not been there at the Quidditch World Cup.

 he told Harry, Cedric, Fleur, and Viktor, 
The first task will take place on November the twenty-fourth, in front of the other students and the panel of judges.


Mr. Crouch turned to look at Dumbledore.

s all, is it, Albus?"
"I think so," said Dumbledore, who was looking at Mr. Crouch with mild concern. "Are you sure you wouldn


 said Mr. Crouch.  
ve left young Weatherby in charge.. . . Very enthusiastic. . . a little overenthusiastic, if truth be told. . .
"You
  said Dumbledore.

m staying!" said Bagman brightly.  "It

 
 said Crouch with a touch of his old impatience.

 said Dumbledore.
But Madame Maxime had already put her arm around Fleur's shoulders and was leading her swiftly out of the room.  Harry could hear them both talking very fast in French as they went off into the Great Hall.  Karkaroff beckoned to Krum, and they, too, exited, though in silence.

 said Dumbledore, smiling at both of them. 

Harry glanced at Cedric, who nodded, and they left together.
The Great Hall was deserted now; the candles had burned low, giving the jagged smiles of the pumpkins an eerie, flickering quality.

 said Cedric, with a slight smile. 
re playing against each other again!"
"I s
 said Harry.  He really couldn't think of anything to say.  The inside of his head seemed to be in complete disarray, as though his brain had been ransacked.

 said Cedric as they reached the entrance hall, which was now lit only by torches in the absence of the Goblet of Fire.  


t," said Harry, staring up at him. "I didn

 
 said Cedric.  Harry could tell Cedric didn't believe him.  

Instead of going up the marble staircase, Cedric headed for a door to its right.  Harry stood listening to him going down the stone steps beyond it, then, slowly, he started to climb the marble ones.
Was anyone except Ron and Hermione going to believe him, or would they all think he'd put himself in for the tournament?  Yet how could anyone think that, when he was facing competitors who'd had three years' more magical education than he had - when he was now facing tasks that not only sounded very dangerous, but which were to be performed in front of hundreds of people?  Yes, he'd thought about it. . . he'd fantasized about it.. . but it had been a joke, really, an idle sort of dream. . . he'd never really, seriously considered entering. .
But someone else had considered it. . . someone else had wanted him in the tournament, and had made sure he was entered.  Why?  To give him a treat?  He didn't think so, somehow...
To see him make a fool of himself?  Well, they were likely to get their wish. .
But to get him killed?
Was Moody just being his usual paranoid self?  Couldn't someone have put Harry's name in the goblet as a trick, a practical joke?  Did anyone really want him dead?
Harry was able to answer that at once.  Yes, someone wanted him dead, someone had wanted him dead ever since he had been a year old. . . Lord Voldemort.  But how could Voldemort have ensured that Harry's name got into the Goblet of Fire?  Voldemort was supposed to be far away, in some distant country, in hiding, alone. . . feeble and powerless....
Yet in that dream he had had, just before he had awoken with his scar hurting, Voldemort had not been alone. . . he had been talking to Wormtail.. . plotting Harry's murder.
Harry got a shock to find himself facing the Fat Lady already.  He had barely noticed where his feet were carrying him.  It was also a surprise to see that she was not alone in her frame.  The wizened witch who had flitted into her neighbor's painting when he had joined the champions downstairs was now sitting smugly beside the Fat Lady.  She must have dashed through every picture lining seven staircases to reach here before him.  Both she and the Fat Lady were looking down at him with the keenest interest.

 said the Fat Lady, 
s just told me everything.  Who


 said Harry dully.

t!" said the pale witch indignantly.
"No, no, Vi, it
 said the Fat Lady soothingly, and she swung forward on her hinges to let Harry into the common room.
The blast of noise that met Harry's ears when the portrait opened almost knocked him backward.  Next thing he knew, he was being wrenched inside the common room by about a dozen pairs of hands, and was facing the whole of Gryffindor House, all of whom were screaming, applauding, and whistling.

ve told us you
  bellowed Fred; he looked half annoyed, half deeply impressed.

  roared George.
 
t," Harry said.  "I don

But Angelina had now swooped down upon him; 
t be me, at least it


ll be able to pay back Diggory for that last Quidditch match, Harry!"  shrieked Katie Bell, another of the Gryffindor Chasers.
"We


m not hungry, I had enough at the feast -"
But nobody wanted to hear that he wasn
t put his name in the goblet; not one single person seemed to have noticed that he wasn
t get away; whenever he tried to sidle over to the staircase up to the dormitories, the crowd around him closed ranks, forcing another butterbeer on him, stuffing crisps and peanuts into his hands. . . . Everyone wanted to know how he had done it, how he had tricked Dumbledore
I didn't,
I don't know how it happened.
I'm tired!
No, seriously, George - I'm going to bed -
Where've you been?
Oh hello,
So,
Congratulations.
What d'you mean, congratulations?
Well. . . no one else got across the Age Line,
Not even Fred and George. What did you use - the Invisibility Cloak?
The Invisibility Cloak wouldn't have got me over that line,
Oh right,
I thought you might've told me if it was the cloak. . . because it would've covered both of us, wouldn't it? But you found another way, did you?
Listen,
I didn't put my name in that goblet.  Someone else must've done it.
What would they do that for?
I dunno,
To kill me.
s eyebrows rose so high that they were in danger of disappearing into his hair.
"It
 he said.  
t want everyone else to know, fine, but I don
re bothering to lie, you didn
s, that Violet, she
s letting you enter.  A thousand Galleons prize money, eh?  And you don


t put my name in that goblet!" said Harry, starting to feel angry.
"Yeah, okay," said Ron, in exactly the same sceptical tone as Cedric.  "Only you said this morning you
ve seen you.. . . I


re doing a really good impression of it," Harry snapped.
"Yeah?" said Ron, and there was no trace of a grin, forced or otherwise, on his face now.  "You want to get to bed, Harry.  I expect you

He wrenched the hangings shut around his four-poster, leaving Harry standing there by the door, staring at the dark red velvet curtains, now hiding one of the few people he had been sure would believe him.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN - THE WEIGHING OF THE WANDS

		When Harry woke up on Sunday morning, it took him a moment to remember why he felt so miserable and worried.  Then the memory of the previous night rolled over him.  He sat up and ripped back the curtains of his own four-poster, intending to talk to Ron, to force Ron to believe him - only to find that Ron's bed was empty; he had obviously gone down to breakfast.
		Harry dressed and went down the spiral staircase into the common room. The moment he appeared, the people who had already finished breakfast broke into applause again.  The prospect of going down into the Great Hall and facing the rest of the Gryffindors, all treating him like some sort of hero, was not inviting; it was that, however, or stay here and allow himself to be cornered by the Creevey brothers, who were both beckoning frantically to him to join them. He walked resolutely over to the portrait hole, pushed it open, climbed out of it, and found himself face-to-face with Hermione.
		
 she said, holding up a stack of toast, which she was carrying in a napkin.  


 said Harry gratefully.
They went downstairs, crossed the entrance hall quickly without looking in at the Great Hall, and were soon striding across the lawn toward the lake, where the Durmstrang ship was moored, reflected blackly in the water.  It was a chilly morning, and they kept moving, munching their toast, as Harry told Hermione exactly what had happened after he had left the Gryffindor table the night before.  To his immense relief, Hermione accepted his story without question.

t entered yourself," she said when he
The look on your face when Dumbledore read out your name!  But the question is, who did put it in?  Because Moody's right, Harry... I don't think any student could have done it. . . they'd never be able to fool the Goblet, or get over Dumbledore's -
Have you seen Ron?
Erm. . . yes. . . he was at breakfast,
Does he still think I entered myself?
Well. . . no, I don't think so . . . not really,
What's that supposed to mean, 'not really'?
Oh Harry, isn't it obvious?
He's jealous!
Jealous?
Jealous of what?  He wants to make a prat of himself in front of the whole school, does he?
Look,
it's always you who gets all the attention, you know it is.  I know it's not your fault,
I know you don't ask for it.. . but - well - you know, Ron's got all those brothers to compete against at home, and you're his best friend, and you're really famous - he's always shunted to one side whenever people see you, and he puts up with it, and he never mentions it, but I suppose this is just one time too many. . .

 said Harry bitterly.  
ll swap any time he wants.  Tell him from me he


m not teiling him anything," Hermione said shortly.  "Tell him yourself.  It


m not running around after him trying to make him grow up!"  Harry said, so loudly that several owls in a nearby tree took flight in alarm.  "Maybe he
m not enjoying myself once I


s not funny," said Hermione quietly. "That
  She looked extremely anxious.  
ve been thinking - you know what we
t you? Straight away, the moment we get back to the castle?"
"Yeah, give Ron a good kick up the -"
"Write to Sirius.  You
s happened.  He asked you to keep him posted on everything that
s almost as if he expected something like this to happen.  I brought some parchment and a quill out with me -"
"Come off it," said Harry, looking around to check that they couldn
He came back to the country just because my scar twinged. He'll probably come bursting right into the castle if I tell him someone's entered me in the Triwizard Tournament -
He'd want you to tell him,
He's going to find out anyway.
How?
Harry, this isn't going to be kept quiet,
This tournament's famous, and you're famous.  I'll be really surprised if there isn't anything in the Daily Prophet about you competing. . . . You're already in half the books about You-Know-Who, you know.. . and Sirius would rather hear it from you, I know he would.
Okay, okay, I'll write to him,
Whose owl am I going to use?
He told me not to use Hedwig again.
Ask Ron if you can borrow -
I'm not asking Ron for anything,
Well, borrow one of the school owls, then, anyone can use them,
s happening at Hogwarts, so here goes - I don
ve heard, but the Triwizard Tournament
t who put my name in the Goblet of Fire, because I didn
t think how to translate this into words, so he simply dipped his quill back into the ink bottle and wrote,
		Hope you
Finished,
I can't use you,
I've got to use one of these.
First Ron, then you,
This isn't my fault.
s glory; a feeling exacerbated, perhaps, by the fact that Hufflepuff House very rarely got any glory, and that Cedric was one of the few who had ever given them any, having beaten Gryffindor once at Quidditch.  Ernie Macmillan and Justin FinchFletchley, with whom Harry normally got on very well, did not talk to him even though they were repotting Bouncing Bulbs at the same tray - though they did laugh rather unpleasantly when one of the Bouncing Bulbs wriggled free from Harry
t talking to Harry either.  Hermione sat between them, making very forced conversation, but though both answered her normally, they avoided making eye contact with each other.  Harry thought even Professor Sprout seemed distant with him - but then, she was Head of Hufflepuff House.
He would have been looking forward to seeing Hagrid under normal circumstances, but Care of Magical Creatures meant seeing the Slytherins too - the first time he would come face-to-face with them since becoming champion.
Predictably, Malfoy arrived at Hagrid
Ah, look, boys, it's the champion,
Got your autograph books?  Better get a signature now, because I doubt he's going to be around much longer. . . . Half the Triwizard champions have died.. . how long d'you reckon you're going to last, Potter?  Ten minutes into the first task's my bet.
s horror, Hagrid proceeded to explain that the reason the skrewts had been killing one another was an excess of pent-up energy, and that the solution would be for each student to fix a leash on a skrewt and take it for a short walk.  The only good thing about this plan was that it distracted Malfoy completely.
"Take this thing for a walk?"  he repeated in disgust, staring into one of the boxes.  "And where exactly are we supposed to fix the leash?  Around the sting, the blasting end, or the sucker?"
"Roun
 said Hagrid, demonstrating.  
 as an extra precaution, like.  Harry - you come here an
s real intention, however, was totalk to Harry away from the rest of the class. He waited until everyone else had set off with their skrewts, then turned to Harry and said, very seriously, "So - yer competin


 Harry corrected him.
Hagrid's beetle-black eyes looked very anxious under his wild eyebrows.



t do it, then?" said Harry, concealing with difficulty the rush of gratitude he felt at Hagrid
Course I do,
Yeh say it wasn' you, an' I believe yeh - an' Dumbledore believes yer, an' all.
Wish I knew who did do it,
Look like they're havin' fun, don' they?
t; every now and then, with an alarming bang, one of the skrewts
Ah, I don' know, Harry,
School champion. . . everythin' seems ter happen ter you, doesn' it?
t answer. Yes, everything did seem to happen to him. . . that was more or less what Hermione had said as they had walked around the lake, and that was the reason, according to her, that Ron was no longer talking to him.

The next few days were some of Harry
s behavior if he could just have had Ron back as a friend, but he wasn
t want to.  Nevertheless, it was lonely with dislike pouring in on him from all sides.
He could understand the Hufflepuffs
t like it; they had their own champion to support.  He expected nothing less than vicious insults from the Slytherins - he was highly unpopular there and always had been, because he had helped Gryffindor beat them so often, both at Quidditch and in the Inter-House Championship.  But he had hoped the Ravenclaws might have found it in their hearts to support him as much as Cedric.  He was wrong, however.  Most Ravenclaws seemed to think that he had been desperate to earn himself a bit more fame by tricking the goblet into accepting his name.
Then there was the fact that Cedric looked the part of a champion so much more than he did.  Exceptionally handsome, with his straight nose, dark hair, and gray eyes, it was hard to say who was receiving more admiration these days, Cedric or Viktor Krum.  Harry actually saw the same sixth-year girls who had been so keen to get Krum
s class that he was given extra homework - the only person to get any, apart from Neville.
"It
 Hermione tried to reassure him as they left Flitwick's class - she had been making objects zoom across the room to her all lesson, as though she were some sort of weird magnet for board dusters, wastepaper baskets, and lunascopes.  
t concentrating properly -"
"Wonder why that was," said Harry darkly as Cedric Diggory walked past, surrounded by a large group of simpering girls, all of whom looked at Harry as though he were a particularly large Blast-Ended Skrewt.  "Still - never mind, eh?  Double Potions to look forward to this afternoon. . ."
Double Potions was always a horrible experience, but these days it was nothing short of torture.  Being shut in a dungeon for an hour and a half with Snape and the Slytherins, all of whom seemed determined to punish Harry as much as possible for daring to become school champion, was about the most unpleasant thing Harry could imagine.  He had already struggled through one Friday
ignore them, ignore them, ignore them
t see why today should be any better.
When he and Hermione arrived at Snape
Like them, Potter?
And this isn't all they do - look!
Oh very funny,
really witty.
t laughing, but he wasn
Want one, Granger?
I've got loads. But don't touch my hand, now.  I've just washed it, you see; don't want a Mudblood sliming it up.
d thought what he was doing.  People all around them scrambled out of the way, backing down the corridor.
"Harry!" Hermione said warningly.
"Go on, then, Potter," Malfoy said quietly, drawing out his own wand. "Moody
ve got the guts -"
For a split second, they looked into each other
Funnunculus!
Densaugeo!
s hit Goyle in the face, and Malfoy
Hermione!
s hand away from her face.  It wasn
s front teeth - already larger than average - were now growing at an alarming rate; she was looking more and more like a beaver as her teeth elongated, past her bottom lip, toward her chin - panic-stricken, she felt them and let out a terrified cry.
		"And what is all this noise about?" said a soft, deadly voice.
		Snape had arrived.  The Slytherins clamored to give their explanations; Snape pointed a long yellow finger at Malfoy and said, "Explain."
		"Potter attacked me, sir -"
		"We attacked each other at the same time!"  Harry shouted.
		"- and he hit Goyle - look -"
		Snape examined Goyle, whose face now resembled something that would have been at home in a book on poisonous fungi.
		"Hospital wing, Goyle," Snape said calmly.
		"Malfoy got Hermione!" Ron said. "Look!"
He forced Hermione to show Snape her teeth - she was doing her best to hide them with her hands, though this was difficult as they had now grown down past her collar.  Pansy Parkinson and the other Slytherin girls were doubled up with silent giggles, pointing at Hermione from behind Snape
I see no difference.
Let's see,
Fifty points from Gryffindor and a detention each for Potter and Weasley.  Now get inside, or it'll be a week's worth of detentions.
s ears were ringing.  The injustice of it made him want to curse Snape into a thousand slimy pieces.  He passed Snape, walked with Ron to the back of the dungeon, and slammed his bag down onto the table.  Ron was shaking with anger too - for a moment, it felt as though everything was back to normal between them, but then Ron turned and sat down with Dean and Seamus instead, leaving Harry alone at his table.  On the other side of the dungeon, Malfoy turned his back on Snape and pressed his badge, smirking. POTTER STINKS flashed once more across the room.
Harry sat there staring at Snape as the lesson began, picturing horrific things happening to him. . . . If only he knew how to do the Cruciatus Curse. . . he
Antidotes!
You should all have prepared your recipes now.  I want you to brew them carefully, and then, we will be selecting someone on whom to test one. . .
s eyes met Harry
s greasy head - And then a knock on the dungeon door burst in on Harry
s desk at the front of the room.
"Yes?" said Snape curtly.
"Please, sir, I
  Snape stared down his hooked nose at Colin, whose smile faded from his eager face.

 said Snape coldly.  

Colin went pink.

 he said nervously.  

Harry would have given anything he owned to have stopped Colin saying those last few words.  He chanced half a glance at Ron, but Ron was staring determinedly at the ceiling.

 Snape snapped.  


s got to take his things with him," squeaked Cohn.  "All the champions..."
"Very well!" said Snape.  "Potter - take your bag and get out of my sight!"
 Harry swung his bag over his shoulder, got up, and headed for the door.  As he walked through the Slytherin desks, POTTER STINKS flashed at him from every direction.
"It
t it, Harry?" said Colin, starting to speak the moment Harry had closed the dungeon door behind him.  "Isn


 said Harry heavily as they set off toward the steps into the entrance hall.  




 said Harry dully.  


 said Colin when they had reached the right room.  Harry knocked on the door and entered.
He was in a fairly small classroom; most of the desks had been pushed away to the back of the room, leaving a large space in the middle; three of them, however, had been placed end-to-end in front of the blackboard and covered with a long length of velvet.  Five chairs had been set behind the velvet-covered desks, and Ludo Bagman was sitting in one of them, talking to a witch Harry had never seen before, who was wearing magenta robes.
Viktor Krum was standing moodily in a corner as usual and not talking to anybody. Cedric and Fheur were in conversation.  Fheur looked a good deal happier than Harry had seen her so far; she kept throwing back her head so that her long silvery hair caught the light.  A paunchy man, holding a large black camera that was smoking slightly, was watching Fleur out of the corner of his eye.
Bagman suddenly spotted Harry, got up quickly, and bounded forward.
 
s just the wand weighing ceremony, the rest of the judges will be here in a moment -"
"Wand weighing?" Harry repeated nervously.
"We have to check that your wands are fully functional, no problems, you know, as they
 said Bagman.  
s upstairs now with Dumbledore.  And then there
 he added, gesturing toward the witch in magenta robes.  
s doing a small piece on the tournament for the Daily Prophet. .. ."
"Maybe not that small, Ludo," said Rita Skeeter, her eyes on Harry.
Her hair was set in elaborate and curiously rigid curls that contrasted oddly with her heavy-jawed face.  She wore jeweled spectacles.  The thick fingers clutching her crocodile-skin handbag ended in two-inch nails, painted crimson.
"I wonder if I could have a little word with Harry before we start?"  she said to Bagman, but still gazing fixedly at Harry.  "The youngest champion, you know. . . to add a bit of color?"
"Certainly!" cried Bagman. "That is - if Harry has no objection?"
"Er -" said Harry.
"Lovely," said Rita Skeeter, and in a second, her scarlet-taloned fingers had Harry
We don't want to be in there with all that noise,
Let's see . . . ah, yes, this is nice and cozy.
Come along, dear - that's right - lovely,
Let's see now. .
You won't mind, Harry, if I use a Quick-Quotes Quill?  It leaves me free to talk to you normally. ..
A what?
s smile widened.  Harry counted three gold teeth.  She reached again into her crocodile bag and drew out a long acid-green quill and a roll of parchment, which she stretched out between them on a crate of Mrs. Skower
Testing. . . my name is Rita Skeeter, Daily Prophet reporter.
s savage quill has punctured many inflated reputations - 

"Lovely," said Rita Skeeter, yet again, and she ripped the top piece of parchment off, crumpled it up, and stuffed it into her handbag.  Now she leaned toward Harry and said, "So, Harry... what made you decide to enter the Triwizard Tournament?"
"Er -" said Harry again, but he was distracted by the quill.  Even though he wasn
Ignore the quill, Harry,
Now -- why did you decide to enter the tournament, Harry?
I didn't,
I don't know how my name got into the Goblet of Fire.  I didn't put it in there.
Come now, Harry, there's no need to be scared of getting into trouble.  We all know you shouldn't really have entered at all.  But don't worry about that.  Our readers hove a rebel.
But I didn't enter,
I don't know who -
How do you feel about the tasks ahead?
Excited?  Nervous?
I haven't really thought. . . yeah, nervous, I suppose,
Champions have died in the past, haven't they?
Have you thought about that at all?
Well. . . they say it's going to be a lot safer this year,
Of course, you've looked death in the face before, haven't you?
How would you say that's affected you?
Er,
Do you think that the trauma in your past might have made you keen to prove yourself? To live up to your name?  Do you think that perhaps you were tempted to enter the Triwizard Tournament because - 
I didn't enter,
Can you remember your parents at all?
No,
How do you think they'd feel if they knew you were competing in the Triwizard Tournament?  Proud?  Worried?  Angry?
I have NOT got tears in my eyes!
Dumbledore!
s clawed fingers were hastily snapping shut the clasp of her crocodile-skin bag.  "How are you?" she said, standing up and holding out one of her large, mannish hands to Dumbledore.  "I hope you saw my piece over the summer about the International Confederation of Wizards


 said Dumbledore, his eyes twinkling. 

Rita Skeeter didn't look remotely abashed.



 said Dumbledore, with a courteous bow and a smile, 
m afraid we will have to discuss the matter later.  The Weighing of the Wands is about to start, and it cannot take place if one of our champions is hidden in a broom cupboard."
Very glad to get away from Rita Skeeter, Harry hurried back into the room.  The other champions were now sitting in chairs near the door, and he sat down quickly next to Cedric, hooking up at the velvet-covered table, where four of the five judges were now sitting - Professor Karkaroff, Madame Maxime, Mr. Crouch, and Ludo Bagman.  Rita Skeeter settled herself down in a corner; Harry saw her slip the parchment out of her bag again, spread it on her knee, suck the end of the Quick-Quotes Quill, and place it once more on the parchment.
"May I introduce Mr. Ollivander?"  said Dumbledore, taking his place at the judges
He will be checking your wands to ensure that they are in good condition before the tournament.
Mademoiselle Delacour, could we have you first, please?
Hmm...
Yes,
nine and a half inches. . . inflexible.. rosewood.. . and containing. . . dear me. . .
An 'air from ze 'ead of a veela,
One of my grandmuzzer's.
t speaking to him.
"Yes," said Mr. Ollivander, "yes, I

Mr. Ollivander ran his fingers along the wand, apparently checking for scratches or bumps; then he muttered, 
  and a bunch of flowers burst from the wand tip.

s in fine working order," said Mr. Ollivander, scooping up the flowers and handing them to Fleur with her wand.  "Mr. Diggory, you next."
Fleur glided back to her seat, smiling at Cedric as he passed her. 
"Ah, now, this is one of mine, isn
 said Mr. Ollivander, with much more enthusiasm, as Cedric handed over his wand.  
s in fine condition...You treat it regularly?"
"Polished it last night," said Cedric, grinning.
Harry hooked down at his own wand.  He could see finger marks all over it.  He gathered a fistful of robe from his knee and tried to rub it clean surreptitiously.  Several gold sparks shot out of the end of it.  Fleur Delacour gave him a very patronizing look, and he desisted.
Mr. Ollivander sent a stream of silver smoke rings across the room from the tip of Cedric
Mr. Krum, if you please.
Hmm,
this is a Gregorovitch creation, unless I'm much mistaken?  A fine wand-maker, though the styling is never quite what I. . . however. .
Yes.. . hornbeam and dragon heartstring?
Rather thicker than one usually sees. . . quite rigid. . . ten and a quarter inches. . . Avis!
Good,
Which leaves. . . Mr. Potter.
Aaaah, yes,
Yes, yes, yes. How well I remember.
s shop with Hagrid to buy a wand.  Mr. Ollivander had taken his measurements and then started handing him wands to try.  Harry had waved what felt like every wand in the shop, until at last he had found the one that suited him - this one, which was made of holly, eleven inches long, and contained a single feather from the tail of a phoenix.  Mr. Ollivander had been very surprised that Harry had been so compatible with this wand.  "Curious," he had said, "curious," and not until Harry asked what was curious had Mr. Olhivander explained that the phoenix feather in Harry
s.
Harry had never shared this piece of information with anybody.  He was very fond of his wand, and as far as he was concerned its relation to Voldemort
t help - rather as he couldn
t about to tell the room about it.  He had a funny feeling Rita Skeeter
s wand than anyone else
Thank you all,
 table. "You may go back to your lessons now - or perhaps it would be quicker just to go down to dinner, as they are about to end -"
Feeling that at last something had gone right today, Harry got up to leave, but the man with the black camera jumped up and cleared his throat.
"Photos, Dumbledore, photos!"  cried Bagman excitedly.  "All the judges and champions, what do you think, Rita?"
"Er - yes, let
 said Rita Skeeter, whose eyes were upon Harry again. 

The photographs took a long time.  Madame Maxime cast everyone else into shadow wherever she stood, and the photographer couldn't stand far enough back to get her into the frame; eventually she had to sit while everyone else stood around her.  Karkaroff kept twirling his goatee around his finger to give it an extra curl; Krum, whom Harry would have thought would have been used to this sort of thing, skulked, half-hidden, at the back of the group.  The photographer seemed keenest to get Fleur at the front, but Rita Skeeter kept hurrying forward and dragging Harry into greater prominence.  Then she insisted on separate shots of all the champions.  At last, they were free to go.
Harry went down to dinner.  Hermione wasn't there - he supposed she was still in the hospital wing having her teeth fixed.  He ate alone at the end of the table, then returned to Gryffindor Tower, thinking of all the extra work on Summoning Charms that he had to do.  Up in the dormitory, he came across Ron.

ve had an owl," said Ron brusquely the moment he walked in.  He was pointing at Harry
Oh - right,
And we've got to do our detentions tomorrow night, Snape's dungeon,
t sure whether he wanted to talk to him or hit him, both seemed quite appealing - but the lure of Sirius
t say everything I would like to in a letter, it
clock in the morning on the 22nd ofNovember?
	I know better than anyone that you can look after yourself and while you
t think anyone will be able to hurt you.  However, someone seems to be having a good try. Entering you in that tournament would have been very risky, especially right under Dumbkdore
t see how Sirius was going to make him feel any better about having to perform an unknown piece of difficult and dangerous magic in front of hundreds of people, but the mere sight of a friendly face would be something at the moment.  Harry wrote back to Sirius saying that he would be beside the common room fire at the time Sirius had suggested; and he and Hermione spent a long time going over plans for forcing any stragglers out of the common room on the night in question.  If the worst came to the worst, they were going to drop a bag of Dungbombs, but they hoped they wouldn
t been mentioned at all.
The article had appeared ten days ago, and Harry still got a sick, burning feeling of shame in his stomach every time he thought about it.  Rita Skeeter had reported him saying an awful lot of things that he couldn
d be very proud of me if they could see me now. . . . Yes, sometimes at night I still cry about them, I
re watching over me. . .

 But Rita Skeeter had gone even further than transforming his "er
 into long, sickly sentences:  She had interviewed other people about him too.

Harry has at last found love at Hogwarts. His close friend, Colin Creevey, says that Harry is rarely seen out of the company of one Hermione Granger, a stunningly pretty Muggle-born girl who, like Harry, is one of the top students in the school.

From the moment the article had appeared, Harry had had to endure people --Slytherins, mainly -- quoting it at him as he passed and making sneering comments.







s right!"  Harry found himself shouting as he wheeled around in the corridor, having had just about enough.  "I
m just off to do a bit more. . .
"No - it was just - you dropped your quill."
It was Cho.  Harry felt the color rising in his face.
"Oh - right - sorry," he muttered, taking the quill back.
"Er. . . good luck on Tuesday," she said.  "I really hope you do well." 
Which left Harry feeling extremely stupid.
Hermione had come in for her fair share of unpleasantness too, but she hadn
Stunningly pretty? Her?
s article had appeared.  "What was she judging against - a chipmunk?"
"Ignore it," Hermione said in a dignified voice, holding her head in the air and stalking past the sniggering Slytherin girls as though she couldn
Just ignore it, Harry.
t ignore it.  Ron hadn
s detentions.  Harry had half hoped they would make things up during the two hours they were forced to pickle rats
s dungeon, but that had been the day Rita
s belief that Harry was really enjoying all the attention.
Hermione was furious with the pair of them; she went from one to the other, trying to force them to talk to each other, but Harry was adamant:  He would talk to Ron again only if Ron admitted that Harry hadn
I didn't start this,
It's his problem.
You miss him!
And I know he misses you -
Miss him?
I don't miss him. . .
But this was a downright lie.  Harry liked Hermione very much, but she just wasn't the same as Ron.  There was much hess laughter and a lot more hanging around in the library when Hermione was your best friend.  Harry still hadn't mastered Summoning Charms, he seemed to have developed something of a block about them, and Hermione insisted that learning the theory would help.  They consequently spent a lot of time poring over books during their lunchtimes.
Viktor Krum was in the library an awful lot too, and Harry wondered what he was up to.  Was he studying, or was he looking for things to help him through the first task?  Hermione often complained about Krum being there - not that he ever bothered them - but because groups of giggling girls often turned up to spy on him from behind bookshelves, and Hermione found the noise distracting.

s not even good-looking!"  she muttered angrily, glaring at Krum
They only like him because he's famous!  They wouldn't look twice at him if he couldn't do that WonkyFaint thing -
Wronski Feint,
s expression if he could have heard Hermione talking about Wonky-Faints.

It is a strange thing, but when you are dreading something, and would give anything to slow down time, it has a disobliging habit of speeding up.  The days until the first task seemed to slip by as though someone had fixed the clocks to work at double speed.  Harry
t need much persuasion.
"What about Ron, though?"  he said.  "Don


  Hermione went slightly pink.  


 said Harry flatly.



ll come, but I
m wearing my Invisibility Cloak."
"Oh all right then. . ."  Hermione snapped, "but I hate talking to you in that cloak, I never know if I

So Harry put on his Invisibility Cloak in the dormitory, went back downstairs, and together he and Hermione set off for Hogsmeade.
Harry felt wonderfully free under the cloak; he watched other students walking past them as they entered the village, most of them sporting Support Cedric Diggory!  badges, but no horrible remarks came his way for a change, and nobody was quoting that stupid article.

 said Hermione grumpily as they came out of Honeydukes Sweetshop later, eating large cream-filled chocolates.  
m talking to myself."
"Don


s going to bother you here."
"Oh yeah?" said Harry. "Look behind you."
Rita Skeeter and her photographer friend had just emerged from the Three Broomsticks pub.  Talking in low voices, they passed right by Hermione without hooking at her.  Harry backed into the wall of Honeydukes to stop Rita Skeeter from hitting him with her crocodile-skin handbag.  When they were gone, Harry said, "She
s coming to watch the first task."
As he said it, his stomach flooded with a wave of molten panic.  He didn
t discussed what was coming in the first task much; he had the feeling she didn
She's gone,
Why don't we go and have a butterbeer in the Three Broomsticks, it's a bit cold, isn't it?  You don't have to talk to Ron!
I look like such an idiot, sitting here on my own,
Lucky I brought something to do.
s names at the top of the very short list.  It seemed a long time ago that they had sat making up those predictions together, and Hermione had turned up and appointed them secretary and treasurer.
"You know, maybe I should try and get some of the villagers involved in S.P.E.W.," Hermione said thoughtfully, looking around the pub.
"Yeah, right," said Harry.  He took a swig of butterbeer under his cloak.  "Hermione, when are you going to give up on this spew stuff?"
"When house-elves have decent wages and working conditions!"  she hissed back. "You know, I
s time for more direct action.  I wonder how you get into the school kitchens?"
"No idea, ask Fred and George," said Harry.
Hermione lapsed into thoughtful silence, while Harry drank his butterbeer, watching the people in the pub.  All of them looked cheerful and relaxed.  Ernie Macmillan and Hannah Abbot were swapping Chocolate Frog cards at a nearby table; both of them sporting Support Cedric Diggory! badges on their cloaks.  Right over by the door he saw Cho and a large group of her Ravenclaw friends.  She wasn
t he have given to be one of these peophe, sitting around laughing and talking, with nothing to worry about but homework?  He imagined how it would have felt to be here if his name hadn
t be wearing the Invisibility Cloak, for one thing.  Ron would be sitting with him.  The three of them would probably be happily imagining what deadly dangerous task the school champions would be facing on Tuesday.  He
Look, it's Hagrid!
s enormous shaggy head - he had mercifully abandoned his bunches - emerged over the crowd.  Harry wondered why he hadn
t seem to think much of this; she was looking askance at Moody as she collected glasses from tables around them. Perhaps she thought it was an insult to her mulled mead, but Harry knew better.  Moody had told them all during their last Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson that he preferred to prepare his own food and drink at all times, as it was so easy for Dark wizards to poison an unattended cup.
As Harry watched, he saw Hagrid and Moody get up to leave.  He waved, then remembered that Hagrid couldn
s table.
"All right, Hermione?" said Hagrid loudly.
"Hello," said Hermione, smiling back.
Moody limped around the table and bent down; Harry thought he was reading the S.P.E.W. notebook, until he muttered, "Nice cloak, Potter."
Harry stared at him in amazement.  The large chunk missing from Moody
 distance.  Moody grinned.
"Can your eye - I mean, can you - ?"
"Yeah, it can see through Invisibility Cloaks," Moody said quietly. "And it

Hagrid was beaming down at Harry too. Harry knew Hagrid couldn't see him, but Moody had obviously told Hagrid he was there.  Hagrid now bent down on the pretext of reading the S.P.E.W. notebook as well, and said in a whisper so low that only Harry could hear it, 

Straightening up, Hagrid said loudly, 
 winked, and departed.  Moody followed him.

 Harry said, very surprised.

 said Hermione, looking startled.  
s up to?  I don
  She looked nervously around and hissed, 

It was true that going down to Hagrid's at midnight would mean cutting his meeting with Sirius very fine indeed; Hermione suggested sending Hedwig down to Hagrid's to tell him he couldn't go - always assuming she would consent to take the note, of course - Harry, however, thought it better just to be quick at whatever Hagrid wanted him for. He was very curious to know what this might be; Hagrid had never asked Harry to visit him so late at night.
At half past eleven that evening, Harry, who had pretended to go up to bed early, pulled the Invisibility Cloak back over himself and crept back downstairs through the common room. Quite a few people were still in there.  The Creevey brothers had managed to get hold of a stack of Support Cedric Diggory!  badges and were trying to bewitch them to make them say Support Harry Potter! instead.  So far, however, all they had managed to do was get the badges stuck on POTTER STINKS.  Harry crept past them to the portrait hole and waited for a minute or so, keeping an eye on his watch.  Then Hermione opened the Fat Lady for him from outside as they had planned.  He slipped past her with a whispered 
  and set off through the castle.
The grounds were very dark.  Harry walked down the lawn toward the lights shining in Hagrid's cabin.  The inside of the enormous Beauxbatons carriage was also lit up; Harry could hear Madame Maxime talking inside it as he knocked on Hagrid's front door.

  Hagrid whispered, opening the door and looking around.

 said Harry, slipping inside the cabin and pulling the cloak down off his head. 
s up?"
"Got summat ter show yeh," said Hagrid.
There was an air of enormous excitement about Hagrid.  He was wearing a flower that resembled an oversized artichoke in his buttonhole.  It looked as though he had abandoned the use of axle grease, but he had certainly attempted to comb his hair - Harry could see the comb
What're you showing me?
Come with me, keep quiet, an' keep yerself covered with that cloak,
We won' take Fang, he won' like it. . .

t stay long. . . . I
clock -"
But Hagrid wasn
Hagrid, what - ?
Shhh!
Ah, 'Agrid . . . it is time?
Bong-sewer,
s giant winged horses, with Harry, totally bewildered, running to keep up with them. Had Hagrid wanted to show him Madame Maxime?  He could see her any old time he wanted.. . she wasn
Wair is it you are taking me, 'Agrid?
Yeh'll enjoy this,
worth seein', trust me. On'y - don' go tellin' anyone I showed yeh, right?  Yeh're not s'posed ter know.
Of course not,
t get there soon, he was going to turn around, go straight back to the castle, and leave Hagrid to enjoy his moonlit stroll with Madame Maxime.
But then - when they had walked so far around the perimeter of the forest that the castle and the lake were out of sight - Harry heard something. Men were shouting up ahead. . . then came a deafening, earsplitting roar. . .
Hagrid led Madame Maxime around a clump of trees and came to a halt.  Harry hurried up alongside them - for a split second, he thought he was seeing bonfires, and men darting around them - and then his mouth fell open.
Dragons.
Four fully grown, enormous, vicious-looking dragons were rearing onto their hind legs inside an enclosure fenced with thick planks of wood, roaring and snorting - torrents of fire were shooting into the dark sky from their open, fanged mouths, fifty feet above the ground on their outstretched necks.  There was a silvery-blue one with long, pointed horns, snapping and snarling at the wizards on the ground; a smooth-scaled green one, which was writhing and stamping with all its might; a red one with an odd fringe of fine gold spikes around its face, which was shooting mushroom-shaped fire clouds into the air; and a gigantic black one, more lizard-hike than the others, which was nearest to them.
At least thirty wizards, seven or eight to each dragon, were attempting to control them, pulling on the chains connected to heavy leather straps around their necks and legs. Mesmerized, Harry looked up, high above him, and saw the eyes of the black dragon, with vertical pupils like a cat
t tell which. . . . It was making a horrible noise, a yowling, screeching scream.
"Keep back there, Hagrid!"  yelled a wizard near the fence, straining on the chain he was holding.  "They can shoot fire at a range of twenty feet, you know!  I


n
  said Hagrid softly.

s no good!" yelled another wizard.  "Stunning Spells, on the count of three!"
Harry saw each of the dragon keepers pull out his wand.
"Stupefy!"  they shouted in unison, and the Stunning Spells shot into the darkness like fiery rockets, bursting in showers of stars on the dragons
Wan' a closer look?
All right, Hagrid?
They should be okay now - we put them out with a Sleeping Draft on the way here, thought it might be better for them to wake up in the dark and the quiet - but, like you saw, they weren't happy, not happy at all -
What breeds you got here, Charlie?
This is a Hungarian Horntail,
There's a Common Welsh Green over there, the smaller one -- a Swedish Short-Snout, that blue-gray -- and a Chinese Fireball, that's the red.
I didn't know you were bringing her, Hagrid,
The champions aren't supposed to know what's coming - she's bound to tell her student, isn't she?
Jus' thought she'd like ter see 'em,
Really romantic date, Hagrid,
Four. . .
so it's one fer each o' the champions, is it?  What've they gotta do - fight 'em?
Just get past them, I think,
We'll be on hand if it gets nasty, Extinguishing Spells at the ready.  They wanted nesting mothers, I don't know why. . . but I tell you this, I don't envy the one who gets the Horntail.  Vicious thing.  Its back end's as dangerous as its front, look.
s tail, and Harry saw long, bronze-colored spikes protruding along it every few inches.
Five of Charlie
s side.  Hagrid let out a moan of longing.
"I
 said Charlie sternly.  Then he said, 
s Harry?"
"Fine," said Hagrid. He was still gazing at the eggs.
"Just hope he
s faced this lot," said Charlie grimly, looking out over the dragons
I didn't dare tell Mum what he's got to do for the first task; she's already having kittens about him. . . .
s anxious voice. "How could they let him enter that tournament, he
  She was in floods after that Daily Prophet article about him.  

Harry had had enough.  Trusting to the fact that Hagrid wouldn't miss him, with the attractions of four dragons and Madame Maxime to occupy him, he turned silently and began to walk away, back to the castle.
He didn't know whether he was glad he'd seen what was coming or not.  Perhaps this way was better.  The first shock was over now.  Maybe if he'd seen the dragons for the first time on Tuesday, he would have passed out cold in front of the whole school. . . but maybe he would anyway. .. . He was going to be armed with his wand - which, just now, felt like nothing more than a narrow strip of wood -- against a fifty-foot-high, scaly, spike-ridden, fire-breathing dragon.  And he had to get past it.  With everyone watching.  How?
Harry sped up, skirting the edge of the forest; he had just under fifteen minutes to get back to the fireside and talk to Sirius, and he couldn't remember, ever, wanting to talk to someone more than he did right now -- when, without warning, he ran into something very solid.
Harry fell backward, his glasses askew, clutching the cloak around him.  A voice nearby said, 
s there?"
Harry hastily checked that the cloak was covering him and hay very still, staring up at the dark outline of the wizard he had hit.  He recognized the goatee. . . it was Karkaroff.
"Who
  said Karkaroff again, very suspiciously, looking around in the darkness.  Harry remained still and silent.  After a minute or so, Karkaroff seemed to decide that he had hit some sort of animal; he was looking around at waist height, as though expecting to see a dog.  Then he crept back under the cover of the trees and started to edge forward toward the place where the dragons were.
Very slowly and very carefully, Harry got to his feet and set off again as fast as he could without making too much noise, hurrying through the darkness back toward Hogwarts.
He had no doubt whatsoever what Karkaroff was up to.  He had sneaked off his ship to try and find out what the first task was going to be.  He might even have spotted Hagrid and Madame Maxime heading off around the forest together - they were hardly difficult to spot at a distance. . . and now all Karkaroff had to do was follow the sound of voices, and he, like Madame Maxime, would know what was in store for the champions.
By the looks of it, the only champion who would be facing the unknown on Tuesday was Cedric.
Harry reached the castle, slipped in through the front doors, and began to climb the marble stairs; he was very out of breath, but he didn't dare slow down. . . . He had less than five minutes to get up to the fire.

 he gasped at the Fat Lady, who was snoozing in her frame in front of the portrait hole.

 she muttered sleepily, without opening her eyes, and the picture swung forward to admit him.  Harry climbed inside.  The common room was deserted, and, judging by the fact that it smelled quite normal, Hermione had not needed to set off any Dungbombs to ensure that he and Sirius got privacy.
Harry pulled off the Invisibility Cloak and threw himself into an armchair in front of the fire.  The room was in semidarkness; the flames were the only source of light.  Nearby, on a table, the Support Cedric Diggory! badges the Creeveys had been trying to improve were glinting in the firelight.  They now read POTTER REALLY STINKS.  Harry looked back into the flames, and jumped.  
Sirius's head was sitting in the fire.  If Harry hadn't seen Mr. Diggory do exactly this back in the Weasleys' kitchen, it would have scared him out of his wits.  Instead, his face breaking into the first smile he had worn for days, he scrambled out of his chair, crouched down by the hearth, and said, 
re you doing?"
Sirius looked different from Harry
s face had been gaunt and sunken, surrounded by a quantity of long, black, matted hair - but the hair was short and clean now, Sirius
 wedding.
"Never mind me, how are you?" said Sirius seriously.
"I
  For a second, Harry tried to say 
 - but he couldn't do it.  Before he could stop himself, he was talking more than he'd talked in days - about how no one believed he hadn't entered the tournament of his own free will, how Rita Skeeter had lied about him in the Daily Prophet, how he couldn't walk down a corridor without being sneered at - and about Ron, Ron not believing him, Ron's jealousy...

s just shown me what
s dragons, Sirius, and I
 he finished desperately.
Sirius looked at him, eyes full of concern, eyes that had not yet lost the look that Azkaban had given them - that deadened, haunted look  He had let Harry talk himself into silence without interruption, but now he said, 
ll get to that in a minute - I haven
ve broken into a wizarding house to use the fire, but they could be back at any time.  There are things I need to warn you about."
"What?"  said Harry, feeling his spirits slip a further few notches.. . . Surely there could be nothing worse than dragons coming?
"Karkaroff," said Sirius.  "Harry, he was a Death Eater.  You know what Death Eaters are, don




d bet everything that


  Harry said slowly - his brain seemed to be struggling to absorb yet another piece of shocking information.  


 said Sirius bitterly.  
d seen the error of his ways, and then he named names. . . he put a load of other people into Azkaban in his place. . . . He
s been teaching the Dark Arts to every student who passes through that school of his.  So watch out for the Durmstrang champion as well."
"Okay," said Harry slowly.  "But. . . are you saying Karkaroff put my name in the goblet?  Because if he did, he


s a good actor," said Sirius, "because he convinced the Ministry of Magic to set him free, didn
ve been keeping an eye on the Daily Prophet, Harry.."
"- you and the rest of the world," said Harry bitterly. 
"- and reading between the lines of that Skeeter woman
 Sirius said hastily, seeing Harry about to speak, 
t think so, somehow.  I think someone tried to stop him from getting to Hogwarts.  I think someone knew their job would be a lot more difficult with him around.  And no one
s heard intruders a bit too often.  But that doesn
t still spot the real thing.  Moody was the best Auror the Ministry ever had."
"So. . . what are you saying?"  said Harry slowly.  "Karkaroff

Sirius hesitated.

ve been nearing some very strange things," he said slowly.  "The Death Eaters seem to be a bit more active than usual lately.  They showed themselves at the Quidditch World Cup, didn
s gone missing?"
"Bertha Jorkins?" said Harry.
"Exactly. . . she disappeared in Albania, and that
t she?"
"Yeah, but. . . it
d have walked straight into Voldemort, is it?" said Harry.
"Listen, I knew Bertha Jorkins," said Sirius grimly.  "She was at Hogwarts when I was, a few years above your dad and me.  And she was an idiot.  Very nosy, but no brains, none at all.  It
d say she


  said Harry.  


t know," said Sirius slowly, "I just don
t strike me as the type who
t help thinking the tournament would be a very good way to attack you and make it hook like an accident."
"Looks hike a really good plan from where I
 said Harry grinning bleaky. 
ll just have to stand back and let the dragons do their stuff."
"Right - these dragons," said Sirius, speaking very quickly now.  "There
t be tempted to try a Stunning Spell - dragons are strong and too powerfully magical to be knocked out by a single Stunner, you need about half a dozen wizards at a time to overcome a dragon -"
"Yeah, I know, I just saw," said Harry.
"But you can do it alone," said Sirius.  "There is away, and a simple spell

But Harry held up a hand to silence him, his heart suddenly pounding as though it would burst.  He could hear footsteps coming down the spiral staircase behind him.

  he hissed at Sirius. 
s someone coming!"
Harry scrambled to his feet, hiding the fire - if someone saw Sirius
s whereabouts - 
Harry heard a tiny pop! in the fire behind him and knew Sirius had gone.  He watched the bottom of the spiral staircase.  Who had decided to go for a stroll at one o
Who were you talking to?
What's that got to do with you?
What are you doing down here at this time of night?
I just wondered where you -
Nothing.  I'm going back to bed.
Just thought you'd come nosing around, did you?
d walked in on, knew he hadn
t care - at this moment he hated everything about Ron, right down to the several inches of bare ankle showing beneath his pajama trousers.
"Sorry about that," said Ron, his face reddening with anger.  "Should
t want to be disturbed.  I

Harry seized one of the POTTER REALLY STINKS badges off the table and chucked it, as hard as he could, across the room.  It hit Ron on the forehead and bounced off.

 Harry said. 
re lucky.. . . That
t it?"
He strode across the room toward the stairs; he half expected Ron to stop him, he would even have liked Ron to throw a punch at him, but Ron just stood there in his too-small pajamas, and Harry, having stormed upstairs, lay awake in bed fuming for a long time afterward and didn
d finally got all his clothes on the right parts of his body, he hurried off to find Hermione, locating her at the Gryffindor table in the Great Hall, where she was eating breakfast with Ginny.  Feeling too queasy to eat, Harry waited until Hermione had swallowed her last spoonful of porridge, then dragged her out onto the grounds.  There, he told her all about the dragons, and about everything Sirius had said, while they took another long walk around the lake.
		Alarmed as she was by Sirius
Let's just try and keep you alive until Tuesday evening,
and then we can worry about Karkaroff.
Talon-clipping by charms. .. treating scale-rot. . .' This is no good, this is for nutters like Hagrid who want to keep them healthy. ..

 But Sirius said a simple one would do it.. .
"Let
 said Harry, throwing aside Men Who Love Dragons Too Much.
He returned to the table with a pile of spellbooks, set them down, and began to flick through each in turn, Hermione whispering nonstop at his elbow.

s the point of Switching it?  Unless you swapped its fangs for wine-gums or something that would make it less dangerous.. . . The trouble is, like that book said, not much is going to get through a dragon
d say Transfigure it, but something that big, you really haven
re supposed to put the spell on yourself?  Maybe to give yourself extra powers?  But they
t done any of those in class, I only know about them because I


 Harry said, through gritted teeth, 

But all that happened, when Hermione fell silent, was that Harry's brain filled with a sort of blank buzzing, which didn't seem to allow room for concentration.  He stared hopelessly down the index of Basic Hexes for the Busy and Vexed.  Instant scalping. . . but dragons had no hair. . . pepper breath.. . that would probably increase a dragon's firepower. . . horn tongue. . . just what he needed, to give it an extra weapon...

s back again, why can
  said Hermione irritably as Viktor Krum slouched in, cast a surly look over at the pair of them, and settled himself in a distant corner with a pile of books.  
ll go back to the common room. . . his fan club

And sure enough, as they left the library, a gang of girls tiptoed past them, one of them wearing a Bulgaria scarf tied around her waist.

Harry barely slept that night.  When he awoke on Monday morning, he seriously considered for the first time ever just running away from Hogwarts.  But as he looked around the Great Hall at breakfast time, and thought about what leaving the castle would mean, he knew he couldn't do it.  It was the only place he had ever been happy. . . well, he supposed he must have been happy with his parents too, but he couldn't remember that.
Somehow, the knowledge that he would rather be here and facing a dragon than back on Privet Drive with Dudley was good to know; it made him feel slightly calmer.  He finished his bacon with difficulty (his throat wasn't working too well), and as he and Hermione got up, he saw Cedric Diggory leaving the Hufflepuff table.
Cedric still didn't know about the dragons. . . the only champion who didn't, if Harry was right in thinking that Maxime and Karkaroff would have told Fleur and Krum....

ll see you in the greenhouses," Harry said, coming to his decision as he watched Cedric leaving the Hall.  "Go on, I


ll be late, the bell


ll catch you up, okay?"
By the time Harry reached the bottom of the marble staircase, Cedric was at the top. He was with a load of sixth-year friends.  Harry didn
s article at him every time he went near them.  He followed Cedric at a distance and saw that he was heading toward the Charms corridor.  This gave Harry an idea.  Pausing at a distance from them, he pulled out his wand, and took careful aim.
"Diffindo!"
Cedric
Don't bother,
Tell Flitwick I'm coming, go on. . .
This was exactly what Harry had been hoping for.  He slipped his wand back into his robes, waited until Cedric's friends had disappeared into their classroom, and hurried up the corridor, which was now empty of everyone but himself and Cedric.

 said Cedric, picking up a copy of A Guide to Advanced Transfiguration that was now splattered with ink.  


 said Harry, 


 said Cedric, looking up.

 said Harry, speaking quickly, in case Professor Flitwick came out to see where Cedric had got to.  
ve got four, one for each of us, and we

Cedric stared at him.  Harry saw some of the panic he'd been feeling since Saturday night flickering in Cedric's gray eyes.

 Cedric said in a hushed voice.

 said Harry. 
ve seen them."
"But how did you find out?  We
 

 said Harry quickly - he knew Hagrid would be in trouble if he told the truth.  
m not the only one who knows.  Fleur and Krum will know by now - Maxime and Karkaroff both saw the dragons too."
Cedric straightened up, his arms full of inky quills, parchment, and books, his ripped bag dangling off one shoulder.  He stared at Harry, and there was a puzzled, almost suspicious look in his eyes.
"Why are you telling me?" he asked.
Harry looked at him in disbelief.  He was sure Cedric wouldn
t have let his worst enemy face those monsters unprepared - well, perhaps Malfoy or Snape...
"It
t it?"  he said to Cedric.  "We all know now. . . we
t we?"
Cedric was still hooking at him in a slightly suspicious way when Harry heard a familiar clunking noise behind him.  He turned around and saw Mad-Eye Moody emerging from a nearby classroom.
"Come with me, Potter," he growled.  "Diggory, off you go."
Harry stared apprehensively at Moody.  Had he overheard them?
"Er - Professor, I


d found out about the dragons?  Would Moody go to Dumbledore and tell on Hagrid, or just turn Harry into a ferret?  Well, it might be easier to get past a dragon if he were a ferret, Harry thought dully, he
That was a very decent thing you just did, Potter,
t know what to say; this wasn
Sit down,
s day, the walls had been plastered with beaming, winking pictures of Professor Lockhart himself. When Lupin had lived here, you were more likely to come across a specimen of some fascinating new Dark creature he had procured for them to study in class.  Now, however, the office was full of a number of exceptionally odd objects that Harry supposed Moody had used in the days when he had been an Auror.
On his desk stood what looked hike a large, cracked, glass spinning top; Harry recognized it at once as a Sneakoscope, because he owned one himself, though it was much smaller than Moody
Like my Dark Detectors, do you?
What's that?
Secrecy Sensor.  Vibrates when it detects concealment and lies.. . no use here, of course, too much interference - students in every direction lying about why they haven't done their homework  Been humming ever since I got here.  I had to disable my Sneakoscope because it wouldn't stop whistling.  It's extra-sensitive, picks up stuff about a mile around.  Of course, it could be picking up more than kid stuff,
And what's the mirror for?
Oh that's my Foe-Glass.  See them out there, skulking around?  I'm not really in trouble until I see the whites of their eyes.  That's when I open my trunk.
s next question brought him sharply back to earth.
"So. . . found out about the dragons, have you?"
Harry hesitated.  He
t told Cedric, and he certainly wasn
It's all right,
Cheating's a traditional part of the Triwizard Tournament and always has been.
I didn't cheat,
It was - a sort of accident that I found out.
I wasn't accusing you, laddie.  I've been telling Dumbledore from the start, he can be as high-minded as he likes, but you can bet old Karkaroff and Maxime won't be.  They'll have told their champions everything they can.  They want to win.  They want to beat Dumbledore.  They'd like to prove he's only human.
So. . . got any ideas how you're going to get past your dragon yet?
No,
Well, I'm not going to tell you,
I don't show favoritism, me.  I'm just going to give you some good, general advice.  And the first bit is - play to your strengths.
I haven't got any,
Excuse me,
you've got strengths if I say you've got them.  Think now.  What are you best at?
Quidditch,
and a fat lot of help -
That's right,
You're a damn good flier from what I've heard.
Yeah, but.. .
I'm not allowed a broom, I've only got my wand...
My second piece of general advice,
is to use a nice, simple spell that will enable you to get what you need.
Come on, boy. . .
Put them together... it's not that difficult...
Hermione,
Hermione - I need you to help me.
What d'you think I've been trying to do, Harry?
Hermione, I need to learn how to do a Summoning Charm properly by tomorrow afternoon.
t have lunch, but headed for a free classroom, where Harry tried with all his might to make various objects fly across the room toward him.  He was still having problems.  The books and quills kept losing heart halfway across the room and dropping hike stones to the floor.
"Concentrate, Harry, concentrate. . . ."
"What d
m trying to do?"  said Harry angrily.  "A great big dragon keeps popping up in my head for some reason...Okay, try again. . . ."
He wanted to skip Divination to keep practicing, but Hermione refused point-blank to skive off Arithmancy, and there was no point in staying without her.  He therefore had to endure over an hour of Professor Trelawney, who spent half the lesson telling everyone that the position of Mars with relation to Saturn at that moment meant that people born in July were in great danger of sudden, violent deaths.
"Well, that
 said Harry loudly, his temper getting the better of him, 
s not drawn-out.  I don

Ron looked for a moment as though he was going to laugh; he certainly caught Harry's eye for the first time in days, but Harry was still feeling too resentful toward Ron to care.  He spent the rest of the lesson trying to attract small objects toward him under the table with his wand.  He managed to make a fly zoom straight into his hand, though he wasn't entirely sure that was his prowess at Summoning Charms - perhaps the fly was just stupid.
He forced down some dinner after Divination, then returned to the empty classroom with Hermione, using the Invisibility Cloak to avoid the teachers.  They kept practicing until past midnight.  They would have stayed longer, but Peeves turned up and, pretending to think that Harry wanted things thrown at him, started chucking chairs across the room.  Harry and Hermione left in a hurry before the noise attracted Filch, and went back to the Gryffindor common room, which was now mercifully empty.
At two o'clock in the morning, Harry stood near the fireplace, surrounded by heaps of objects:  books, quills, several upturned chairs, an old set of Gobstones, and Neville's toad, Trevor.  Only in the last hour had Harry really got the hang of the Summoning Charm.

s better, Harry, that
 Hermione said, looking exhausted but very pleased.

t manage a spell," Harry said, throwing a rune dictionary back to Hermione, so he could try again, "threaten me with a dragon.  Right..."  He raised his wand once more.  "Accio Dictionary!"
The heavy book soared out of Hermione
Harry, I really think you've got it!
Just as long as it works tomorrow,
The Firebolt's going to be much farther away than the stuff in here, it's going to be in the castle, and I'm going to be out there on the grounds. . . .
That doesn't matter,
 Just as long as you're concentrating really, really hard on it, it'll come.  Harry, we'd better get some sleep.. . you're going to need it.
 enclosure - though of course, they didn
We'll have a box of tissues ready, Potter
t just lose his head when they tried to lead him out to his dragon, and start trying to curse everyone in sight.  Time was behaving in a more peculiar fashion than ever, rushing past in great dollops, so that one moment he seemed to be sitting down in his first lesson, History of Magic, and the next, walking into lunch.. . and then (where had the morning gone?  the last of the dragon-free hours?), Professor McGonagall was hurrying over to him in the Great Hall.  Lots of people were watching.
"Potter, the champions have to come down onto the grounds now... . You have to get ready for your first task."
"Okay," said Harry, standing up, his fork falling onto his plate with a clatter.
"Good luck, Harry," Hermione whispered. "You


 said Harry in a voice that was most unlike his own.
He heft the Great Hall with Professor McGonagall.  She didn't seem herself either; in fact, she looked nearly as anxious as Hermione.  As she walked him down the stone steps and out into the cold November afternoon, she put her hand on his shoulder.

t panic," she said, "just keep a cool head. . . . We


 Harry heard himself say. 
m fine."
She was leading him toward the place where the dragons were, around the edge of the forest, but when they approached the clump of trees behind which the enclosure would be clearly visible, Harry saw that a tent had been erected, its entrance facing them, screening the dragons from view.
"You
 said Professor McGonagall, in a rather shaky sort of voice, 
ll be telling you the - the procedure. . . . Good luck."
"Thanks," said Harry, in a flat, distant voice.  She left him at the entrance of the tent. Harry went inside.
Fleur Delacour was sitting in a corner on a how wooden stool.  She didn
Harry!  Good-o!
Come in, come in, make yourself at home!
Well, now we're all here - time to fill you in!
When the audience has assembled, I'm going to be offering each of you this bag
from which you will each select a small model of the thing you are about to face!  There are different - er - varieties, you see.  And I have to tell you something else too.. . ah, yes... your task is to collect the golden egg!
s words, and then started pacing around the tent again; he looked slightly green.  Fleur Delacour and Krum hadn
Ladies first,
t even blink, just sat back down and stared at the ground.
Cedric put his hand into the bag, and out came the blueish-gray Swedish Short-Snout, the number one tied around its neck.  Knowing what was left, Harry put his hand into the silk bag and pulled out the Hungarian Horntail, and the number four.  It stretched its wings as he looked down at it, and bared its minuscule fangs.
"Well, there you are!" said Bagman.  "You have each pulled out the dragon you will face, and the numbers refer to the order in which you are to take on the dragons, do you see? Now, I
m commentating.  Mr. Diggory, you


 said Harry blankly, and he got up and went out of the tent with Bagman, who walked him a short distance away, into the trees, and then turned to him with a fatherly expression on his face.



 said Harry.  


  said Bagman, lowering his voice conspiratorially.  
t mind sharing a few pointers, if you
 Bagman continued, lowering his voice still further, 
re the underdog here, Harry. . . . Anything I can do to help. . ."
"No," said Harry so quickly he knew he had sounded rude, "no - I - I know what I


 said Bagman, winking at him.

m fine," said Harry, wondering why he kept telling people this, and wondering whether he had ever been less fine.  "I

A whistle had blown somewhere.

ve got to run!"  said Bagman in alarm, and he hurried off.
Harry walked back to the tent and saw Cedric emerging from it, greener than ever. Harry tried to wish him luck as he walked past, but all that came out of his mouth was a sort of hoarse grunt.
Harry went back inside to Fleur and Krum. Seconds hater, they heard the roar of the crowd, which meant Cedric had entered the enclosure and was now face-to-face with the living counterpart of his model.
It was worse than Harry could ever have imagined, sitting there and listening.  The crowd screamed. . . yelled.. . gasped like a single many-headed entity, as Cedric did whatever he was doing to get past the Swedish Short-Snout.  Krum was still staring at the ground.  Fleur had now taken to retracing Cedric
s commentary made everything much, much worse.. . . Horrible pictures formed in Harry
Oooh, narrow miss there, very narrow
He's taking risks, this one!
Clever move - pity it didn't work!
Very good indeed!
And now the marks from the judges!
t shout out the marks; Harry supposed the judges were holding them up and showing them to the crowd.
"One down, three to go!"  Bagman yelled as the whistle blew again.  "Miss Delacour, if you please!"
Fleur was trembling from head to foot; Harry felt more warmly toward her than he had done so far as she heft the tent with her head held high and her hand clutching her wand.  He and Krum were left alone, at opposite sides of the tent, avoiding each other
Oh I'm not sure that was wise!
Oh. . . nearly!  Careful now. . . good lord, I thought she'd had it then!
s marks were being shown. . . more clapping.. . then, for the third time, the whistle.
"And here comes Mr. Krum!"  cried Bagman, and Krum slouched out, leaving Harry quite alone.
He felt much more aware of his body than usual; very aware of the way his heart was pumping fast, and his fingers tingling with fear. . . yet at the same time, he seemed to be outside himself, seeing the walls of the tent, and hearing the crowd, as though from far away.
"Very daring!"  Bagman was yelling, and Harry heard the Chinese Fireball emit a horrible, roaring shriek, while the crowd drew its collective breath.  "That
s showing - and - yes, he

Applause shattered the wintery air like breaking glass; Krum had finished - it would be Harry's turn any moment.
He stood up, noticing dimly that his legs seemed to be made of marshmallow.  He waited.  And then he heard the whistle blow.  He walked out through the entrance of the tent, the panic rising into a crescendo inside him.  And now he was walking past the trees, through a gap in the enclosure fence.
He saw everything in front of him as though it was a very highly colored dream.  There were hundreds and hundreds of faces staring down at him from stands that had been magicked there since he'd last stood on this spot.  And there was the Horntail, at the other end of the enclosure, crouched low over her clutch of eggs, her wings half-furled, her evil, yellow eyes upon him, a monstrous, scaly, black lizard, thrashing her spiked tail, heaving yard-long gouge marks in the hard ground.  The crowd was making a great deal of noise, but whether friendly or not, Harry didn't know or care.  It was time to do what he had to do. . . to focus his mind, entirely and absolutely, upon the thing that was his only chance.
He raised his wand.

 he shouted.
Harry waited, every fiber of him hoping, praying. . . . If it hadn't worked. . . if it wasn't coming. . . He seemed to be looking at everything around him through some sort of shimmering, transparent barrier, like a heat haze, which made the enclosure and the hundreds of faces around him swim strangely....
And then he heard it, speeding through the air behind him; he turned and saw his Firebolt hurtling toward him around the edge of the woods, soaring into the enclosure, and stopping dead in midair beside him, waiting for him to mount. The crowd was making even more noise. . . . Bagman was shouting something. . . but Harry's ears were not working properly anymore. . . listening wasn't important....
He swung his leg over the broom and kicked off from the ground.  And a second later, something miraculous happened....
As he soared upward, as the wind rushed through his hair, as the crowd's faces became mere flesh-colored pinpnicks below, and the Horntail shrank to the size of a dog, he realized that he had heft not only the ground behind, but also his fear. . . . He was back where he belonged....
This was just another Quidditch match, that was all. . . just another Quidditch match, and that Horntail was just another ugly opposing team.
He looked down at the clutch of eggs and spotted the gold one, gleaming against its cement-colored fellows, residing safely between the dragon's front legs.  
 Harry told himself, 
s go. . ."
He dived.  The Horntail
t care.. . that was no more than dodging a Bludger.
"Great Scott, he can fly!"  yelled Bagman as the crowd shrieked and gasped.  "Are you watching this, Mr. Krum?"
		Harry soared higher in a circle; the Horntail was still following his progress; its head revolving on its long neck - if he kept this up, it would be nicely dizzy - but better not push it too long, or it would be breathing fire again - 
		Harry plummeted just as the Horntail opened its mouth, but this time he was less lucky - he missed the flames, but the tail came whipping up to meet him instead, and as he swerved to the left, one of the long spikes grazed his shoulder, ripping his robes --
		He could feel it stinging, he could hear screaming and groans from the crowd, but the cut didn
t seem to want to take off, she was too protective of her eggs. Though she writhed and twisted, furling and unfurling her wings and keeping those fearsome yellow eyes on Harry, she was afraid to move too far from them. . . but he had to persuade her to do it, or he
s head rose with him, her neck now stretched to its fullest extent, still swaying, hike a snake before its charmer. . .
		Harry rose a few more feet, and she let out a roar of exasperation.  He was like a fly to her, a fly she was longing to swat; her tail thrashed again, but he was too high to reach now. . . . She shot fire into the air, which he dodged.. . . Her jaws opened wide....
"Come on," Harry hissed, swerving tantalizingly above her, "come on, come and get me. . . up you get now. ."
And then she reared, spreading her great, black, leathery wings at last, as wide as those of a small airplane - and Harry dived.  Before the dragon knew what he had done, or where he had disappeared to, he was speeding toward the ground as fast as he could go, toward the eggs now unprotected by her clawed front legs - he had taken his hands off his Firebolt - he had seized the golden egg - 
And with a huge spurt of speed, he was off, he was soaring out over the stands, the heavy egg safely under his uninjured arm, and it was as though somebody had just turned the volume back up - for the first time, he became properly aware of the noise of the crowd, which was screaming and applauding as loudly as the Irish supporters at the World Cup - 
"Look at that!" Bagman was yelling. "Will you look at that! Our youngest champion is quickest to get his egg!  Well, this is going to shorten the odds on Mr. Potter!"
Harry saw the dragon keepers rushing forward to subdue the Horntail, and, over at the entrance to the enclosure, Professor McGonagalh, Professor Moody, and Hagrid hurrying to meet him, all of them waving him toward them, their smiles evident even from this distance.  He flew back over the stands, the noise of the crowd pounding his eardrums, and came in smoothly to land, his heart lighter than it had been in weeks. . . . He had got through the first task, he had survived.
"That was excellent, Potter!"  cried Professor McGonagall as he got off the Firebolt - which from her was extravagant praise.  He noticed that her hand shook as she pointed at his shoulder.  "You
s had to mop up Diggory already. . . ."
"Yeh did it, Harry!" said Hagrid hoarsely.  "Yeh did it!  An
 the Horntail an
 yeh know Charlie said that was the wors


 said Harry loudly, so that Hagrid wouldn't blunder on and reveal that he had shown Harry the dragons beforehand.
Professor Moody looked very pleased too; his magical eye was dancing in its socket.

 he growled.

 said Professor McGonagall.
Harry walked out of the enclosure, still panting, and saw Madam Pomfrey standing at the mouth of a second tent, looking worried.

  she said, in a disgusted tone, pulling Harry inside.  The tent was divided into cubicles; he could make out Cedric's shadow through the canvas, but Cedric didn't seem to be badly injured; he was sitting up, at least. Madam Pomfrey examined Harry's shoulder, talking furiously all the while.  
re very lucky. . . this is quite shallow. . . it

She cleaned the cut with a dab of some purple liquid that smoked and stung, but then poked his shoulder with her wand, and he felt it heal instantly.


She bustled out of the tent and he heard her go next door and say, 

Harry didn't want to sit still:  He was too full of adrenaline.  He got to his feet, wanting to see what was going on outside, but before he'd reached the mouth of the tent, two people had come darting inside - Hermione, followed closely by Ron.

   Hermione said squeakily. There were fingernail marks on her face where she had been clutching it in fear.  

But Harry was looking at Ron, who was very white and staring at Harry as though he were a ghost.

 he said, very seriously, 
re trying to do you in!"
It was as though the last few weeks had never happened - as though Harry were meeting Ron for the first time, right after he
Caught on, have you?
Took you long enough.
t need to hear it.
"It
 he said, before Ron could get the words out.  
 

 said Ron, 
t


Harry said.
Ron grinned nervously at him, and Harry grinned back 
Hermione burst into tears.

s nothing to cry about!"  Harry told her, bewildered.  
"You two are so stupid!" she shouted, stamping her foot on the ground, tears splashing down her front.  Then, before either of them could stop her, she had given both of them a hug and dashed away, now positively howling.
"Barking mad," said Ron, shaking his head.  "Harry, c
ll be putting up your scores. . . ."
Picking up the golden egg and his Firebolt, feeling more elated than he would have believed possible an hour ago, Harry ducked out of the tent, Ron by his side, talking fast.
"You were the best, you know, no competition.  Cedric did this weird thing where he Transfigured a rock on the ground. . . turned it into a dog. . . he was trying to make the dragon go for the dog instead of him.  Well, it was a pretty cool bit of Transfiguration, and it sort of worked, because he did get the egg, but he got burned as well - the dragon changed its mind halfway through and decided it would rather have him than the Labrador; he only just got away. And that Fleur girl tried this sort of charm, I think she was trying to put it into a trance - well, that kind of worked too, it went all sleepy, but then it snored, and this great jet of flame shot out, and her skirt caught fire - she put it out with a bit of water out of her wand.  And Krum - you won
t even think of flying!  He was probably the best after you, though.  Hit it with some sort of spell right in the eye.  Only thing is, it went trampling around in agony and squashed half the real eggs - they took marks off for that, he wasn

Ron drew breath as he and Harry reached the edge of the enclosure.  Now that the Horntail had been taken away, Harry could see where the five judges were sitting - right at the other end, in raised seats draped in gold.

s marks out of ten from each one," Ron said, and Harry squinting up the field, saw the first judge - Madame Maxime - raise her wand in the air.  What hooked like a long silver ribbon shot out of it, which twisted itself into a large figure eight.
"Not bad!" said Ron as the crowd applauded.  "I suppose she took marks off for your shoulder. . .
Mr. Crouch came next. He shot a number nine into the air.
"Looking good!"  Ron yelled, thumping Harry on the back.
Next, Dumbledore.  He too put up a nine.  The crowd was cheering harder than ever.
Ludo Bagman - ten.
"Ten?" said Harry in disbelief.  "But. . . I got hurt. . . . What


t complain!" Ron yelled excitedly.
And now Karkaroff raised his wand. He paused for a moment, and then a number shot out of his wand too - four.
"What?" Ron bellowed furiously. "Four?  You lousy, biased scum-bag, you gave Krum ten!"
But Harry didn
t have cared if Karkaroff had given him zero; Ron
t tell Ron this, of course, but his heart felt lighter than air as he turned to leave the enclosure.  And it wasn
t only Gryffindors cheering in the crowd.  When it had come to it, when they had seen what he was facing, most of the school had been on his side as well as Cedric
t care about the Slytherins, he could stand whatever they threw at him now.
"You
  said Charlie Weasley, hurrying to meet them as they set off back toward the school.  
ve got to run, I
d tell her what happened - but that was unbelievable!  Oh yeah - and they told me to tell you you
 tent."
Ron said he would wait, so Harry reentered the tent, which somehow looked quite different now:  friendly and welcoming.  He thought back to how he
d walked out to face it.... There was no comparison; the wait had been immeasurably worse.
Fleur, Cedric, and Krum all came in together.  One side of Cedric
Good one, Harry.
And you,
Well done, all of you!
Now, just a quick few words. You've got a nice long break before the second task, which will take place at half past nine on the morning of February the twenty-fourth - but we're giving you something to think about in the meantime!  If you look down at those golden eggs you're all holding, you will see that they open. . . see the hinges there?  You need to solve the clue inside the egg - because it will tell you what the second task is, and enable you to prepare for it!  All clear?  Sure?  Well, off you go, then!
Congratulations, Harry!
I wonder if you could give me a quick word?  How you felt facing that dragon?  How you feel now, about the fairness of the scoring?
Yeah, you can have a word,
Good-bye.
Fits, doesn't it?
Remember what Malfoy said on the train, about his dad being friends with Karkaroff?  Now we know where they knew each other.  They were probably running around in masks together at the World Cup.... I'll tell you one thing, though, Harry, if it was Karkaroff who put your name in the goblet, he's going to be feeling really stupid now, isn't he?  Didn't work, did it?  You only got a scratch!  Come here - I'll do it -
s head, hooting incessantly.  Ron snatched Pigwidgeon out of the air and held him still while Harry attached the letter to his leg.
"There
  Ron went on as he carried Pigwidgeon to the window.  
m serious."
Harry knew that Ron was only saying this to make up for his behavior of the last few weeks, but he appreciated it all the same.  Hermione, however, leaned against the Owlery wall, folded her arms, and frowned at Ron.
"Harry
 she said seriously.  
s coming next."
"Right little ray of sunshine, aren
  said Ron.  

He threw Pigwidgeon out of the window.  Pigwidgeon plummeted twelve feet before managing to pull himself back up again; the letter attached to his leg was much longer and heavier than usual - Harry hadn't been able to resist giving Sirius a blow-by-blow account of exactly how he had swerved, circled, and dodged the Horntail.  They watched Pigwidgeon disappear into the darkness, and then Ron said, 
d better get downstairs for your surprise party, Harry - Fred and George should have nicked enough food from the kitchens by now."
Sure enough, when they entered the Gryffindor common room it exploded with cheers and yells again.  There were mountains of cakes and flagons of pumpkin juice and butterbeer on every surface; Lee Jordan had let off some Filibuster
s head on his Firebolt, though a couple showed Cedric with his head on fire.
Harry helped himself to food; he had almost forgotten what it was like to feel properly hungry, and sat down with Ron and Hermione.  He couldn
d gotten through the first task, and he wouldn
Blimey, this is heavy,
Open it, Harry, go on!  Let's just see what's inside it!
He's supposed to work out the clue on his own,
It's in the tournament rules. . . .
I was supposed to work out how to get past the dragon on my own too,
Yeah, go on, Harry, open it!
s deathday party, who had all been playing the musical saw.
"Shut it!"  Fred bellowed, his hands over his ears.
"What was that?"  said Seamus Finnigan, staring at the egg as Harry slammed it shut again.  "Sounded like a banshee ... Maybe you


 said Neville, who had gone very white and spilled sausage rolls all over the floor.  
re going to have to fight the Cruciatus Curse!"
"Don
s illegal," said George.  "They wouldn
ve got to attack him while he


 said Fred.
Hermione looked doubtfully at the plate he was offering her. Fred grinned.

s all right," he said. "I haven
s the custard creams you

Neville, who had just bitten into a custard cream, choked and spat it out. Fred laughed.


Hermione took a jam tart. Then she said, 


 said Fred, grinning at her. He put on a high-pitched squeak and imitated a house-elf.  
Anything we can get you, sir, anything at all!
re dead helpful... get me a roast ox if I said I was peckish."
"How do you get in there?" Hermione said in an innocently casual sort of voice.
"Easy," said Fred, "concealed door behind a painting of a bowl of fruit. Just tickle the pear, and it giggles and -" He stopped and looked suspiciously at her. "Why?"
"Nothing," said Hermione quickly.
"Going to try and lead the house-elves out on strike now, are you?" said George. "Going to give up all the leaflet stuff and try and stir them up into rebellion?"
Several people chortled. Hermione didn
Don't you go upsetting them and telling them they've got to take clothes and salaries!
You'll put them off their cooking!
Oh - sorry, Neville!
I forgot - it was the custard
creams we hexed -
Canary Creams!
George and I invented them - seven Sickles each, a bargain!
s horses well provided with their preferred drink of single-malt whiskey; the fumes wafting from the trough in the comer of their paddock was enough to make the entire Care of Magical Creatures class light-headed.  This was unhelpful, as they were still tending the horrible skrewts and needed their wits about them.
"I
 Hagrid told the shivering class in the windy pumpkin patch next lesson.  
d jus
ll jus
em down in these boxes. . . ."
There were now only ten skrewts left; apparently their desire to kill one another had not been exercised out of them.  Each of them was now approaching six feet in length.  Their thick gray armor; their powerful, scuttling legs; their fire-blasting ends; their stings and their suckers, combined to make the skrewts the most repulsive things Harry had ever seen.  The class looked dispiritedly at the enormous boxes Hagrid had brought out, all lined with pillows and fluffy blankets.
"We
 lead 
 Hagrid said, 
 put the lids on, and we

But the skrewts, it transpired, did not hibernate, and did not appreciate being forced into pillow-lined boxes and nailed in.  Hagrid was soon yelling, 
 panic!" while the skrewts rampaged around the pumpkin patch, now strewn with the smoldering wreckage of the boxes.  Most of the class - Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle in the lead - had fled into Hagrid
Don' frighten him, now!
Jus' try an slip the rope 'round his sting, so he won hurt any o' the others!
Yeah, we wouldn't want that!
s cabin, still holding the skrewt off with their sparks.
"Well, well, well. . . this does look like fun."
Rita Skeeter was leaning on Hagrid
Who're you?
s sting and tightened it.
"Rita Skeeter, Daily Prophet reporter," Rita replied, beaming at him. Her gold teeth glinted.
"Thought Dumbledore said you weren
 said Hagrid, frowning slightly as he got off the slightly squashed skrewt and started tugging it over to its fellows.
Rita acted as though she hadn't heard what Hagrid had said.

 she asked, beaming still more widely.

 grunted Hagrid.

  said Rita, apparently full of lively interest.  
ve never heard of them before...where do they come from?"
Harry noticed a dull red flush rising up out of Hagrid
They're very interesting, aren't they?  Aren't they. Harry?
What? Oh yeah . . . ouch . . . interesting,
Ah, you're here.  Harry!
So you like Care of Magical Creatures, do you?  One of your favorite lessons?
Yes,
Lovely,
Really lovely.  Been teaching long?
This is o'ny me second year,
Lovely... I don't suppose you'd like to give an interview, would you?  Share some of your experience of magical creatures?  The Prophet does a zoological column every Wednesday, as I'm sure you know.  We could feature these - er - Bang-Ended Scoots.
Blast-Ended Skrewts,
Er - yeah, why not?
Well, good-bye, Harry!
Until Friday night, then, Hagrid!
She'll twist everything he says,
Just as long as he didn't import those skrewts illegally or anything,
Hagrids been in loads of trouble before, and Dumbledores never sacked him,
Worst that can happen is Hagrid'll have to get rid of the skrewts.  Sorry . . . did I say worst?  I meant best.
I would think,
that some of us
might be a little less  frivolous had they seen what I have seen during my crystal gazing last night.  As I sat here, absorbed in my needlework, the urge to consult the orb overpowered me.  I arose, I settled myself before it, and I gazed into its crystalline depths . . . and what do you think I saw gazing back at me?
An ugly old bat in outsize specs?
Death, my dears.
Yes,
it comes, ever closer, it circles overhead like a vulture, ever lower. . . ever lower over the castle. . . .
It'd be a bit more impressive if she hadn't done it about eighty times before,
s room.  "But if I
s told me I
d be a medical miracle."
"You
 said Ron, chortling, as they passed the Bloody Baron going in the opposite direction, his wide eyes staring sinisterly.  
t get homework.  I hope Hermione got loads off Professor Vector, I love not working when she is. . . ."
But Hermione wasn
Wonder where she's got to?
Dunno . . . balderdash.
s arrival.
"Harry!" she panted, skidding to a halt beside him (the Fat Lady stared down at her, eyebrows raised).  "Harry, you
ve got to come, the most amazing thing

She seized Harry's arm and started to try to drag him back along the corridor.

s the matter?"  Harry said.
"I

Harry looked around at Ron; he looked back at Harry, intrigued.

 Harry said, starting off back down the corridor with Hermione, Ron hurrying to keep up.

t mind me!" the Fat Lady called irritably after them.  "Don
ll just hang here, wide open, until you get back, shall I?"
"Yeah, thanks!" Ron shouted over his shoulder.
"Hermione, where are we going?"  Harry asked, after she had led
them down through six floors, and started down the marble staircase into the entrance hall.
"You
ll see in a minute!"  said Hermione excitedly.
She turned left at the bottom of the staircase and hurried toward the door through which Cedric Diggory had gone the night after the Goblet of Fire had regurgitated his and Harry
s dungeon, they found themselves in a broad stone corridor, brightly lit with torches, and decorated with cheerful paintings that were mainly of food.
"Oh hang on . . ." said Harry slowly, halfway down the corridor. "Wait a minute, Hermione. . . ."
"What?" She turned around to look at him, anticipation all over her face.
"I know what this is about," said Harry.
He nudged Ron and pointed to the painting just behind Hermione.  It showed a gigantic silver fruit bowl.
"Hermione!" said Ron, cottoning on.  "You


m not!" she said hastily. "And it


  said Ron, frowning at her.  
m not barging into that kitchen and trying to make them stop work, I


m not asking you to!"  Hermione said impatiently.  "I came down here just now, to talk to them all, and I found - oh come on, Harry, I want to show you!"
She seized his arm again, pulled him in front of the picture of the giant fruit bowl, stretched out her forefinger, and tickled the huge green pear.  It began to squirm, chuckling, and suddenly turned into a large green door handle.  Hermione seized it, pulled the door open, and pushed Harry hard in the back, forcing him inside.
He had one brief glimpse of an enormous, high-ceilinged room, large as the Great Hall above it, with mounds of glittering brass pots and pans heaped around the stone walls, and a great brick fireplace at the other end, when something small hurtled toward him from the middle of the room, squealing, "Harry Potter, sir!  Harry Potter!"
Next second all the wind had been knocked out of him as the squealing elf hit him hard in the midriff, hugging him so tightly he thought his ribs would break.
"D-Dobby?" Harry gasped.
"It is Dobby, sir, it is!"  squealed the voice from somewhere around his navel.  "Dobby has been hoping and hoping to see Harry Potter, sir, and Harry Potter has come to see him, sir!"
Dobby let go and stepped back a few paces, beaming up at Harry, his enormous, green, tennis-ball-shaped eyes brimming with tears of happiness.  He looked almost exactly as Harry remembered him; the pencil-shaped nose, the batlike ears, the long fingers and feet - all except the clothes, which were very different.
When Dobby had worked for the Malfoys, he had always worn the same filthy old pillowcase.  Now, however, he was wearing the strangest assortment of garments Harry had ever seen; he had done an even worse job of dressing himself than the wizards at the World Cup.  He was wearing a tea cozy for a hat, on which he had pinned a number of bright badges; a tie patterned with horseshoes over a bare chest, a pair of what looked like children
Dobby, what're you doing here?
Dobby has come to work at Hogwarts, sir!
Professor Dumbledore gave Dobby and Winky jobs, sir!

  said Harry.  
s here too?"
"Yes, sir, yes!"  said Dobby, and he seized Harry
s had been, like a toga.
Dobby stopped in front of the brick fireplace and pointed.
"Winky, sir!"  he said.
Winky was sitting on a stool by the fire.  Unlike Dobby, she had obviously not foraged for clothes.  She was wearing a neat little skirt and blouse with a matching blue hat, which had holes in it for her large ears.  However, while every one of Dobby
Hello, Winky,
s lip quivered. Then she burst into tears, which spilled out of her great brown eyes and splashed down her front, just as they had done at the Quidditch World Cup.
"Oh dear," said Hermione.  She and Ron had followed Harry and Dobby to the end of the kitchen.  "Winky, don
t..."
But Winky cried harder than ever.  Dobby, on the other hand, beamed up at Harry.
"Would Harry Potter like a cup of tea?" he squeaked loudly, over Winky
Er - yeah, okay,
Good service!
How long have you been here, Dobby?
Only a week. Harry Potter, sir!
Dobby came to see Professor Dumbledore, sir.  You see, sir, it is very difficult for a house-elf who has been dismissed to get a new position, sir, very difficult indeed -
Dobby has traveled the country for two whole years, sir, trying to find work!
But Dobby hasn't found work, sir, because Dobby wants paying now!
Good for you, Dobby!
Thank you, miss!
But most wizards doesn't want a house-elf who wants paying, miss.  'That's not the point of a house-elf,' they says, and they slammed the door in Dobby's face!  Dobby likes work, but he wants to wear clothes and he wants to be paid.  Harry Potter.... Dobby likes being free!
And then, Harry Potter, Dobby goes to visit Winky, and finds out Winky has been freed too, sir!
s screeches.
"And then Dobby had the idea. Harry Potter, sir! 
t Dobby and Winky find work together?
Where is there enough work for two house-elves?

Dobby beamed very brightly, and happy tears welled in his eyes again.



s not very much!" Hermione shouted indignantly from the floor, over Winky
Professor Dumbledore offered Dobby ten Galleons a week, and weekends off,
but Dobby beat him down, miss. . . . Dobby likes freedom, miss, but he isn't wanting too much, miss, he likes work better.
And how much is Professor Dumbledore paying you, Winky?
Winky is a disgraced elf, but Winky is not yet getting paid!
Winky is not sunk so low as that!  Winky is properly ashamed of being freed!
Ashamed?
But - Winky, come on!  It's Mr. Crouch who should be ashamed, not you!  You didn't do anything wrong, he was really horrible to you -
t hear a word, and screeched, "You is not insulting my master, miss! You is not insulting Mr. Crouch!  Mr. Crouch is a good wizard, miss!  Mr. Crouch is right to sack bad Winky!"
"Winky is having trouble adjusting, Harry Potter," squeaked Dobby confidentially. "Winky forgets she is not bound to Mr. Crouch anymore; she is allowed to speak her mind now, but she won


t house-elves speak their minds about their masters, then?" Harry asked.
"Oh no, sir, no," said Dobby, looking suddenly serious.  "
s enslavement, sir.  We keeps their secrets and our silence, sir.  We upholds the family

Dobby looked suddenly nervous and beckoned Harry closer.  Harry bent forward. Dobby whispered, 

Dobby gave a frightened sort of giggle.

 he said, talking normally again, and shaking his head so that his ears flapped.  


 Harry asked him, grinning.
A slightly fearful look came into Dobby's immense eyes.

 he said doubtfully. He squared his small shoulders.  
."
Dobby stood for a moment, quivering all over, horror-struck by his own daring - then he rushed over to the nearest table and began banging his head on it very hard, squealing, "Bad Dobby! Bad Dobby!"
Harry seized Dobby by the back of his tie and pulled him away from the table.
"Thank you. Harry Potter, thank you," said Dobby breathlessly, rubbing his head.
"You just need a bit of practice," Harry said.
"Practice!"  squealed Winky furiously.  "You is ought to be ashamed of yourself, Dobby, talking that way about your masters!"
"They isn
  said Dobby defiantly.  
t care what they think anymore!"
"Oh you is a bad elf, Dobby!"  moaned Winky, tears leaking down her face once more.  "My poor Mr. Crouch, what is he doing without Winky?  He is needing me, he is needing my help!  I is looking after the Crouches all my life, and my mother is doing it before me, and my grandmother is doing it before her ... oh what is they saying if they knew Winky was freed?  Oh the shame, the shame!"  She buried her face in her skirt again and bawled.
"Winky," said Hermione firmly, "I
ve seen him, you know -"
"You is seeing my master?"  said Winky breathlessly, raising her tearstained face out of her skirt once more and goggling at Hermione.  "You is seeing him here at Hogwarts?"
"Yes," said Hermione, "he and Mr. Bagman are judges in the Triwizard Tournament."
"Mr. Bagman comes too?" squeaked Winky, and to Harry 
s and Hermione
Mr. Bagman is a bad wizard!  A very bad wizard!  My master isn't liking him, oh no, not at all!
Bagman - bad?
Oh yes,
My master is telling Winky some things!  But Winky is not saying.. . Winky - Winky keeps her master's secrets. ...
Poor master, poor master, no Winky to help him no more!
t get another sensible word out of Winky.  They left her to her crying and finished their tea, while Dobby chatted happily about his life as a free elf and his plans for his wages.
"Dobby is going to buy a sweater next, Harry Potter!" he said happily, pointing at his bare chest,
"Tell you what, Dobby," said Ron, who seemed to have taken a great liking to the elf, "I
t mind maroon, do you?"
Dobby was delighted.
"We might have to shrink it a bit to fit you," Ron told him, "but it

As they prepared to take their leave, many of the surrounding elves pressed in upon them, offering snacks to take back upstairs.  Hermione refused, with a pained look at the way the elves kept bowing and curtsying, but Harry and Ron loaded their pockets with cream cakes and pies.

 Harry said to the elves, who had all clustered around the door to say good night.  


  Dobby asked tentatively.

Course you can," said Harry, and Dobby beamed.
"You know what?"  said Ron, once he, Hermione, and Harry had left the kitchens behind and were climbing the steps into the entrance hall again.  "All these years I
s not exactly difficult, is it?  They can


 said Hermione, leading the way back up the marble staircase.  
ll dawn on them that they want that too!"
"Let
t look too closely at Winky," said Harry.
"Oh she
 said Hermione, though she sounded a bit doubtful.  
s worn off, and she
ll see how much better off she is without that Crouch man."
"She seems to love him," said Ron thickly (he had just started on a cream cake).
"Doesn
  said Harry.  


s not a very good Head of Department," said Hermione, "and let
s got a point, hasn


d still rather work for him than old Crouch," said Ron. "At least Bagman


t let Percy hear you saying that," Hermione said, smiling slightly.
"Yeah, well, Percy wouldn
 said Ron, now starting on a chocolate eclair.  
t recognize a joke if it danced naked in front of him wearing Dobby


CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO - THE UNEXPECTED TASK

Potter!  Weasley!  Will you pay attention?
s irritated voice cracked like a whip through the Transfiguration class on Thursday, and Harry and Ron both jumped and looked up.
It was the end of the lesson; they had finished their work; the guinea fowl they had been changing into guinea pigs had been shut away in a large cage on Professor McGonagall
s still had feathers); they had copied down their homework from the blackboard ("Describe, with examples, the ways in which Transforming Spells must be adapted when performing Cross-Species Switches"}.  The bell was due to ring at any moment, and Harry and Ron, who had been having a sword fight with a couple of Fred and George
Now that Potter and Weasley have been kind enough to act their age,
s haddock drooped and fell silently to the floor - Ron
s beak had severed it moments before - "I have something to say to you all.
"The Yule Ball is approaching - a traditional part of the Triwizard Tournament and an opportunity for us to socialize with our foreign guests.  Now, the ball will be open only to fourth years and above - although you may invite a younger student if you wish -"
Lavender Brown let out a shrill giggle.  Parvati Patil nudged her hard in the ribs, her face working furiously as she too fought not to giggle.  They both looked around at Harry, Professor McGonagall ignored them, which Harry thought was distinctly unfair, as she had just told off him and Ron.
"Dress robes will be worn," Professor McGonagall continued, "and the ball will start at eight o

Professor McGonagall stared deliberately around the class.

 she said, in a disapproving voice.
Lavender giggled harder than ever, with her hand pressed hard against her mouth to stifle the sound.  Harry could see what was funny this time:  Professor McGonagall, with her hair in a tight bun, looked as though she had never let her hair down in any sense.

 Professor McGonagall went on, 

The bell rang, and there was the usual scuffle of activity as everyone packed their bags and swung them onto their shoulders.
Professor McGonagall called above the noise, 

Assuming this had something to do with his headless rubber haddock, Harry proceeded gloomily to the teacher's desk.  Professor McGonagall waited until the rest of the class had gone, and then said, 


 said Harry.
Profesor McGonagall looked suspiciously at him, as though she thought he was trying to be funny.

 she said coldly. 

Harry's insides seemed to curl up and shrivel.

  He felt himself going red.  
t dance," he said quickly.
"Oh yes, you do," said Professor McGonagall irritably.  "That
m telling you. Traditionally, the champions and their partners open the ball."
Harry had a sudden mental image of himself in a top hat and tails, accompanied by a girl in the sort of frilly dress Aunt Petunia always wore to Uncle Vernon
I'm not dancing,
It is traditional,
You are a Hogwarts champion, and you will do what is expected of you as a representative of the school.  So make sure you get yourself a partner, Potter.
But-I don't-
You heard me, Potter,
d rather have another round with the dragon.
Harry had never known so many people to put their names down to stay at Hogwarts for Christmas; he always did, of course, because the alternative was usually going back to Privet Drive, but he had always been very much in the minority before now.  This year, however, everyone in the fourth year and above seemed to be staying, and they all seemed to Harry to be obsessed with the coming ball - or at least all the girls were, and it was amazing how many girls Hogwarts suddenly seemed to hold; he had never quite noticed that before.  Girls giggling and whispering in the corridors, girls shrieking with laughter as boys passed them, girls excitedly comparing notes on what they were going to wear on Christmas night... .
"Why do they have to move in packs?"  Harry asked Ron as a dozen or so girls walked past them, sniggering and staring at Harry.  "How


  Ron suggested.  
re going to try?"
Harry didn
d like to ask, but working up the nerve was something else. . . . Cho was a year older than he was; she was very pretty; she was a very good Quidditch player, and she was also very popular.
Ron seemed to know what was going on inside Harry
Listen, you're not going to have any trouble.  You're a champion.  You've just beaten a Hungarian Horntail.  I bet they'll be queuing up to go with you.
s amazement, he turned out to be quite right.
A curly-haired third-year Hufflepuff girl to whom Harry had never spoken in his life asked him to go to the ball with her the very next day.  Harry was so taken aback he said no before he
s, Seamus
s taunts about her all through History of Magic. The following day, two more girls asked him, a second year and (to his horror) a fifth year who looked as though she might knock him out if he refused.
"She was quite good-looking," said Ron fairly, after he
She was a foot taller than me,
Imagine what I'd look like trying to dance with her.
s words about Krum kept coming back to him. "They only like him because he
  Harry doubted very much if any of the girls who had asked to be his partner so far would have wanted to go to the ball with him if he hadn't been a school champion.  Then he wondered if this would bother him if Cho asked him.
On the whole. Harry had to admit that even with the embarrassing prospect of opening the ball before him, life had definitely improved since he had got through the first task.  He wasn't attracting nearly as much unpleasantness in the corridors anymore, which he suspected had a lot to do with Cedric - he had an idea Cedric might have told the Hufflepuffs to leave Harry alone, in gratitude for Harry's tip-off about the dragons.  There seemed to be fewer Support Cedric Diggory! badges around too.  Draco Malfoy, of course, was still quoting Rita Skeeter's article to him at every possible opportunity, but he was getting fewer and fewer laughs out of it - and just to heighten Harry's feeling of well-being, no story about Hagrid had appeared in the Daily Prophet.

 seem very int
 Hagrid said, when Harry, Ron, and Hermione asked him how his interview with Rita Skeeter had gone during the last Care of Magical Creatures lesson of the term.  To their very great relief, Hagrid had given up on direct contact with the skrewts now, and they were merely sheltering behind his cabin today, sitting at a trestle table and preparing a fresh selection of food with which to tempt the skrewts.

 wanted me ter talk about you, Harry," Hagrid continued in a low voice.  "Well, I told her we
Never had to tell him off in four years?
Never played you up in lessons, has he?
 seem happy at all.  Yeh


Course she did," said Harry, throwing lumps of dragon liver into a large metal bowl and picking up his knife to cut some more.  "She can
ll get boring."
"She wants a new angle, Hagrid," said Ron wisely as he shelled salamander eggs.  "You were supposed to say Harry


s not!" said Hagrid, looking genuinely shocked.
"She should
 said Harry grimly. 
d give her the goods on me any day.  
"
"Said that, did he?"  said Hagrid, while Ron and Hermione laughed.  "Well, yeh might
 yeh
 really, aren


 said Harry, grinning.

  said Ron.

 I might look in on it, yeah," said Hagrid gruffly.  "Should be a good do, I reckon.  You
, won yeh, Harry?  Who
?"
"No one, yet," said Harry, feeling himself going red again.  Hagrid didn
t believe half of them - for instance, that Dumbledore had bought eight hundred barrels of mulled mead from Madam Rosmerta. It seemed to be fact, however, that he had booked the Weird Sisters.  Exactly who or what the Weird Sisters were Harry didn
s wireless, but he deduced from the wild excitement of those who had grown up listening to the WWN (Wizarding Wireless Network) that they were a very famous musical group.
Some of the teachers, like little Professor Flitwick, gave up trying to teach them much when their minds were so clearly elsewhere; he allowed them to play games in his lesson on Wednesday, and spent most of it talking to Harry about the perfect Summoning Charm
Harry had used during the first task of the Triwizard Tournament.  Other teachers were not so generous.  Nothing would ever deflect Professor Binns, for example, from plowing on through his notes on goblin rebellions - as Binns hadn
t going to put him off.  It was amazing how he could make even bloody and vicious goblin riots sound as boring as Percys cauldron-bottom report.  Professors McGonagall and Moody kept them working until the very last second of their classes too, and Snape, of course, would no sooner let them play games in class than adopt Harry.  Staring nastily around at them all, he informed them that he would be testing them on poison antidotes during the last lesson of the term.
"Evil, he is," Ron said bitterly that night in the Gryffindor common room. "Springing a test on us on the last day. Ruining the last bit of term with a whole load of studying."
"Mmm . . . you
  said Hermione, looking at him over the top of her Potions notes.  Ron was busy building a card castle out of his Exploding Snap pack - a much more interesting pastime than with Muggle cards, because of the chance that the whole thing would blow up at any second.

s Christmas, Hermione," said Harry lazily; he was rereading Flying with the Cannons for the tenth time in an armchair near the fire.
Hermione looked severely over at him too.  "I
d be doing something constructive, Harry, even if you don


 Harry said as he watched Joey Jenkins of the Cannons belt a Bludger toward a Ballycastle Bats Chaser.

 Hermione hissed.

ve got till February the twenty-fourth," Harry said.
He had put the golden egg upstairs in his trunk and hadn
But it might take weeks to work it out!
You're going to look a real idiot if everyone else knows what the next task is and you don't!
Leave him alone, Hermione, he's earned a bit of a break,
Nice look, Ron ... go well with your dress robes, that will.
Ron, can we borrow Pigwidgeon?
No, he's off delivering a letter,
Why?
Because George wants to invite him to the ball,
Because we want to send a letter, you stupid great prat,
Who d'you two keep writing to, eh?
Nose out, Ron, or I'll burn that for you too,
So . . . you lot got dates for the ball yet?
Nope,
Well, you'd better hurry up, mate, or all the good ones will be gone,
Who're you going with, then?
Angelina,
What?
You've already asked her?
Good point,
Oi! Angelina!
What?
Want to come to the ball with me?
All right, then,
There you go,
piece of cake.
We'd better use a school owl then, George, come on. .. .
We should get a move on, you know . . . ask someone.  He's right.  We don't want to end up with a pair of trolls.
A pair of... what, excuse me?
Well - you know,
I'd rather go alone than with - with Eloise Midgen, say.
Her acne's loads better lately - and she's really nice!
Her nose is off-center,
Oh I see,
So basically, you're going to take the best-looking girl who'll have you, even if she's completely horrible?
Er - yeah, that sounds about right,
I'm going to bed,
 staircase without another word.

The Hogwarts staff, demonstrating a continued desire to impress the visitors from Beauxbatons and Durmstrang, seemed determined to show the castle at its best this Christmas. When the decorations went up.  Harry noticed that they were the most stunning he had yet seen inside the school.  Everlasting icicles had been attached to the banisters of the marble staircase; the usual twelve Christmas trees in the Great Hall were bedecked with everything from luminous holly berries to real, hooting, golden owls, and the suits of armor had all been bewitched to sing carols whenever anyone passed them.  It was quite something to hear "0 Come, All Ye Faithful" sung by an empty helmet that only knew half the words.  Several times, Filch the caretaker had to extract Peeves from inside the armor, where he had taken to hiding, filling in the gaps in the songs with lyrics of his own invention, all of which were very rude.
And still.  Harry hadn
I suppose there's always Moaning Myrtle,
 toilets on the second floor.
"Harry - we
 said Ron on Friday morning, in a tone that suggested they were planning the storming of an impregnable fortress.  
ll both have partners - agreed?"
"Er . . . okay," said Harry.
But every time he glimpsed Cho that day - during break, and then lunchtime, and once on the way to History of Magic - she was surrounded by friends.  Didn
t do it soon, she was bound to have been asked by somebody else.
He found it hard to concentrate on Snape
t care, though; he was too busy screwing up his courage for what he was about to do.  When the bell rang, he grabbed his bag, and hurried to the dungeon door.
"I
 he said to Ron and Hermione, and he dashed off upstairs.
He'd just have to ask Cho for a private word, that was all. ... He hurried off through the packed corridors looking for her, and (rather sooner than he had expected) he found her, emerging from a Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson.


Giggling should be made illegal. Harry thought furiously, as all the girls around Cho started doing it.  She didn't, though.  She said, 
 and followed him out of earshot other classmates.
Harry turned to look at her and his stomach gave a weird lurch as though he had missed a step going downstairs.

 he said.
He couldn't ask her.  He couldn't.  But he had to.  Cho stood there looking puzzled, watching him.  The words came out before Harry had quite got his tongue around them.



  said Cho.

you - d
  said Harry.  Why did he have to go red now? Why?

 s aid Cho, and she went red too.  
m really sorry," and she truly looked it.  "I
ll go with someone else."
"Oh," said Harry.
It was odd; a moment before his insides had been writhing like snakes, but suddenly he didn
Oh okay,
no problem.
I'm really sorry,
That's okay,
Well-
Yeah,
Well, 'bye,
Who're you going with?
Oh - Cedric,
Cedric Diggory.
Oh right,
s voice echoing in his ears with every step he took. "Cedric - Cedric Diggory."  He had been starting to quite like Cedric - prepared to overlook the fact that he had once beaten him at Quidditch, and was handsome, and popular, and nearly everyone
t have enough brains to fill an eggcup.
"Fairy lights," he said dully to the Fat Lady - the password had been changed the previous day.
"Yes, indeed, dear!"  she trilled, straightening her new tinsel hair band as she swung forward to admit him.
Entering the common room, Harry looked around, and to his surprise he saw Ron sitting ashen-faced in a distant corner.  Ginny was sitting with him, talking to him in what seemed to be a low, soothing voice.
"What
 said Harry, joining them.
Ron looked up at Harry, a sort of blind horror in his face.

 he said wildly.  
t know what made me do it!
"What?" said Harry.
"He - er - just asked Fleur Delacour to go to the ball with him," said Ginny.  She looked as though she was fighting back a smile, but she kept patting Ron
You what?' said Harry.

t know what made me do it!"  Ron gasped again.  "What was I playing at? There were people - all around - I

Ron moaned and put his face in his hands.  He kept talking, though the words were barely distinguishable.

t even answer.  And then - I dunno - I just sort of came to my senses and ran for it."
"She
 said Harry.  
t your fault, I bet you just walked past when she was turning on the old charm for Diggory and got a blast of it - but she was wasting her time.  He

Ron looked up.

 Harry said dully, 

Ginny had suddenly stopped smiling.

 said Ron.  
re the only ones left who haven


 said Harry, completely distracted by this startling news.

  said Ron, some of the color coming back into his face as he started to laugh.  
s always been really nice, helping him out with work and stuff- but she told him she was already going with someone.  Ha!  As if!  She just didn


t!" said Ginny, annoyed. "Don

Just then Hermione climbed in through the portrait hole.

t you two at dinner?"  she said, coming over to join them.
"Because - oh shut up laughing, you two - because they
  said Ginny.
That shut Harry and Ron up.

 said Ron sourly.

  said Hermione loftily.  
m sure you
ll have you."
But Ron was staring at Hermione as though suddenly seeing her in a whole new light.
"Hermione, Neville


 she said acidly.



t," snapped Hermione.
"Oh come on," he said impatiently, "we need partners, we
t got any, everyone else has . . ."
"I can
 said Hermione, now blushing, 
m already going with someone."
"No, you
  said Ron. 


 said Hermione, and her eyes flashed dangerously.  
s taken you three years to notice, Ron, doesn
m a girl!"
Ron stared at her. Then he grinned again.
"Okay, okay, we know you
 he said.  


ve already told you!"  Hermione said very angrily.  "I

And she stormed off toward the girls' dormitories again.

s lying," said Ron flatly, watching her go.
"She
 said Ginny quietly.

  said Ron sharply.

m not telling you, it
 said Ginny.

 said Ron, who looked extremely put out, 
ll just -"
"I can
 said Ginny, and she went scarlet too. 
m going with - with Neville.  He asked me when Hermione said no, and I thought. . . well. . . I
m not in fourth year."  She looked extremely miserable.  "I think I
 she said, and she got up and walked off to the portrait hole, her head bowed.
Ron goggled at Harry.

s got into them?"  he demanded.
But Harry had just seen Parvati and Lavender come in through the portrait hole. The time had come for drastic action.
"Wait here," he said to Ron, and he stood up, walked straight up to Parvati, and said, "Parvati? Will you go to the ball with me?"
Parvati went into a fit of giggles.  Harry waited for them to subside, his fingers crossed in the pocket of his robes.
"Yes, all right then," she said finally, blushing furiously.
"Thanks," said Harry, in relief.  "Lavender - will you go with Ron?"
"She
 said Parvati, and the pair of them giggled harder than ever.
Harry sighed.

t you think of anyone who
  he said, lowering his voice so that Ron wouldn't hear.

  said Parvati.

s going with someone else."
Parvati looked astonished.
"Ooooh - who?"  she said keenly.
Harry shrugged. "No idea," he said.  "So what about Ron?"
"Well. . ." said Parvati slowly, "I suppose my sister might. . . Padma, you know ... in Ravenclaw.  I


 said Harry.  

And he went back over to Ron, feeling that this ball was a lot more trouble than it was worth, and hoping very much that Padma Patil's nose was dead center.

CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE - THE YULE BALL

Despite the very heavy load of homework that the fourth  years had been given for the holidays.  Harry was in no mood to work when term ended, and spent the week leading up to Christmas enjoying himself as fully as possible along with everyone else.  Gryffindor Tower was hardly less crowded now than during term-time; it seemed to have shrunk slightly too, as its inhabitants were being so much rowdier than usual.  Fred and George had had a great success with their Canary Creams, and for the first couple of days of the holidays, people kept bursting into feather all over the place.  Before long, however, all the Gryffindors had learned to treat food anybody else offered them with extreme caution, in case it had a Canary Cream concealed in the center, and George confided to Harry that he and Fred were now working on developing something else.  Harry made a mental note never to accept so much as a crisp from Fred and George in future.  He still hadn't forgotten Dudley and the Ton-Tongue Toffee.
Snow was falling thickly upon the castle and its grounds now.  The pale blue Beauxbatons carriage looked like a large, chilly, frosted pumpkin next to the iced gingerbread house that was Hagrid's cabin, while the Durmstrang ship's portholes were glazed with ice, the rigging white with frost.  The house-elves down in the kitchen were outdoing themselves with a series of rich, warming stews and savory puddings, and only Fleur Delacour seemed to be able to find anything to complain about.

eavy, all zis 
 they heard her saying grumpily as they left the Great Hall behind her one evening (Ron skulking behind Harry, keen not to be spotted by Fleur). 	


s a tragedy," Hermione snapped as Fleur went out into the entrance hall. "She really thinks a lot of herself, that one, doesn


 said Ron.
He kept springing this question on her, hoping to startle her into a response by asking it when she least expected it.  However, Hermione merely frowned and said, 
m not telling you, you


re joking, Weasley!" said Malfoy, behind them. "You
s asked that to the ball?  Not the long-molared Mudblood?"                                                ;
Harry and Ron both whipped around, but Hermione said loudly, waving to somebody over Malfoys shoulder, "Hello, Professor Moody!"
Malfoy went pale and jumped backward, looking wildly around for Moody, but he was still up at the staff table, finishing his stew.
"Twitchy little ferret, aren
 said Hermione scathingly, and she, Harry, and Ron went up the marble staircase laughing heartily.

 said Ron, looking sideways at her, suddenly frowning, 


 she said.

re different. . . I




re different to how they were before he put that hex on you. . . . They

Hermione suddenly smiled very mischievously, and Harry noticed it too: It was a very different smile from the one he remembered.

 she said. 
  She smiled even more widely.  
t be too pleased. I
re dentists, they just don

Ron's tiny owl was twittering madly on the top of the icicle-laden banisters, a scroll of parchment tied to his leg.  People passing him were pointing and laughing, and a group of third-year girls paused and said, 
t he cute?"
Stupid little feathery git!"  Ron hissed, hurrying up the stairs and snatching up Pigwidgeon.  "You bring letters to the addressee!  You don

Pigwidgeon hooted happily, his head protruding over Ron's fist. The third-year girls all looked very shocked.

  Ron snapped at them, waving the fist holding Pigwidgeon, who hooted more happily than ever as he soared through the air.  
 Ron added in an undertone as the third-year girls scuttled away looking scandalized.  He pulled Sirius's reply off Pigwidgeons leg.  Harry pocketed it, and they hurried back to Gryffindor Tower to read it.
Everyone in the common room was much too busy in letting off more holiday steam to observe what anyone else was up to.  Ron, Harry, and Hermione sat apart from everyone else by a dark window that was gradually filling up with snow, and Harry read out:

Dear Harry,
Congratulations on getting past the Horntail.  Whoever put your name in that goblet shouldn't be feeling too happy right now!  I was going to suggest a Conjunctivitus Curse, as a dragon's eyes are its weakest point - 
s what Krum did!" Hermione whispered - but your way was better, I
t get complacent, though. Harry.  You
s got plenty more opportunity if they
He sounds exactly like Moody,
'Constant vigilance!'  You'd think I walk around with my eyes shut, banging off the walls. ...
But he's right, Harry,
you have still got two tasks to do. You really ought to have a look at that egg, you know, and start working out what it means. . . .
Hermione, he's got ages!
Want a game of chess, Harry?
Yeah, okay,
s face, he said, "Come on, how
t even be able to hear the egg over this lot."
"Oh I suppose not," she sighed, and she sat down to watch their chess match, which culminated in an exciting checkmate of Ron
Dobby!
Don't do that!
Dobby is sorry, sir!
Dobby is only wanting to wish Harry Potter 'Merry Christmas' and bring him a present, Sir!  Harry Potter did say Dobby could come and see him sometimes, sir!
s okay," said Harry, still breathing rather faster than usual, while his heart rate returned to normal.  "Just - just prod me or something in future, all right, don

Harry pulled back the curtains around his four-poster, took his glasses from his bedside table, and put them on.  His yell had awoken Ron, Seamus, Dean, and Neville.  All of them were peering through the gaps in their own hangings, heavy-eyed and tousle-haired.

 Seamus asked sleepily.

s just Dobby," Harry muttered. "Go back to sleep."
"Nah . . . presents!" said Seamus, spotting the large pile at the foot of his bed. Ron, Dean, and Neville decided that now they were awake they might as well get down to some present-opening too.  Harry turned back to Dobby, who was now standing nervously next to Harrys bed, still looking worried that he had upset Harry.  There was a Christmas bauble tied to the loop on top of his tea cozy.
"Can Dobby give Harry Potter his present?"  he squeaked tentatively.
"
 said Harry.  
ve got something for you too."
It was a lie; he hadn
Sorry, I forgot to wrap them...
Socks are Dobby's favorite, favorite clothes, sir!
s.  "I has seven now, sir. . . . But sir ..." he said, his eyes widening, having pulled both socks up to their highest extent, so that they reached to the bottom of his shorts, "they has made a mistake in the shop, Harry Potter, they is giving you two the same!"
"Ah, no, Harry, how come you didn
 said Ron, grinning over from his own bed, which was now strewn with wrapping paper. 
s your sweater."
He threw Dobby a pair of violet socks he had just unwrapped, and the hand-knitted sweater Mrs. Weasley had sent, Dobby looked quite overwhelmed.
"Sir is very kind!"  he squeaked, his eyes brimming with tears again, bowing deeply to Ron.  "Dobby knew sir must be a great wizard, for he is Harry Potter


re only socks," said Ron, who had gone slightly pink around the ears, though he looked rather pleased all the same.  "Wow, Harry -" He had just opened Harry
Cool!
Dobby is making them himself, sir!
He is buying the wool out of his wages, sir!
They're . . . they're really . . . well, thanks, Dobby,
s eyes to leak with happiness again.
"Dobby must go now, sir, we is already making Christmas dinner in the kitchens!"  said Dobby, and he hurried out of the dormitory, waving good-bye to Ron and the others as he passed.
Harry
s odd socks - with the obvious exception of the Dursleys
s Every Flavor Beans, Chocolate Frogs, Drooble
s usual package, including a new sweater (green, with a picture of a dragon on it - Harry supposed Charlie had told her all about the Horntail), and a large quantity of homemade mince pies.
Harry and Ron met up with Hermione in the common room, and they went down to breakfast together.  They spent most of the morning in Gryffindor Tower, where everyone was enjoying their presents, then returned to the Great Hall for a magnificent lunch, which included at least a hundred turkeys and Christmas puddings, and large piles of Cribbage
 snowball fight rather than join in, and at five o
What, you need three hours?
Who're you going with?
clock, when it had become hard to aim properly, the others abandoned their snowball fight and trooped back to the common room. The Fat Lady was sitting in her frame with her friend Violet from downstairs, both of them extremely tipsy, empty boxes of chocolate liqueurs littering the bottom other picture.
"Lairy fights, that
  she giggled when they gave the password, and she swung forward to let them inside.
Harry, Ron, Seamus, Dean, and Neville changed into their dress robes up in their dormitory, all of them looking very self-conscious, but none as much as Ron, who surveyed himself in the long mirror in the corner with an appalled look on his face.  There was just no getting around the fact that his robes looked more like a dress than anything else.  In a desperate attempt to make them look more manly, he used a Severing Charm on the ruff and cuffs.  It worked fairly well; at least he was now lace-free, although he hadn't done a very neat job, and the edges still looked depressingly frayed as the boys set off downstairs.

t work out how you two got the best-looking girls in the year," muttered Dean.
"Animal magnetism," said Ron gloomily, pulling stray threads out of his cuffs.
The common room looked strange, full of people wearing different colors instead of the usual mass of black.  Parvati was waiting for Harry at the foot of the stairs.  She looked very pretty indeed, in robes of shocking pink, with her long dark plait braided with gold, and gold bracelets glimmering at her wrists.  Harry was relieved to see that she wasn
You - er - look nice,
Thanks,
Padma's going to meet you in the entrance hall,
Right,
Where's Hermione?
Shall we go down then, Harry?
Okay,
clock, when the doors to the Great Hall would be thrown open.  Those people who were meeting partners from different Houses were edging through the crowd trying to find one another.  Parvati found her sister, Padma, and led her over to Harry and Ron.
"Hi," said Padma, who was looking just as pretty as Parvati in robes of bright turquoise. She didn
Hi,
Oh no ...
Where is Hermione?
s opinion made him look like a vicar.  Pansy Parkinson in very frilly robes of pale pink was clutching Malfoy
t know.  Over their heads he saw that an area of lawn right in front of the castle had been transformed into a sort of grotto full of fairy lights - meaning hundreds of actual living fairies were sitting in the rosebushes that had been conjured there, and fluttering over the statues of what seemed to be Father Christmas and his reindeer.
Then Professor McGonagall
Champions over here, please!
See you in a minute
t have to talk to them.  His eyes fell instead on the girl next to Krum. His jaw dropped.
It was Hermione.
But she didn
t understand how he hadn
Hi, Harry!
Hi, Parvati!
t the only one either; when the doors to the Great Hall opened, Krum
t seem to be able to find an insult to throw at her.  Ron, however, walked right past Hermione without looking at her.
Once everyone else was settled in the Hall, Professor McGonagall told the champions and their partners to get in line in pairs and to follow her.  They did so, and everyone in the Great Hall applauded as they entered and started walking up toward a large round table at the top of the Hall, where the judges were sitting.
The walls of the Hall had all been covered in sparkling silver frost, with hundreds of garlands of mistletoe and ivy crossing the starry black ceiling.  The House tables had vanished; instead, there were about a hundred smaller, lantern-lit ones, each seating about a dozen people.
Harry concentrated on not tripping over his feet. Parvati seemed to be enjoying herself; she was beaming around at everybody, steering Harry so forcefully that he felt as though he were a show dog she was putting through its paces.  He caught sight of Ron and Padma as he neared the top table.  Ron was watching Hermione pass with narrowed eyes.  Padma was looking sulky.
Dumbledore smiled happily as the champions approached the top table, but Karkaroff wore an expression remarkably like Ron
I've been promoted,
I'm now Mr. Crouch's personal assistant, and I'm here representing him.
Why didn't he come?
t looking forward to being lectured on cauldron bottoms all through dinner.
"I
t well, not well at all. Hasn
s not as young as he was - though still quite brilliant, of course, the mind remains as great as it ever was.  But the World Cup was a fiasco for the whole Ministry, and then, Mr. Crouch suffered a huge personal shock with the misbehavior of that house-elf of his, Blinky, or whatever she was called.  Naturally, he dismissed her immediately afterward, but - well, as I say, he
s found a definite drop in his home comforts since she left.  And then we had the tournament to arrange, and the aftermath of the Cup to deal with - that revolting Skeeter woman buzzing around - no, poor man, he
m just glad he knew he had someone he could rely upon to take his place."
Harry wanted very much to ask whether Mr. Crouch had stopped calling Percy "Weatherby" yet, but resisted the temptation.
There was no food as yet on the glittering golden plates, but small menus were lying in front of each of them.  Harry picked his up uncertainly and looked around - there were no waiters.  Dumbledore, however, looked carefully down at his own menu, then said very clearly to his plate, "Pork chops!"
And pork chops appeared. Getting the idea, the rest of the table placed their orders with their plates too.  Harry glanced up at Hermione to see how she felt about this new and more complicated method of dining - surely it meant plenty of extra work for the house-elves? - but for once, Hermione didn
Veil, ve have a castle also, not as big as this, nor as comfortable, I am thinking,
Ve have just four floors, and the fires are lit only for magical purposes.  But ve have grounds larger even than these - though in vinter, ve have very little daylight, so ve are not enjoying them.  But in summer ve are flying every day, over the lakes and the mountains -
Now, now, Viktor!
t reach his cold eyes, "don

Dumbledore smiled, his eyes twinkling.  
t want visitors."
"Well, Dumbledore," said Karkaroff, displaying his yellowing teeth to their fullest extent, "we are all protective of our private domains, are we not?  Do we not jealously guard the halls of learning that have been entrusted to us?  Are we not right to be proud that we alone know our school


 secrets, Igor," said Dumbledore amicably.  "Only this morning, for instance, I took a wrong turning on the way to the bathroom and found myself in a beautifully proportioned room I have never seen before, containing a really rather magnificent collection of chamber pots.  When I went back to investigate more closely, I discovered that the room had vanished.  But I must keep an eye out for it.  Possibly it is only accessible at five-thirty in the morning.  Or it may only appear at the quarter moon - or when the seeker has an exceptionally full bladder."
Harry snorted into his plate of goulash.  Percy frowned, but Harry could have sworn Dumbledore had given him a very small wink.
Meanwhile Fleur Delacour was criticizing the Hogwarts decorations to Roger Davies.
"Zis is nothing," she said dismissively, looking around at the sparkling walls of the Great Hall.  "At ze Palace of Beauxbatons, we 
uge statues of diamond, glittering around ze place.  And ze food is seemply superb.  And we 
oo serenade us as we eat.  We 
alls, and eef a poltergeist ever entaired into Beauxbatons, 
  She slapped her hand onto the table impatiently.
Roger Davies was watching her talk with a very dazed look on his face, and he kept missing his mouth with his fork.  Harry had the impression that Davies was too busy staring at Fleur to take in a word she was saying.

 he said quickly, slapping his own hand down on the table in imitation of Fleur.  

Harry looked around the Hall.  Hagrid was sitting at one of the other staff tables; he was back in his horrible hairy brown suit and gazing up at the top table.  Harry saw him give a small wave, and looking around, saw Madame Maxime return it, her opals glittering in the candlelight.
Hermione was now teaching Krum to say her name properly; he kept calling her 


 she said slowly and clearly.



 she said, catching Harry's eye and grinning.
When all the food had been consumed, Dumbledore stood up and asked the students to do the same.  Then, with a wave of his wand, all the tables zoomed back along the walls leaving the floor clear, and then he conjured a raised platform into existence along the right wall.  A set of drums, several guitars, a lute, a cello, and some bagpipes were set upon it.
The 
Come on!
We're supposed to dance!
s eye (he could see Seamus and Dean waving at him and sniggering), and next moment, Parvati had seized his hands, placed one around her waist, and was holding the other tightly in hers.
It wasn
Nice socks. Potter,
s robes.
"Oh - yeah, Dobby the house-elf knitted them for me," said Harry, grinning.
"He is so creepy!"  Parvati whispered as Moody clunked away.  "I don

Harry heard the final, quavering note from the bagpipe with relief. The Weird Sisters stopped playing, applause filled the hall once more, and Harry let go of Parvati at once.

s sit down, shall we?"
"Oh - but - this is a really good one!"  Parvati said as the Weird Sisters struck up a new song, which was much faster.
"No, I don
 Harry lied, and he led her away from the dance floor, past Fred and Angelina, who were dancing so exhuberantly that people around them were backing away in fear of injury, and over to the table where Ron and Padma were sitting.

s it going?" Harry asked Ron, sitting down and opening a bottle of butterbeer.
Ron didn
s other side, crossed her arms and legs too, and within minutes was asked to dance by a boy from Beauxbatons.
"You don
 Parvati said.

 said Harry, who was now watching Cho and Cedric.

 snapped Parvati, and she went off with the boy from Beauxbatons. When the song ended, she did not return.
Hermione came over and sat down in Parvati's empty chair. She was a bit pink in the face from dancing.

 said Harry. Ron didn't say anything.

s hot, isn
 said Hermione, fanning herself with her hand.  

Ron gave her a withering look. 
 he said. 
t he asked you to call him Vicky yet?"
Hermione looked at him in surprise. "What
 she said.

t know," said Ron scathingly, "I

Hermione stared at him, then at Harry, who shrugged.



s from Durmstrang!" spat Ron. "He
re -"  Ron was obviously casting around for words strong enough to describe Hermione
fraternizing with the enemy, that's what you're doing!
s mouth fell open.
"Don
 she said after a moment. 
s got a model of him up in their dormitory?"
Ron chose to ignore this. "I s


 said Hermione, the pink patches on her cheeks glowing more brightly. 




t!  If you really want to know, he - he said he
t been able to pluck up the courage!"
Hermione said this very quickly, and blushed so deeply that she was the same color as Parvati
Yeah, well - that's his story,
And what's that supposed to mean?
Obvious, isn't it?  He's Karkaroff's student, isn't he?  He knows who you hang around with. . . . He's just trying to get closer to Harry - get inside information on him - or get near enough to jinx him -
For your information, he hasn't asked me one single thing about Harry, not one -
Then he's hoping you'll help him find out what his egg means! I suppose you've been putting your heads together during those cozy little library sessions -
I'd never help him work out that egg!
Never.  How could you say something like that - I want Harry to win the tournament.  Harry knows that, don't you, Harry?
You've got a funny way of showing it,
This whole tournament's supposed to be about getting to know foreign wizards and making friends with them!
No it isn't!
It's about winning!
Ron,
I haven't got a problem with Hermione coming with Krum -
Why don't you go and find Vicky, he'll be wondering where you are,
Don't call him Vicky!
Are you going to ask me to dance at all?
No,
Fine,
Vare is Herm-own-ninny?
No idea,
Lost her, have you?
Veil, if you see her, tell her I haff drinks,
Made friends with Viktor Krum, have you, Ron?
Excellent!  That's the whole point, you know - international magical cooperation!
s displeasure, Percy now took Padma
s hand and make his way back through the crowds, at which point Fred and George accosted him.
"What do they think they
 Percy hissed, watching Fred and George suspiciously. 

Ludo Bagman shook off Fred and George fairly quickly, however, and, spotting Harry, waved and came over to their table.

t bothering you, Mr. Bagman?" said Percy at once.
"What? Oh not at all, not at all!" said Bagman.  "No, they were just telling me a bit more about those fake wands of theirs.  Wondering if I could advise them on the marketing.  I
s Joke Shop. ..."
Percy didn
s plans had grown even more ambitious lately, if they were hoping to sell to the public.  Bagman opened his mouth to ask Harry something, but Percy diverted him.
"How do you feel the tournament
s quite satisfied - the hitch with the Goblet of Fire" - he glanced at Harry - "was a little unfortunate, of course, but it seems to have gone very smoothly since, don


 Bagman said cheerfully, 
s all been enormous fun.  How
t come."
"Oh I
 said Percy importantly, 
m more than willing to take up the slack.  Of course, it
 - he laughed airily - 
ve had to deal with all sorts of things that have cropped up in his absence - you heard Ali Bashir was caught smuggling a consignment of flying carpets into the country?  And then we
ve got a meeting with their Head of Magical Cooperation in the new year -"
"Let
 Ron muttered to Harry, 

Pretending they wanted more drinks.  Harry and Ron left the table, edged around the dance floor, and slipped out into the entrance hall.  The front doors stood open, and the fluttering fairy lights in the rose garden winked and twinkled as they went down the front steps, where they found themselves surrounded by bushes; winding, ornamental paths; and large stone statues.  Harry could hear splashing water, which sounded like a fountain.  Here and there, people were sitting on carved benches.  He and Ron set off along one of the winding paths through the rosebushes, but they had gone only a short way when they heard an unpleasantly familiar voice.

t see what there is to fuss about, Igor."
"Severus, you cannot pretend this isn
  Karkaroffs voice sounded anxious and hushed, as though keen not to be overheard.  
s been getting clearer and clearer for months.  I am becoming seriously concerned, I can


 said Snapes voice curtly.  

Snape and Karkaroff came around the corner.  Snape had his wand out and was blasting rosebushes apart, his expression most ill-natured.  Squeals issued from many of the bushes, and dark shapes emerged from them.

 Snape snarled as a girl ran past him.  
  as a boy went rushing after her. 
  he added, catching sight of Harry and Ron on the path ahead.  Karkaroff, Harry saw, looked slightly discomposed to see them standing there.  His hand went nervously to his goatee, and he began winding it around his finger.

 Ron told Snape shortly. 


  Snape snarled, and he brushed past them, his long black cloak billowing out behind him.  Karkaroff hurried away after Snape.  Harry and Ron continued down the path.

s got Karkaroff all worried?"  Ron muttered.
"And since when have he and Snape been on first-name terms?"said Harry slowly.
They had reached a large stone reindeer now, over which they could see the sparkling jets of a tall fountain.  The shadowy outlines of two enormous people were visible on a stone bench, watching the water in the moonlight. And then Harry heard Hagrid speak.
"Momen
 he was saying, in an oddly husky voice.
Harry and Ron froze.  This didn't sound like the sort of scene they ought to walk in on, somehow. . . . Harry looked around, back up the path, and saw Fleur Delacour and Roger Davies standing half-concealed in a rosebush nearby.  He tapped Ron on the shoulder and jerked his head toward them, meaning that they could easily sneak off that way without being noticed (Fleur and Davies looked very busy to Harry), but Ron, eyes widening in horror at the sight of Fleur, shook his head vigorously, and pulled Harry deeper into the shadows behind the reindeer.

Agrid?" said Madame Maxime, a purr in her low voice.
Harry definitely didn
t really an option.  Instead he tried to interest himself in a beetle crawling along the stone reindeer
t interesting enough to block out Hagrid
I jus' knew . . . knew you were like me. . . . Was it yer mother or yer father?
I - I don't know what you mean, 'Agrid. ...
It was my mother,
She was one o' the las' ones in Britain. 'Course, I can' remember her too well. . . she left, see.  When I was abou' three.  She wasn' really the maternal sort.  Well. . . it's not in their natures, is it?  Dunno what happened to her . . . might be dead fer all I know. ...
t say anything. And Harry, in spite of himself, took his eyes off the beetle and looked over the top of the reindeer
Me dad was broken-hearted when she wen'.  Tiny little bloke, my dad was.  By the time I was six I could lift him up an' put him on top o' the dresser if he annoyed me.  Used ter make him laugh. . . .
s deep voice broke.  Madame Maxime was listening, motionless, apparently staring at the silvery fountain.  "Dad raised me . . . but he died, o
 after I started school.  Sorta had ter make me own way after that.  Dumbledore was a real help, mind. Very kind ter me, he was. . . ."
Hagrid pulled out a large spotted silk handkerchief and blew his nose heavily.
"So ... anyway . . . enough abou

But Madame Maxime had suddenly got to her feet.

 she said - but whatever the weather was doing, it was nowhere near as cold as her voice.  


 said Hagrid blankly. 
ve - I


 said Madame Maxime, her tone icy.
Harry could have told Hagrid it was best not to answer; he stood there in the shadows gritting his teeth, hoping against hope he wouldn't - but it was no good.  
 course!" said Hagrid.
"
 shrieked Madame Maxime.  Her voice exploded through the peaceful night air like a foghorn; behind him.  Harry heard Fleur and Roger fall out of their rosebush.  
ave nevair been more insulted in my life!  
ave - I 

She stormed away; great multicolored swarms of fairies rose into the air as she passed, angrily pushing aside bushes.  Hagrid was still sitting on the bench, staring after her.  It was much too dark to make out his expression.  Then, after about a minute, he stood up and strode away, not back to the castle, but off out into the dark grounds in the direction of his cabin.

mon," Harry said, very quietly to Ron.  "Let

But Ron didn't move.

s up?" said Harry, looking at him.
Ron looked around at Harry, his expression very serious indeed.
"Did you know?" he whispered. "About Hagrid being half-giant?"
"No," Harry said, shrugging. "So what?"
He knew immediately, from the look Ron was giving him, that he was once again revealing his ignorance of the wizarding world.  Brought up by the Dursleys, there were many things that wizards took for granted that were revelations to Harry, but these surprises had become fewer with each successive year.  Now, however, he could tell that most wizards would not have said "So what?" upon finding out that one of their friends had a giantess for a mother.
"I
 said Ron quietly, 
mon. . .."
Fleur and Roger Davies had disappeared, probably into a more private clump of bushes.  Harry and Ron returned to the Great Hall.  Parvati and Padma were now sitting at a distant table with a whole crowd of Beauxbatons boys, and Hermione was once more dancing with Krum.  Harry and Ron sat down at a table far removed from the dance floor.
"So?" Harry prompted Ron. "What


re . . . they
 Ron struggled for words. 
 he finished lamely.

 Harry said.  
s nothing wrong with Hagrid!"
"I know there isn
 Ron said, shaking his head.  
d got in the way of a bad Engorgement Charm when he was a kid or something.  Didn


s it matter if his mother was a giantess?" said Harry.
"Well... no one who knows him will care, 
ll know he
 said Ron slowly.  
re just vicious, giants.  It
s in their natures, they
t any left in Britain now, though."
"What happened to them?"
"Well, they were dying out anyway, and then loads got themselves killed by Aurors. There


t know who Maxime thinks she
 Harry said, watching Madame Maxime sitting alone at the judges' table, looking very somber.  
s half-giant, she definitely is.  Big bones . .. the only thing that

Harry and Ron spent the rest of the ball discussing giants in their corner, neither of them having any inclination to dance.  Harry tried not to watch Cho and Cedric too much; it gave him a strong desire to kick something.
When the Weird Sisters finished playing at midnight, everyone gave them a last, loud round of applause and started to wend their way into the entrance hall.  Many people were expressing the wish that the ball could have gone on longer, but Harry was perfectly happy to be going to bed; as far as he was concerned, the evening hadn't been much fun.
Out in the entrance hall, Harry and Ron saw Hermione saying good night to Krum before he went back to the Durmstrang ship.  She gave Ron a very cold look and swept past him up the marble staircase without speaking.  Harry and Ron followed her, but halfway up the staircase Harry heard someone calling him.


It was Cedric Diggory.  Harry could see Cho waiting for him in the entrance hall below.

  said Harry coldly as Cedric ran up the stairs toward him.
Cedric looked as though he didn't want to say whatever it was in front of Ron, who shrugged, looking bad-tempered, and continued to climb the stairs.

 Cedric lowered his voice as Ron disappeared.  


 said Harry.





ll help you think. . . . Trust me."
Harry stared at him.
"Tell you what," Cedric said, "use the prefects
s 
  Gotta go ... want to say good night -"
He grinned at Harry again and hurried back down the stairs to Cho.
Harry walked back to Gryffindor Tower alone.  That had been extremely strange advice.  Why would a bath help him to work out what the wailing egg meant?  Was Cedric pulling his leg?  Was he trying to make Harry look like a fool, so Cho would like him even more by comparison?
The Fat Lady and her friend Vi were snoozing in the picture over the portrait hole. Harry had to yell "Fairy lights!" before he woke them up, and when he did, they were extremely irritated.  He climbed into the common room and found Ron and Hermione having a blazing row.  Standing ten feet apart, they were bellowing at each other, each scarlet in the face.
"Well, if you don
t you?"  yelled Hermione; her hair was coming down out of its elegant bun now, and her face was screwed up in anger.
"Oh yeah?" Ron yelled back. "What


s a ball, ask me before someone else does, and not as a last resort!"
Ron mouthed soundlessly like a goldfish out of water as Hermione turned on her heel and stormed up the girls
Well,
well - that just proves - completely missed the point -
t say anything.  He liked being back on speaking terms with Ron too much to speak his mind right now - but he somehow thought that Hermione had gotten the point much better than Ron had.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR - RITA SKEETER
s hair was bushy again; she confessed to Harry that she had used liberal amounts of Sleekeazy
but it's way too much bother to do every day,
t seem to find the news that Hagrid was a half-giant nearly as shocking as Ron did.
"Well, I thought he must be," she said, shrugging. "I knew he couldn
re about twenty feet tall. But honestly, all this hysteria about giants. They can
s the same sort of prejudice that people have toward werewolves. . . . It
t it?"
Ron looked as though he would have liked to reply scathingly, but perhaps he didn
t looking.
It was time now to think of the homework they had neglected during the first week of the holidays.  Everybody seemed to be feeling rather flat now that Christmas was over - everybody except Harry, that is, who was starting (once again) to feel slightly nervous.
The trouble was that February the twenty-fourth looked a lot closer from this side of Christmas, and he still hadn
t. He tried asking the egg questions, shouting over all the wailing, but nothing happened. He even threw the egg across the room - though he hadn
s idea of a fair exchange had been to tell Harry to take a bath.  Well, he didn
t see out of them in Herbology.  Nobody was looking forward to Care of Magical Creatures much in this weather, though as Ron said, the skrewts would probably warm them up nicely, either by chasing them, or blasting off so forcefully that Hagrid
s cabin, however, they found an elderly witch with closely cropped gray hair and a very prominent chin standing before his front door.
"Hurry up, now, the bell rang five minutes ago," she barked at them as they struggled toward her through the snow.
"Who
 said Ron, staring at her.  
 

 she said briskly. 
 

s Hagrid?" Harry repeated loudly. 
"He is indisposed," said Professor Grubbly-Plank shortly. 
Soft and unpleasant laughter reached Harrys ears. He turned; Draco Malfoy and the rest of the Slytherins were joining the class.  All of them looked gleeful, and none of them looked surprised to see Professor Grubbly-Plank.
"This way, please," said Professor Grubbly-Plank, and she strode off around the paddock where the Beauxbatons horses were shivering.  Harry, Ron, and Hermione followed her, looking back over their shoulders at Hagrid
What's wrong with Hagrid?
Never you mind,
I do mind, though,
What's up with him?
t hear him.  She led them past the paddock where the huge Beauxbatons horses were standing, huddled against the cold, and toward a tree on the edge of the forest, where a large and beautiful unicorn was tethered.
Many of the girls "ooooohed!" at the sight of the unicorn.
"Oh it
 whispered Lavender Brown.  
re supposed to be really hard to catch!"
The unicorn was so brightly white it made the snow all around look gray.  It was pawing the ground nervously with its golden hooves and throwing back its horned head.
"Boys keep back!" barked Professor Grubbly-Plank, throwing out an arm and catching Harry hard in the chest.  "They prefer the woman

She and the girls walked slowly forward toward the unicorn, leaving the boys standing near the paddock fence, watching.  The moment Professor Grubbly-Plank was out of earshot. Harry turned to Ron.

you reckons wrong with him? You don


t been attacked, Potter, if that
re thinking," said Malfoy softly. "No, he


you mean?"  said Harry sharply.
Malfoy put his hand inside the pocket of his robes and pulled out a folded page of newsprint.
"There you go," he said. "Hate to break it to you. Potter. ..."
He smirked as Harry snatched the page, unfolded it, and read it, with Ron, Seamus, Dean, and Neville looking over his shoulder.  It was an article topped with a picture of Hagrid looking extremely shifty.

DUMBLEDORE
Mad-Eye
s well-known habit of attacking anybody who makes a sudden movement in his presence.  Mad-Eye Moody, however, looks responsible and kindly when set beside the part-human Dumbledore employs to teach Care of Magical Creatures.
Rubeus Hagrid, who admits to being expelled from Hogwarts in his third year, has enjoyed the position of gamekeeper at the school ever since, a job secured for him by Dumbledore.  Last year, however, Hagrid used his mysterious influence over the headmaster to secure the additional post of Care of Magical Creatures teacher, over the heads of many better-qualified candidates.
An alarmingly large and ferocious-looking man, Hagrid has been using his newfound authority to terrify the students in his care with a succession of horrific creatures. While Dumbledore turns a blind eye, Hagrid has maimed several pupils during a series of lessons that many admit to being "very frightening."

 says Draco Malfoy, a fourth-year student. 
re just too scared to say anything."
Hagrid has no intention of ceasing his campaign of intimidation, however. In conversation with a Daily Prophet reporter last month, he admitted breeding creatures he has dubbed "Blast-Ended Skrewts," highly dangerous crosses between manti-cores and fire-crabs.  The creation of new breeds of magical creature is, of course, an activity usually closely observed by the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures. Hagrid, however, considers himself to be above such petty restrictions.
"I was just having some fun," he says, before hastily changing the subject.
As if this were not enough, the Daily Prophet has now unearthed evidence that Hagrid is not - as he has always pretended - a pure-blood wizard. He is not, in fact, even pure human. His mother, we can exclusively reveal, is none other than the giantess Fridwulfa, whose whereabouts are currently unknown.
Bloodthirsty and brutal, the giants brought themselves to the point of extinction by warring amongst themselves during the last century. The handful that remained joined the ranks of He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, and were responsible for some of the worst mass Muggle killings of his reign of terror.
While many of the giants who served He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named were killed by Aurors working against the Dark Side, Fridwulfa was not among them. It is possible she escaped to one of the giant communities still existing in foreign mountain ranges. If his antics during Care of Magical Creatures lessons are any guide, however, Frid-wulfa
s fall from power - thereby driving Hagrid
s supporters, into hiding. Perhaps Harry Potter is unaware of the unpleasant truth about his large friend - but Albus Dumbledore surely has a duty to ensure that Harry Potter, along with his fellow students, is warned about the dangers of associating with part-giants.

Harry finished reading and looked up at Ron, whose mouth was hanging open.
"How did she find out?" he whispered.
But that wasn
What d'you mean, 'we all hate Hagrid'?
What's this rubbish about him
getting a bad bite off a flobberworm?  They haven't even got teeth!
Well, I think this should put an end to the oaf's teaching career,
Half-giant. . . and there was me thinking he'd just swallowed a bottle of Skele-Gro when he was young. ... None of the mummies and daddies are going to like this at all. ... They'll be worried he'll eat their kids, ha, ha. ...
You-
Are you paying attention over there?
I hope she stays, that woman!
That's more what I thought Care of Magical Creatures would be like . . . proper creatures like unicorns, not monsters. . . .
What about Hagrid?
What about him?
He can still be gamekeeper, can't he?
That was a really good lesson,
I didn't know half the things Professor Grubbly-Plank told us about uni -
Look at this!
s nose.
Hermione
s.
"How did that horrible Skeeter woman find out? You don


 said Harry, leading the way over to the Gryffindor table and throwing himself into a chair, furious.  
t give her loads of horrible stuff about me, she went ferreting around to get him back."
"Maybe she heard him telling Madame Maxime at the ball," said Hermione quietly.
"We
 said Ron. 
s not supposed to come into school anymore, Hagrid said Dumbledore banned her. . . ."
"Maybe she
 said Harry, ladling chicken casserole onto his plate and splashing it everywhere in his anger.  
d do, isn


 said Hermione.  

t trying to hear him!" said Ron indignantly.  "We didn


ve got to go and see him," said Harry. "This evening, after Divination. Tell him we want him back . . . you do want him back?" he shot at Hermione.
"I - well, I
t make a nice change, having a proper Care of Magical Creatures lesson for once - but I do want Hagrid back, of course I do!"  Hermione added hastily, quailing under Harry
s cabin.  They knocked, and Fang
Hagrid, it's us!
Open up!
t answer.  They could hear Fang scratching at the door, whining, but it didn
What's he avoiding us for?
He surely doesn't think we'd care about him being half-giant?
t see a sign of him all week.  He didn
t see him going about his gamekeeper duties on the grounds, and Professor Grubbly-Plank continued to take the Care of Magical Creatures classes.  Malfoy was gloating at every possible opportunity.
"Missing your half-breed pal?" he kept whispering to Harry whenever there was a teacher around, so that he was safe from Harry
Missing the elephant-man?
I just thought you'd want to take advantage of the common room being quiet,
Really get to work on that egg.
Oh I - I reckon I've got a pretty good idea what it's about now,
Have you really?
Well done!
He's mad!
It must be freezing, it's January!
It's a lot colder where he comes from,
I suppose it feels quite warm to him.
Yeah, but there's still the giant squid,
t sound anxious - if anything, he sounded hopeful.  Hermione noticed his tone of voice and frowned.
"He
 she said.  
s not at all like you

Ron said nothing.  He hadn't mentioned Viktor Krum since the ball, but Harry had found a miniature arm under his bed on Boxing Day, which had looked very much as though it had been snapped off a small model figure wearing Bulgarian Quidditch robes.
Harry kept his eyes skinned for a sign of Hagrid all the way down the slushy High Street, and suggested a visit to the Three Broomsticks once he had ascertained that Hagrid was not in any of the shops.
The pub was as crowded as ever, but one quick look around at all the tables told Harry that Hagrid wasn't there.  Heart sinking, he went up to the bar with Ron and Hermione, ordered three butterbeers from Madam Rosmerta, and thought gloomily that he might just as well have stayed behind and listened to the egg wailing after all.

t he ever go into the office?" Hermione whispered suddenly. "Look!"
She pointed into the mirror behind the bar, and Harry saw Ludo Bagman reflected there, sitting in a shadowy corner with a bunch of goblins.  Bagman was talking very fast in a low voice to the goblins, all of whom had their arms crossed and were looking rather menacing.
It was indeed odd. Harry thought, that Bagman was here at the Three Broomsticks on a weekend when there was no Triwizard event, and therefore no judging to be done.  He watched Bagman in the mirror.  He was looking strained again, quite as strained as he had that night in the forest before the Dark Mark had appeared.  But just then Bagman glanced over at the bar, saw Harry, and stood up.
"In a moment, in a moment!"  Harry heard him say brusquely to the goblins, and Bagman hurried through the pub toward Harry, his boyish grin back in place.
"Harry!" he said. "How are you? Been hoping to run into you! Everything going all right?"
"Fine, thanks," said Harry.
"Wonder if I could have a quick, private word, Harry?"  said Bagman eagerly.  "You couldn


 said Ron, and he and Hermione went off to find a table.
Bagman led Harry along the bar to the end furthest from Madam Rosmerta.

d congratulate you again on your splendid performance against that Horntail, Harry," said Bagman. "Really superb."
"Thanks," said Harry, but he knew this couldn
t seem in any particular rush to spill the beans, though. Harry saw him glance into the mirror over the bar at the goblins, who were all watching him and Harry in silence through their dark, slanting eyes.
"Absolute nightmare," said Bagman to Harry in an undertone, noticing Harry watching the goblins too.  "Their English isn
s like being back with all the Bulgarians at the Quidditch World Cup . . . but at least they used sign language another human could recognize.  This lot keep gabbling in Gobblede-gook . . . and I only know one word of Gobbledegook.  Bladvak.  It means 
  I don
m threatening them."
He gave a short, booming laugh.
"What do they want?" Harry said, noticing how the goblins were still watching Bagman very closely.
"Er - well. . ." said Bagman, looking suddenly nervous.  "They ... er ... they


 said Harry.  
s at the Ministry in London, isn


ve no idea where he is," said Bagman.  "He
s ill.  Apparently he
s still poking around everywhere she can, and I
d work up Bartys illness into something sinister.  Probably say he


 Harry asked.

 said Bagman, looking strained again. 
ve got people looking, of course ..." (About time, thought Harry) "and it
s house to go south and see an aunt. . . and she seems to have vanished without trace en route.  Blowed if I can see where she
t seem the type to elope, for instance . . . but still. . . . What are we doing, talking about goblins and Bertha Jorkins?  I really wanted to ask you" - he lowered his voice - "how are you getting on with your golden egg?"
"Er . . . not bad," Harry said untruthfully.
Bagman seemed to know he wasn
Listen, Harry,
I feel very bad about all this . . . you were thrown into this tournament, you didn't volunteer for it... and if. . .
if I can help at all... a prod in the right direction . . . I've taken a liking to you . . . the way you got past that dragon! . . . well, just say the word.
s round, rosy face and his wide, baby-blue eyes.
"We
t we?" he said, careful to keep his voice casual and not sound as though he was accusing the head of the Department of Magical Games and Sports of breaking the rules.
"Well. . . well, yes," said Bagman impatiently, "but - come on. Harry - we all want a Hogwarts victory, don


 Harry said.
The smallest of frowns creased Bagman's smooth face.  
t," he said. "I - well, like I say, I
d offer ..."
"Well, thanks," said Harry, "but I think I

He wasn't entirely sure why he was refusing Bagman's help, except that Bagman was almost a stranger to him, and accepting his assistance would feel somehow much more like cheating than asking advice from Ron, Hermione, or Sirius.
Bagman looked almost affronted, but couldn't say much more as Fred and George turned up at that point.

 said Fred brightly. 


 said Bagman, with a last disappointed glance at Harry, 

Fred and George looked quite as disappointed as Bagman, who was surveying Harry as though he had let him down badly.

 he said. 

He hurried out of the pub.  The goblins all slid off their chairs and exited after him. Harry went to rejoin Ron and Hermione.  

 Ron said, the moment Harry had sat down.

 said Harry.

t be doing that!" said Hermione, looking very shocked.  "He
ve already worked it out - haven


 said Harry.

t think Dumbledore would like it if he knew Bagman was trying to persuade you to cheat!"  said Hermione, still looking deeply disapproving.  "I hope he


s not, I asked," said Harry.
"Who cares if Diggorys getting help?" said Ron. Harry privately agreed.
"Those goblins didn
 said Hermione, sipping her butterbeer.  


 said Harry. 
s still ill. Hasn


 said Ron. 
ll be made head of the Department of International Magical Cooperation."
Hermione gave Ron a don
Funny, goblins looking for Mr. Crouch. . . . They'd normally deal with the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures.
Crouch can speak loads of different languages, though,
Maybe they need an interpreter.
Worrying about poor 'ickle goblins, now, are you?
Thinking of starting up S.P.U.G. or something?  Society for the Protection of Ugly Goblins?
Ha, ha, ha,
Goblins don't need protection.  Haven't you been listening to what Professor Binns has been telling us about goblin rebellions?
No,
Well, the/re quite capable of dealing with wizards,
They're very clever.  They're not like house-elves, who never stick up for themselves.
Uh-oh,
... didn't seem very keen to talk to us, did he, Bozo?  Now, why would that be, do you think?  And what's he doing with a pack of goblins in tow anyway?  Showing them the sights . .. what nonsense ... he was always a bad liar.  Reckon something's up?  Think we should do a bit of digging?  'Disgraced Ex-Head of Magical Games and Sports, Ludo Bagman . . .' Snappy start to a sentence, Bozo - we just need to find a story to fit it -
Trying to ruin someone else's life?
s eyes widened behind her jeweled spectacles as she saw who had spoken.
"Harry!" she said, beaming. "How lovely! Why don


t come near you with a ten-foot broomstick," said Harry furiously.  "What did you do that to Hagrid for, eh?"
Rita Skeeter raised her heavily penciled eyebrows.
"Our readers have a right to the truth, Harry. I am merely doing my-"
"Who cares if he
  Harry shouted.  
s nothing wrong with him!"
The whole pub had gone very quiet. Madam Rosmerta was staring over from behind the bar, apparently oblivious to the fact that the flagon she was filling with mead was overflowing.
Rita Skeeters smile flickered very slightly, but she hitched it back almost at once; she snapped open her crocodile-skin handbag, pulled out her Quick-Quotes Quill, and said, "How about giving me an interview about the Hagrid you know. Harry?  The man behind the muscles? Your unlikely friendship and the reasons behind it.  Would you call him a father substitute?"
Hermione stood up very abruptly, her butterbeer clutched in her hand as though it were a grenade.
"You horrible woman," she said, through gritted teeth, "you don


t talk about things you don
 said Rita Skeeter coldly, her eyes hardening as they fell on Hermione.  
 she added, eyeing Hermione's bushy hair.

s go," said Hermione, "c

They left; many people were staring at them as they went.  Harry glanced back as they reached the door.  Rita Skeeter's Quick-Quotes Quill was out; it was zooming backward and forward over a piece of parchment on the table.

ll be after you next, Hermione," said Ron in a low and worried voice as they walked quickly back up the street.
"Let her try!" said Hermione defiantly; she was shaking with rage. "I
ll get her back for this.  First Harry, then Hagrid ..."
"You don
 said Ron nervously. 
m serious, Hermione, she


t read the Daily Prophet.  She can
  said Hermione, now striding along so fast that it was all Harry and Ron could do to keep up with her.  The last time Harry had seen Hermione in a rage like this, she had hit Draco Malfoy around the face.  
t hiding anymore!  He should never have let that excuse for a human being upset him!  Come on!"
Breaking into a run, she led them all the way back up the road, through the gates flanked by winged boars, and up through the grounds to Hagrid
Hagrid!
Hagrid, that's enough!  We know you're in there!  Nobody cares if your mum was a giantess, Hagrid!  You can't let that foul Skeeter woman do this to you!  Hagrid, get out here, you're just being -
About t-!
Good afternoon,
We-er-we wanted to see Hagrid,
Yes, I surmised as much,
Why don't you come in?
Oh . . . um ... okay,
Hi, Hagrid,
'Lo,
More tea, I think,
Did you by any chance hear what Miss Granger was shouting, Hagrid?
Hermione, Harry, and Ron still seem to want to know you, judging by the way they were attempting to break down the door.
Of course we still want to know you!
You don't think anything that Skeeter cow - sorry, Professor,
I have gone temporarily deaf and haven't any idea what you said. Harry,
Er-right,
I just meant-Hagrid, how could you think we'd care what that-woman-wrote about you?
s beetle-black eyes and fell slowly into his tangled beard.
"Living proof of what I
 said Dumbledore, still looking carefully up at the ceiling.  


em," said Hagrid hoarsely. "Not all of 


m afraid you will be in this cabin for a very long time," said Dumbledore, now peering sternly over his half-moon spectacles.  "Not a week has passed since I became headmaster of this school when I haven


re not half-giant!"  said Hagrid croakily.
"Hagrid, look what I
  Harry said furiously.  


 said Professor Dumbledore.  
m not entirely sure he can read, so that may not have been bravery. . .."
"Come back and teach, Hagrid," said Hermione quietly, "please come back, we really miss you."
Hagrid gulped.  More tears leaked out down his cheeks and into his tangled beard.
Dumbledore stood up.  "I refuse to accept your resignation, Hagrid, and I expect you back at work on Monday," he said.  "You will join me for breakfast at eight-thirty in the Great Hall.  No excuses.  Good afternoon to you all."
Dumbledore left the cabin, pausing only to scratch Fangs ears.  When the door had shut behind him, Hagrid began to sob into his dustbin-lid-sized hands.  Hermione kept patting his arm, and at last, Hagrid looked up, his eyes very red indeed, and said, "Great man, Dumbledore . . . great man . .."
"Yeah, he is," said Ron. "Can I have one of these cakes, Hagrid?" 
"Help yerself," said Hagrid, wiping his eyes on the back of his hand.  "Ar, he
, o
re all righ
 dad woulda bin ashamed o
ve bin behavin
 More tears leaked out, but he wiped them away more forcefully, and said, 

Hagrid got up, went over to his dresser, opened a drawer, and pulled out a picture of a short wizard with Hagrid's crinkled black eyes, beaming as he sat on top of Hagrid's shoulder. Hagrid was a good seven or eight feet tall, judging by the apple tree beside him, but his face was beardless, young, round, and smooth - he looked hardly older than eleven.

 after I got inter Hogwarts," Hagrid croaked.  "Dad was dead chuffed ... thought I migh
cos me mum ... well, anyway.  


em second chances ... tha
 from other heads, see.  He
long as they
 ... well... all tha
s some who
s some who
 say - I am what I am, an
m not ashamed.  
 my ol
there
ll hold it against you, but they
 with.
 he was right.  I
m not botherin
ll give her big bones."
Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one another nervously; Harry would rather have taken fifty Blast-Ended Skrewts for a walk than admit to Hagrid that he had overheard him talking to Madame Maxime, but Hagrid was still talking, apparently unaware that he had said anything odd.
"Yeh know wha, Harry?" he said, looking up from the photograph of his father, his eyes very bright, "when I firs
 me a bit.  Mum an
 you was feelin
 fit in at Hogwarts, remember?  Not sure yeh were really up to it... an

He looked at Harry for a moment and then said, very seriously, 
d love.  Harry?  I
d show 
 have ter be pureblood ter do it.  Yeh don have ter be ashamed of what yeh are.  It
em Dumbledore
s got it righ
 anyone in as long as they can do magic.  How you doin


 said Harry. 

Hagrid's miserable face broke into a wide, watery smile.

s my boy. . . you show 
em.  Beat 

Lying to Hagrid wasn't quite like lying to anyone else.  Harry went back to the castle later that afternoon with Ron and Hermione, unable to banish the image of the happy expression on Hagrid's whiskery face as he had imagined Harry winning the tournament.  The incomprehensible egg weighed more heavily than ever on Harrys conscience that evening, and by the time he had got into bed, he had made up his mind - it was time to shelve his pride and see if Cedric's hint was worth anything.
CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE - THE EGG AND THE EYE

Harry had no idea how long a bath he would need to work out the secret of the golden egg, he decided to do it at night, when he would be able to take as much time as he wanted. Reluctant though he was to accept more favors from Cedric, he also decided to use the prefects' bathroom; far fewer people were allowed in there, so it was much less likely that he would be disturbed.
Harry planned his excursion carefully, because he had been caught out of bed and out-of-bounds by Filch the caretaker in the middle of the night once before, and had no desire to repeat the experience.  The Invisibility Cloak would, of course, be essential, and as an added precaution, Harry thought he would take the Marauders Map, which, next to the cloak, was the most useful aid to rule-breaking Harry owned.  The map showed the whole of Hogwarts, including its many shortcuts and secret passageways and, most important of all, it revealed the people inside the castle as minuscule, labeled dots, moving around the corridors, so that Harry would be forewarned if somebody was approaching the bathroom.
On Thursday night, Harry sneaked up to bed, put on the cloak, crept back downstairs, and, just as he had done on the night when Hagrid had shown him the dragons, waited for the portrait hole to open.  This time it was Ron who waited outside to give the Fat Lady the password (
), 
 Ron muttered, climbing into the room as Harry crept out past him.
It was awkward moving under the cloak tonight, because Harry had the heavy egg under one arm and the map held in front of his nose with the other. However, the moonlit corridors were empty and silent, and by checking the map at strategic intervals, Harry was able to ensure that he wouldn't run into anyone he wanted to avoid.  When he reached the statue of Boris the Bewildered, a lost-looking wizard with his gloves on the wrong hands, he located the right door, leaned close to it, and muttered the password, 
 just as Cedric had told him.
The door creaked open. Harry slipped inside, bolted the door behind him, and pulled off the Invisibility Cloak, looking around.
His immediate reaction was that it would be worth becoming a prefect just to be able to use this bathroom.  It was softly lit by a splendid candle-filled chandelier, and everything was made of white marble, including what looked like an empty, rectangular swimming pool sunk into the middle of the floor.  About a hundred golden taps stood all around the pools edges, each with a differently colored Jewel set into its handle.  There was also a diving board.  Long white linen curtains hung at the windows; a large pile of fluffy white towels sat in a corner, and there was a single golden-framed painting on the wall.  It featured a blonde mermaid who
was fast asleep on a rock, her long hair over her face.  It fluttered every time she snored.
Harry moved forward, looking around, his footsteps echoing off the walls.  Magnificent though the bathroom was - and quite keen though he was to try out a few of those taps - now he was here he couldn't quite suppress the feeling that Cedric might have been having him on. How on earth was this supposed to help solve the mystery of the egg?  Nevertheless, he put one of the Huffy towels, the cloak, the map, and the egg at the side of the swimming-pool-sized bath, then knelt down and turned on a few of the taps.
He could tell at once that they carried different sorts of bubble bath mixed with the water, though it wasn't bubble bath as Harry had ever experienced it.  One tap gushed pink and blue bubbles the size of footballs; another poured ice-white foam so thick that Harry thought it would have supported his weight if he'd cared to test it; a third sent heavily perfumed purple clouds hovering over the surface of the water.  Harry amused himself for awhile turning the taps on and off, particularly enjoying the effect of one whose jet bounced off the surface of the water in large arcs.  Then, when the deep pool was full of hot water, foam, and bubbles, which took a very short time considering its size, Harry turned off all the taps, pulled off his pajamas, slippers, and dressing gown, and slid into the water.
It was so deep that his feet barely touched the bottom, and he actually did a couple of lengths before swimming back to the side and treading water, staring at the egg.  Highly enjoyable though it was to swim in hot and foamy water with clouds of different-colored steam wafting all around him, no stroke of brilliance came to him, no sudden burst of understanding.
Harry stretched out his arms, lifted the egg in his wet hands, and opened it.  The wailing, screeching sound filled the bathroom, echoing and reverberating off the marble walls, but it sounded just as incomprehensible as ever, if not more so with all the echoes.  He snapped it shut again, worried that the sound would attract Filch, wondering whether that hadn't been Cedric's plan - and then, making him jump so badly that he dropped the egg, which clattered away across the bathroom floor, someone spoke.

d try putting it in the water, if I were you."
Harry had swallowed a considerable amount of bubbles in shock.  He stood up, sputtering, and saw the ghost of a very glum-looking girl sitting cross-legged on top of one of the taps.  It was Moaning Myrtle, who was usually to be heard sobbing in the S-bend of a toilet three floors below.
"Myrtle!"  Harry said in outrage, "I
m not wearing anything!"
The foam was so dense that this hardly mattered, but he had a nasty feeling that Myrtle had been spying on him from out of one of the taps ever since he had arrived.
"I closed my eyes when you got in," she said, blinking at him through her thick spectacles. "You haven


 said Harry, bending his knees slightly, just to make absolutely sure Myrtle couldn't see anything but his head, 
m not supposed to come into your bathroom, am I? It
 one."
"You didn
 said Myrtle miserably. 

This was true, though only because Harry, Ron, and Hermione had found Myrtle's out-of-order toilets a convenient place to brew Polyjuice Potion in secret - a forbidden potion that had turned him and Ron into living replicas of Crabbe and Goyle for an hour, so that they could sneak into the Slytherin common room.

 said Harry, which was half-true; Percy had once caught him coming out of Myrtles bathroom.  
d better not come back after that."
"Oh ... I see ..." said Myrtle, picking at a spot on her chin in a morose sort of way. "Well... anyway... I
s what Cedric Diggory did."
"Have you been spying on him too?"  said Harry indignantly.  "What d


 said Myrtle, rather slyly, 
ve never come out to speak to anyone before."
"I
 said Harry darkly.  

He made sure Myrtle had her glasses well covered before hoisting himself out of the bath, wrapping the towel firmly around his waist, and going to retrieve the egg.  Once he was back in the water, Myrtle peered through her fingers and said, 

Harry lowered the egg beneath the foamy surface and opened it... and this time, it did not wail.  A gurgling song was coming out of it, a song whose words he couldnt distinguish through the water.

 said Myrtle, who seemed to be thoroughly enjoying bossing him around.  

Harry took a great breath and slid under the surface - and now, sitting on the marble bottom of the bubble-filled bath, he heard a chorus of eerie voices singing to him from the open egg in his hands:


ll sorely miss,
An hour long you
s black,
Too late, it


Harry let himself float back upward and broke the bubbly surface, shaking his hair out of his eyes.

 said Myrtle.

Come seek us where our voices sound .. .

He sank back beneath the water.  It took three more underwater renditions of the egg's song before Harry had it memorized; then he trod water for a while, thinking hard, while Myrtle sat and watched him.

ve got to go and look for people who can
 he said slowly. 


t you?"
He had never seen Moaning Myrtle so cheerful, apart from the day when a dose of PolyJuice Potion had given Hermione the hairy face and tail of a cat.  Harry stared around the bathroom, thinking ... if the voices could only be heard underwater, then it made sense for them to belong to underwater creatures.  He ran this theory past Myrtle, who smirked at him.
"Well, thats what Diggory thought," she said. "He lay there talking to himself for ages about it.  Ages and ages . . . nearly all the bubbles had gone. ..."
"Underwater ..." Harry said slowly. "Myrtle . . . what lives in the lake, apart from the giant squid?"
"Oh all sorts," she said. "I sometimes go down there . . . sometimes don
m not expecting it...."
Trying not to think about Moaning Myrtle zooming down a pipe to the lake with the contents of a toilet.  Harry said, "Well, does anything in there have a human voice?  Hang on -"
Harry
Myrtle, there aren't merpeople in there, are there?
Oooh, very good,
it took Diggory much longer than that!  And that was with her awake too
giggling and showing off and flashing her fins.. ..
Thats it, isn't it?
The second tasks to go and find the merpeople in the lake and ... and ...
t a very good swimmer; he
t bothered to give him any.  A couple of lengths of this bath were all very well, but that lake was very large, and very deep . . . and merpeople would surely live right at the bottom. . . .
"Myrtle," Harry said slowly, "how am I supposed to breathe?"
At this, Myrtle
Tactless!
What's tactless?
Talking about breathing in front of me!
When I can't. . . when I haven't. . . not for ages ...
Sorry,
I didn't mean - I just forgot. . .
Oh yes, very easy to forget Myrtle's dead,
Nobody missed me even when I was alive.  Took them hours and hours to find my body - I know, I was sitting there waiting for them.  Olive Hornby came into the bathroom - Are you in here again, sulking, Myrtle?'  she said, 'because Professor Dippet asked me to look for you -' And then she saw my body . . . ooooh, she didn't forget it until her dying day, I made sure of that... followed her around and reminded her, I did. I remember at her brother's wedding -
t listening; he was thinking about the merpeople
We've taken what you II sorely miss.
--and then, of course, she went to the Ministry of Magic to stop me stalking her, so I had to come back here and live in my toilet.
Good,
Well, I'm a lot further on than I was. . . . Shut your eyes again, will you?  I'm getting out.
Will you come and visit me in my bathroom again sometime?
Er . . . I'll try,
d be visiting Myrtle
See you.  Myrtle... thanks for your help.
Bye, 'bye,
t labeled "Severus Snape" ... it was Bartemius Crouch.
Harry stared at the dot. Mr. Crouch was supposed to be too ill to go to work or to come to the Yule Ball - so what was he doing, sneaking into Hogwarts at one o
t seem in character, somehow, for correct, law-abiding Mr. Crouch to be sneaking around somebody else
t reach it.
The golden egg fell through the tapestry at the bottom of the staircase, burst open, and began wailing loudly in the corridor below.  Harry pulled out his wand and struggled to touch the Marauder s Map, to wipe it blank, but it was too far away to reach -
Pulling the cloak back over himself Harry straightened up, listening hard with his eyes screwed up with fear. . . and, almost immediately -
"PEEVES!"
It was the unmistakable hunting cry of Filch the caretaker.  Harry could hear his rapid, shuffling footsteps coming nearer and nearer, his wheezy voice raised in fury.
"What
ll have you, Peeves, I
ll... and what is this?"
Filch
s Map . . . and Invisibility Cloak or not, the map would show  "Harry Potter" standing exactly where he was.
"Egg?"  Filch said quietly at the foot of the stairs.  "My sweet!" - Mrs. Norris was obviously with him - "This is a Triwizard clue!  This belongs to a school champion!"
Harry felt sick; his heart was hammering very fast -
"PEEVES!"  Filch roared gleefully.  "You

He ripped back the tapestry below, and Harry saw his horrible, pouchy face and bulging, pale eyes staring up the dark and (to Filch) deserted staircase.

  he said softly.  
m coming to get you, Peeves. . . . You
ll have you out of here for this, you filthy, pilfering poltergeist. ..."
Filch started to climb the stairs, his scrawny, dust-colored cat at his heels.  Mrs. Morris
Filch? Whats going on?
s situation worse:  Snape.  He was wearing a long gray nightshirt and he looked livid.
"Its Peeves, Professor," Filch whispered malevolently.  "He threw this egg down the stairs."
Snape climbed up the stairs quickly and stopped beside Filch.  Harry gritted his teeth, convinced his loudly thumping heart would give him away at any second. . . .
"Peeves?" said Snape softly, staring at the egg in Filch
But Peeves couldn't get into my office. . . .
This egg was in your office. Professor?
Of course not,
I heard banging and wailing -
Yes, Professor, that was the egg -
- I was coming to investigate -
- Peeves threw it. Professor -
- and when I passed my office, I saw that the torches were lit and a cupboard door was ajar!  Somebody has been searching it!
t -" 
"I know he couldn
 Snape snapped again. 
  Snape looked up the stairs, straight through Harry, and then down into the corridor below.  



Filch looked yearningly up the stairs, right through Harry, who could see that he was very reluctant to forgo the chance of cornering Peeves.  Go, Harry pleaded with him silently, go with Snape . . . go. . . Mrs. Norris was peering around Filch's legs.... Harry had the distinct impression that she could smell him.. . . Why had he filled that bath with so much perfumed foam?

 said Filch plaintively, 


t give a damn about that wretched poltergeist; it
s -"
Clunk. Clunk. Clunk.
Snape stopped talking very abruptly.  He and Filch both looked down at the foot of the stairs.  Harry saw Mad-Eye Moody limp into sight through the narrow gap between their heads. Moody was wearing his old traveling cloak over his nightshirt and leaning on his staff as usual.
"Pajama party, is it?"  he growled up the stairs.
"Professor Snape and I heard noises, Professor," said Filch at once.  "Peeves the Poltergeist, throwing things around as usual - and then Professor Snape discovered that someone had broken into his off -"
"Shut up!"  Snape hissed to Filch.
Moody took a step closer to the foot of the stairs.  Harry saw Moodys magical eye travel over Snape, and then, unmistakably, onto himself.
Harrys heart gave a horrible jolt. Moody could see through Invisibility Cloaks... he alone could see the full strangeness of the scene:
Snape in his nightshirt, Filch clutching the egg, and he, Harry, trapped in the stairs behind them.  Moody
s eyes.  Then Moody closed his mouth and turned his blue eye upon Snape again.  
"Did I hear that correctly, Snape?" he asked slowly. "Someone broke into your office?"
"It is unimportant," said Snape coldly.  "On the contrary," growled Moody, "it is very important.  Who


 said Snape.  Harry could see a vein flickering horribly on Snape's greasy temple.  


 said Moody.  

Harry saw the edge of Snapes sallow face turn a nasty brick color, the vein in his temple pulsing more rapidly.

m hiding nothing, Moody," he said in a soft and dangerous voice, "as you

Moodys face twisted into a smile. 
s privilege, Snape. Dumbledore told me to keep an eye -"
"Dumbledore happens to trust me," said Snape through clenched teeth.  "I refuse to believe that he gave you orders to search my office!"
"Course Dumbledore trusts you," growled Moody.  "Hes a trusting man, isn
t come off, Snape.  Spots that never come off, d

Snape suddenly did something very strange.  He seized his left forearm convulsively with his right hand, as though something on it had hurt him.
Moody laughed. 


t have the authority to send me anywhere!"  Snape hissed, letting go of his arm as though angry with himself.  "I have as much right to prowl this school after dark as you do!"
"Prowl away," said Moody, but his voice was full of menace.  "I look forward to meeting you in a dark corridor some time.... You

With a stab of horror. Harry saw Moody point at the Marauders Map, still lying on the staircase six steps below him.  As Snape and Filch both turned to look at it, Harry threw caution to the winds; he raised his arms under the cloak and waved furiously at Moody to attract his attention, mouthing 
s mine!  Mine!"
Snape had reached out for it, a horrible expression of dawning comprehension on his face -
"Accio Parchment!"
The map flew up into the air, slipped through Snapes outstretched fingers, and soared down the stairs into Moodys hand.
"My mistake," Moody said calmly.  "It
ve dropped it earlier -"
But Snape
s arms to the map in Moodys hand, and Harry could tell he was putting two and two together, as only Snape could. . . .
"Potter," he said quietly.
"What
 said Moody calmly, folding up the map and pocketing it.

 Snape snarled, and he actually turned his head and stared right at the place where Harry was, as though he could suddenly see him.  

Snape stretched out his hands like a blind man and began to move up the stairs; Harry could have sworn his over-large nostrils were dilating, trying to sniff Harry out - trapped. Harry leaned backward, trying to avoid Snapes fingertips, but any moment now-

s nothing there, Snape!" barked Moody, "but I


  Snape turned again to look at Moody, his hands still outstretched, inches from Harry's chest.

s very interested to know who
 said Moody, limping nearer still to the foot of the stairs.  
 The torchlight flickered across his mangled face, so that the scars, and the chunk missing from
his nose, looked deeper and darker than ever.
Snape was looking down at Moody, and Harry couldn't see the expression on his face. For a moment, nobody moved or said anything.  Then Snape slowly lowered his hands.

 said Snape, in a voice of forced calm, 
s an unfortunate habit of his ... he should be stopped.  For - for his own safety."
"Ah, I see," said Moody softly. "Got Potter

There was a pause.  Snape and Moody were still staring at each other, Mrs. Norris gave a loud meow, still peering around Filch's legs, looking for the source of Harry's bubble-bath smell.

 Snape said curtly.

ve had all night," said Moody.  "Now, Filch, if you


  said Filch, clutching the egg as though it were his firstborn son.  
 treachery!"
"It
 said Moody.   Hand it over, now.
Never mind. my sweet.. . we'll see Dumbledore in the morning ... tell him what Peeves was up to....
Close shave. Potter,
Yeah ... I - er ... thanks,
What is this thing?
s Map out of his pocket and unfolding it.
"Map of Hogwarts," said Harry, hoping Moody was going to pull him out of the staircase soon; his leg was really hurting him.
"Merlins beard," Moody whispered, staring at the map, his magical eye going haywire. "This . .. this is some map.  Potter!"
"Yeah, its . . . quite useful," Harry said. His eyes were starting to water from the pain. "Er - Professor Moody, d



Moody took hold of Harrys arms and pulled; Harrys leg came free of the trick step, and he climbed onto the one above it.  Moody was still gazing at the map.

 he said slowly, 
t happen, by any chance, to see who broke into Snapes office, did you?  On this map, I mean?"
"Er . . . yeah, I did . . ." Harry admitted. "It was Mr. Crouch."
Moodys magical eye whizzed over the entire surface of the map.  He looked suddenly alarmed.
"Crouch?" he said.  "You
re sure. Potter?"
"Positive," said Harry.
"Well, he
 said Moody, his eye still whizzing over the map.  
s very - very interesting... ."
He said nothing for almost a minute, still staring at the map.  Harry could tell that this news meant something to Moody and very much wanted to know what it was.  He wondered whether he dared ask.  Moody scared him slightly. . . yet Moody had just helped him avoid an awful lot of trouble. . . .
"Er ... Professor Moody . . . why d

Moodys magical eye left the map and fixed, quivering, upon Harry.  It was a penetrating glare, and Harry had the impression that Moody was sizing him up, wondering whether to answer or not, or how much to tell him.

 Moody muttered finally, 
s obsessed with catching Dark wizards . . . but I

He continued to stare at the map. Harry was burning to know more.

 he said again.  
you think... could this have anything to do with . . . maybe Mr. Crouch thinks there


 said Moody sharply.
Harry wondered how much he dare say.  He didn't want Moody to guess that he had a source of information outside Hogwarts; that might lead to tricky questions about Sirius.

t know," Harry muttered, "odd stuffs been happening lately, hasn
s been in the Daily Prophet... the Dark Mark at the World Cup, and the Death Eaters and everything...."
Both of Moody
You're a sharp boy. Potter,
s Map.  "Crouch could be thinking along those lines," he said slowly.  "Very possible. . . there have been some funny rumors flying around lately - helped along by Rita Skeeter, of course.  It
  A grim smile twisted his lopsided mouth.  
s one thing I hate," he muttered, more to himself than to Harry, and his magical eye was fixed on the left-hand corner of the map, "its a Death Eater who walked free. ..."
Harry stared at him. Could Moody possibly mean what Harry thought he meant?
"And now I want to ask you a question. Potter," said Moody in a more businesslike tone.
Harrys heart sank; he had thought this was coming.  Moody was going to ask where he had got this map, which was a very dubious magical object - and the story of how it had fallen into his hands incriminated not only him, but his own father, Fred and George Weasley, and Professor Lupin, their last Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher.  Moody waved the map in front of Harry, who braced himself-
"Can I borrow this?"
"Oh!" said Harry.
He was very fond of his map, but on the other hand, he was extremely relieved that Moody wasn
d got it, and there was no doubt that he owed Moody a favor.
"Yeah, okay."
"Good boy," growled Moody. "I can make good use of this . .. this might be exactly what I

They climbed to the top of the stairs together, Moody still examining the map as though it was a treasure the like of which he had never seen before.  They walked in silence to the door of Moody's office, where he stopped and looked up at Harry.



 said Harry, taken aback.

 said Moody, nodding and looking at Harry thoughtfully. 
m guessing you werent Just taking that egg for a walk tonight?"
 "Er - no," said Harry, grinning. "I

Moody winked at him, his magical eye going haywire again. 

He went back into his office, staring down at the Marauders Map again, and closed the door behind him.
Harry walked slowly back to Gryffindor Tower, lost in thought about Snape, and Crouch, and what it all meant.... Why was Crouch pretending to be ill, if he could manage to get to Hogwarts when he wanted to?  What did he think Snape was concealing in his office?
And Moody thought he. Harry, ought to be an Auror!  Interesting idea.. . but somehow. Harry thought, as he got quietly into his four-poster ten minutes later, the egg and the cloak now safely back in his trunk, he thought he'd like to check how scarred the rest of them were before he chose it as a career.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX - THE SECOND TASK

You said you'd already worked out that egg clue!
Keep your voice down!
I just need to - sort of fine-tune it, all right?
t hurt anyone if they went off target.  It was a good theory, but it wasn
s aim was so poor that he kept accidentally sending much heavier things flying across the room - Professor Flitwick, for instance.
"Just forget the egg for a minute, all right?"  Harry hissed as Professor Flitwick went whizzing resignedly past them, landing on top of a large cabinet.  "I

This class was an ideal cover for a private conversation, as everyone was having far too much fun to pay them any attention.  Harry had been recounting his adventures of the previous night in whispered installments for the last half hour.

  Ron whispered, his eyes alight with interest as he Banished a cushion with a sweep of his wand (it soared into the air and knocked Parvati's hat off).  
you reckon Moody


s what Dumbledore asked him to do, but he
 said Harry, waving his wand without paying much attention, so that his cushion did an odd sort of belly flop off the desk.  
s giving him a second chance or something. ..."
"What?" said Ron, his eyes widening, his next cushion spinning high into the air, ricocheting off the chandelier, and dropping heavily onto Flitwick
Harry... maybe Moody thinks Snape put your name in the Goblet of Fire!
Oh Ron,
we thought Snape was trying to kill Harry before, and it turned out he was saving Harry's life, remember?
d loathed Harry s father when they had been at school together.  Snape loved taking points from Harry, and had certainly never missed an opportunity to give him punishments, or even to suggest that he should be suspended from the school.
"I don
 Hermione went on.  
s not stupid.  He was right to trust Hagrid and Professor Lupin, even though loads of people wouldn
t he be right about Snape, even if Snape is a bit -"
"- evil," said Ron promptly.  "Come on, Hermione, why are all these Dark wizard catchers searching his office, then?"
"Why has Mr. Crouch been pretending to be ill?" said Hermione, ignoring Ron.  "Its a bit funny, isn


t like Crouch because of that elf, Winky," said Ron, sending a cushion soaring into the window.
"You just want to think Snapes up to something," said Hermione, sending her cushion zooming neatly into the box.
"I just want to know what Snape did with his first chance, if he
 said Harry grimly, and his cushion, to his very great surprise, flew straight across the room and landed neatly on top of Hermione's.

Obedient to Sirius's wish of hearing about anything odd at Hogwarts, Harry sent him a letter by brown owl that night, explaining all about Mr. Crouch breaking into Snape s office, and Moody and Snape's conversation.  Then Harry turned his attention in earnest to the most urgent problem facing him: how to survive underwater for an hour on the twenty-fourth of February.
Ron quite liked the idea of using the Summoning Charm again - Harry had explained about Aqua-Lungs, and Ron couldn't see why Harry shouldn't Summon one from the nearest Muggle town.  Hermione squashed this plan by pointing out that, in the unlikely event that Harry managed to learn how to operate an Aqua-Lung within the set limit of an hour, he was sure to be disqualified for breaking the International Code of Wizarding Secrecy - it was too much to hope that no Muggles would spot an Aqua-Lung zooming across the countryside to Hogwarts.

 Hermione said.  
d done human Transfiguration already!  But I don
t know what you


t fancy walking around with a periscope sticking out of my head," said Harry.  "I s


t think he
 said Hermione seriously.  

So Harry, thinking that he would soon have had enough of the library to last him a lifetime, buried himself once more among the dusty volumes, looking for any spell that might enable a human to survive without oxygen.  However, though he, Ron, and Hermione searched through their lunchtimes, evenings, and whole weekends - though Harry asked Professor McGonagall for a note of permission to use the Restricted Section, and even asked the irritable, vulture-like librarian.  Madam Pince, for help - they found nothing whatsoever that would enable Harry to spend an hour underwater and live to tell the tale.
Familiar flutterings of panic were starting to disturb Harry now, and he was finding it difficult to concentrate in class again.  The lake, which Harry had always taken for granted as just another feature of the grounds, drew his eyes whenever he was near a classroom window, a great, iron-gray mass of chilly water, whose dark and icy depths were starting to seem as distant as the moon.
Just as it had before he faced the Horntail, time was slipping away as though somebody had bewitched the clocks to go extra-fast.  There was a week to go before February the twenty-fourth (there was still time) . . . there were five days to go (he was bound to find something soon) .. . three days to go (please let me find something... please). . .
With two days left.  Harry started to go off food again.  The only good thing about breakfast on Monday was the return of the brown owl he had sent to Sirius.  He pulled off the parchment, unrolled it, and saw the shortest letter Sirius had ever written to him.

Send date of next Hogsmeade weekend by return owl.

Harry turned the parchment over and looked at the back, hoping to see something else, but it was blank.

 whispered Hermione, who had read the note over Harrys shoulder.  

Harry scribbled the dates down on the back of Sirius's letter, tied it onto the brown owl's leg, and watched it take flight again.  What had he expected?  Advice on how to survive underwater?  He had been so intent on telling Sirius all about Snape and Moody he had completely forgotten to mention the eggs clue.

s he want to know about the next Hogsmeade weekend for?" said Ron.
"Dunno," said Harry dully.  The momentary happiness that had flared inside him at the sight of the owl had died.  "Come on ...Care of Magical Creatures."
Whether Hagrid was trying to make up for the Blast-Ended Skrewts, or because there were now only two skrewts left, or because he was trying to prove he could do anything that Professor Grubbly-Plank could.  Harry didnt know, but Hagrid had been continuing her lessons on unicorns ever since he
Easier ter spot than the adults,
They turn silver when they're abou' two years old, an' they grow horns at aroun four.  Don' go pure white till they're full grown, 'round about seven.  They're a bit more trustin when they're babies .. . don mind boys so much.... C'mon, move in a bit, yeh can pat 'em if yeh want. . . give 'em a few o' these sugar lumps. . . .

  Hagrid muttered, moving aside slightly, while most of the others swarmed around the baby unicorns.

 said Harry.  
 nervous, eh?"  said Hagrid.
"Bit," said Harry. 
"Harry," said Hagrid, clapping a massive hand on his shoulder, so that Harry
I'd've bin worried before I saw yeh take on tha Horntail, but I know now yeh can do anythin' yeh set yer mind ter.  I'm not worried at all.  Yeh're goin ter be fine. Got yer clue worked out, haven' yeh?
t have any idea how to survive at the bottom of the lake for an hour came over him.  He looked up at Hagrid - perhaps he had to go into the lake sometimes, to deal with the creatures in it?  He looked after everything else on the grounds, after all-
"Yeh
 ter win," Hagrid growled, patting Harrys shoulder again, so that Harry actually felt himself sink a couple of inches into the soft ground.  "I know it.  I can feel it.  Yeh
 ter win, Harry n
Harry just couldn
s face. Pretending he was interested in the young unicorns, he forced a smile in return, and moved forward to pat them with the others.

By the evening before the second task.  Harry felt as though he were trapped in a nightmare.  He was fully aware that even if, by some miracle, he managed to find a suitable spell, he
t he got to work on the egg
water
Take two pints of water, half a pound of shredded mandrake leaves, and a newt...
I don't reckon it can be done,
There's nothing.  Nothing.  Closest was that thing to dry up puddles and ponds, that Drought Charm, but that was nowhere near powerful enough to drain the lake.
There must be something,
They'd never have set a task that was undoable.
They have,
Harry, just go down to the lake tomorrow, right, stick your head in, yell at the merpeople to give back whatever they've nicked, and see if they chuck it out. Best you can do, mate.
There's a way of doing it!
There Just has to be!
s lack of useful information on the subject as a personal insult; it had never failed her before.
"I know what I should have done," said Harry, resting, face-down, on Saucy Tricks for Tricky Sorts.  "I should

An Animagus was a wizard who could transform into an animal.

ve turned into a goldfish any time you wanted!"  said Ron.
"Or a frog," yawned Harry.  He was exhausted.  "It takes years to become an Animagus, and then you have to register yourself and everything," said Hermione vaguely, now squinting down the index of Weird Wizarding Dilemmas and Their Solutions.  "Professor McGonagall told us, remember... you
t abuse it..."
            "Hermione, I was joking," said Harry wearily.  "I know I haven


 Hermione said, snapping shut Weird Wizarding Dilemmas.  


t mind," said Fred Weasleys voice. "Be a talking point, wouldn

Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked up.  Fred and George had just emerged from behind some bookshelves.

re you two doing here?" Ron asked.
"Looking for you," said George. "McGonagall wants you, Ron.  And you, Hermione."
"Why?"  said Hermione, looking surprised.
"Dunno ... she was looking a bit grim, though," said Fred.
"We
 said George.
Ron and Hermione stared at Harry, who felt his stomach drop.  Was Professor McGonagall about to tell Ron and Hermione off?  Perhaps she'd noticed how much they were helping him, when he ought to be working out how to do the task alone?

ll meet you back in the common room," Hermione told Harry as she got up to go with Ron - both of them looked very anxious.  "Bring as many of these books as you can, okay?"
"Right," said Harry uneasily.
By eight o
t answer them, he just nodded, feeling as though there were a golfball stuck in his throat. By ten to midnight, he was alone in the room with Crookshanks.  He had searched all the remaining books, and Ron and Hermione had not come back.
It
t do it.  You
t do the task.  He pictured Bagman
I knew it. . . 'e is too young, 'e is only a little boy.
d stay there all night if he had to. ...
"Lumos," Harry whispered fifteen minutes later as he opened the library door.
Wand tip alight, he crept along the bookshelves, pulling down more books - books of hexes and charms, books on merpeople and water monsters, books on famous witches and wizards, on magical inventions, on anything at all that might include one passing reference to underwater survival.  He carried them over to a table, then set to work, searching them by the narrow beam of his wand, occasionally checking his watch. . . .
One in the morning. . . two in the morning . . . the only way he could keep going was to tell himself, over and over again, next book. . . in the next one. . . the next one. . .

The mermaid in the painting in the prefects
Come and get it!
Come on, jump!
I can't,
Give it to me!
That hurts - get off- ouch -
Harry Potter must wake up, sir!
Stop poking me -
Dobby must poke Harry Potter, sir, he must wake up!
d slept, and the side of his face was stuck to the pages of Where There
s a Way.  He sat up, straightening his glasses, blinking in the bright daylight.
"Harry Potter needs to hurry!"  squeaked Dobby.  "The second task starts in ten minutes, and Harry Potter -"
"Ten minutes?" Harry croaked. "Ten - ten minutes?"
He looked down at his watch.  Dobby was right.  It was twenty past nine.  A large, dead weight seemed to fall through Harry
Hurry, Harry Potter!
s sleeve.  "You is supposed to be down by the lake with the other champions, sir!"
"It
 Harry said hopelessly.  
m not doing the task, I don


  squeaked the elf.  


  said Harry. 
t know what the second task is -"
"Dobby knows, sir!  Harry Potter has to go into the lake and find his Wheezy -"
"Find my what?"
"- and take his Wheezy back from the merpeople!"
"What



Dobby plucked at the shrunken maroon sweater he was now wearing over his shorts.

 Harry gasped. 
ve got. . . they


 squeaked Dobby.  
But past an hour-


the prospect
" Harry recited, staring, horror-struck, at the elf. " 
s gone, it won
  Dobby - what


 s queaked the elf, and he put his hand in the pocket of his shorts and drew out a ball of what looked like slimy, grayish-green rat tails.  


s it do?" said Harry, staring at the gillyweed.
"It will make Harry Potter breathe underwater, sir!"
"Dobby," said Harry frantically, "listen - are you sure about this?"
He couldn
help
Dobby is quite sure, sir!
Dobby hears things, sir, he is a house-elf, he goes all over the castle as he lights the fires and mops the floors.  Dobby heard Professor McGonagall and Professor Moody in the staffroom, talking about the next task. . . . Dobby cannot let Harry Potter lose his Wheezy!
Dobby is supposed to be in the kitchens, sir!
Dobby will be missed - good luck, Harry Potter, sir, good luck!
See you later, Dobby!
 enclosure in November were now ranged along the opposite bank, rising in stands that were packed to the bursting point and reflected in the lake below.  The excited babble of the crowd echoed strangely across the water as Harry ran flat-out around the other side of the lake toward the judges, who were sitting at another gold-draped table at the water
 table, watching Harry sprint toward them.
"I
 Harry panted, skidding to a halt in the mud and accidentally splattering Fleurs robes.

 said a bossy, disapproving voice.  
s about to start!"
Harry looked around. Percy Weasley was sitting at the judges
Now, now, Percy!
Let him catch his breath!
t look at all pleased to see him. ... It was obvious from the looks on their faces that they had thought he wasn
All right. Harry?
Know what you're going to do?
Yeah,
s shoulder a quick squeeze and returned to the judges
Sonorus!
Well, all our champions are ready for the second task, which will start on my whistle. They have precisely an hour to recover what has been taken from them.  On the count of three, then. One . . . two . . . three!
t feel icy anymore either ... on the contrary, he felt pleasantly cool and very light. . . . Harry struck out once more, marveling at how far and fast his flipper-like feet propelled him through the vater, and noticing how clearly he could see, and how he no longer seemed to need to blink.  He had soon swum so far into the lake that he could no longer see the bottom. He flipped over and dived into its depths.
Silence pressed upon his ears as he soared over a strange, dark, foggy landscape.  He could only see ten feet around him, so that as he sped throuugh the water new scenes seemed to loom suddenly out of the incoming darkness:  forests of rippling, tangled black weed, wide plains of mud littered with dull, glimmering stones.  He swam deeper and deeper, out toward the middle of the lake, his eyes wide, staring through the eerily gray-lit water around him to the shadow beyond, where the water became opaque.
Small fish flickered past him like silver darts.  Once or twice he thought he saw something larger moving ahead of him, but when he got nearer, he discovered it to be nothing but a large, blackened log, or a dense clump of weed.  There was no sign of any of the other champions, merpeople, Ron - nor, thankfully, the giant squid.
Light green weed stretched ahead of him as far as he could see, two feet deep, like a meadow of very overgrown grass.  Harry was staring unblinkingly ahead of him, trying to discern shapes through the gloom . . . and then, without warning, something grabbed hold of his ankle.
Harry twisted his body around and saw a grindylow, a small, horned water demon, poking out of the weed, its long fingers clutched tightly around Harry
s robes, and were attempting to drag him down.
"Relashio!"  Harry shouted, except that no sound came out. ... A large bubble issued from his mouth, and his wand, instead of sending sparks at the grindylows, pelted them with what seemed to be a jet of boiling water, for where it struck them, angry red patches appeared on their green skin.  Harry pulled his ankle out of the grindylows grip and swam, as fast as he could, occasionally sending more jets of hot water over his shoulder at random; every now and then he felt one of the grindylows snatch at his foot again, and he kicked out, hard; finally, he felt his foot connect with a horned skull, and looking back, saw the dazed grindylow floating away, cross-eyed, while its fellows shook their fists at Harry and sank back into the weed.
Harry slowed down a little, slipped his wand back inside his robes, and looked around, listening again.  He turned full circle in the water, the silence pressing harder than ever against his eardrums.  He knew he must be even deeper in the lake now, but nothing was moving but the rippling weed.
"How are you getting on?"
Harry thought he was having a heart attack.  He whipped around and saw Moaning Myrtle floating hazily in front of him, gazing at him through her thick, pearly glasses.
"Myrtle!" Harry tried to shout - but once again, nothing came out of his mouth but a very large bubble.  Moaning Myrtle actually giggled.
"You want to try over there!" she said, pointing.  "I won
t like them much, they always chase me when I get too close. ..."
Harry gave her the thumbs-up to show his thanks and set off once more, careful to swim a bit higher over the weed to avoid any more grindylows that might be lurking there.
He swam on for what felt like at least twenty minutes.  He was passing over vast expanses of black mud now, which swirled murkily as he disturbed the water.  Then, at long last, he heard a snatch of haunting mersong.

"An hour long you


Harry swam faster and soon saw a large rock emerge out of the muddy water ahead.  It had paintings of merpeople on it; they were carrying spears and chasing what looked like the giant squid.  Harry swam on past the rock, following the mersong.


s half gone, so tarry not 
Lest what you seek stays here to rot. ..."

A cluster of crude stone dwellings stained with algae loomed suddenly out of the gloom on all sides.  Here and there at the dark windows, Harry saw faces . . . faces that bore no resemblance at all to the painting of the mermaid in the prefects
s sister.  All four of them appeared to be in a very deep sleep.  Their heads were lolling onto their shoulders, and fine streams of bubbles kept issuing from their mouths.
Harry sped toward the hostages, half expecting the merpeople to lower their spears and charge at him, but they did nothing.  The ropes of weed tying the hostages to the statue were thick, slimy, and very strong.  For a fleeting second he thought of the knife Sirius had bought him for Christmas - locked in his trunk in the castle a quarter of a mile away, no use to him whatsoever.
He looked around.  Many of the merpeople surrounding them were carrying spears.  He swam swiftly toward a seven-foot-tall merman with a long green beard and a choker of shark fangs and tried to mime a request to borrow the spear.  The merman laughed and shook his head.
"We do not help," he said in a harsh, croaky voice.
"Come ON!"  Harry said fiercely (but only bubbles issued from his mouth), and he tried to pull the spear away from the merman, but the merman yanked it back, still shaking his head and laughing.
Harry swirled around, staring about. Something sharp . . . anything . . .
There were rocks littering the lake bottom.  He dived and snatched up a particularly jagged one and returned to the statue.  He began to hack at the ropes binding Ron, and after several minutes
t they hurry up?  He turned back to Hermione, raised the jagged rock, and began to hack at her bindings too -
At once, several pairs of strong gray hands seized him. Half a dozen mermen were pulling him away from Hermione, shaking their green-haired heads, and laughing.
"You take your own hostage," one of them said to him.  "Leave the others ..."
"No way!" said Harry furiously - but only two large bubbles came out.
Your task is to retrieve your own friend . . . leave the others ..." She
 Harry yelled, gesturing toward Hermione, an enormous silver bubble emerging soundlessly from his lips.  
t want them to die either!"
Cho
Got lost!
Fleur and Krum're coming now!
s new teeth were positioned very awkwardly for biting anything smaller than a dolphin, and Harry was quite sure that if Krum wasn
Get out of the way!
s wand, and they looked scared.  There might be a lot more of them than there were of him, but Harry could tell, by the looks on their faces, that they knew no more magic than the giant squid did.
"You
  Harry shouted; a great stream of bubbles burst from him, but he held up three fingers to make sure they got the message.  
 (he put down a finger) 
 (he put down a second one) -
They scattered. Harry darted forward and began to hack at the ropes binding the small girl to the statue, and at last she was free.  He seized the little girl around the waist, grabbed the neck of Rons robes, and kicked off from the bottom.
It was very slow work.  He could no longer use his webbed hands to propel himself forward; he worked his flippers furiously, but Ron and Fleur's sister were like potato-filled sacks dragging him back down. ... He fixed his eyes skyward, though he knew he must still be very deep, the water above him was so dark, . . .
Merpeople were rising with him.  He could see them swirling around him with ease, watching him struggle through the water. .. . Would they pull him back down to the depths when the time was up?  Did they perhaps eat humans?  Harry's legs were seizing up with the effort to keep swimming; his shoulders were aching horribly with the effort of dragging Ron and the girl...
He was drawing breath with extreme difficulty.  He could feel pain on the sides of his neck again ... he was becoming very aware of how wet the water was in his mouth .. . yet the darkness was definitely thinning now... he could see daylight above him.. ..
He kicked hard with his flippers and discovered that they were nothing more than feet...water was flooding through his mouth into his lungs ... he was starting to feel dizzy, but he knew light and air were only ten feet above him ... he had to get there ... he had to ...
Harry kicked his legs so hard and fast it felt as though his muscles were screaming in protest; his very brain felt waterlogged, he couldn't breathe, he needed oxygen, he had to keep going, he could not stop -
And then he felt his head break the surface of the lake; wonderful, cold, clear air was making his wet face sting; he gulped it down, feeling as though he had never breathed properly before, and, panting, pulled Ron and the little girl up with him.  All around him, wild, green-haired heads were emerging out of the water with him, but they were smiling at him.
The crowd in the stands was making a great deal of noise; shouting and screaming, they all seemed to be on their feet; Harry had the impression they thought that Ron and the little girl might be dead, but they were wrong . . . both of them had opened their eyes; the girl looked scared and confused, but Ron merely expelled a great spout of water, blinked in the bright light, turned to Harry, and said, 
t it?"  Then he spotted Fleur
What did you bring her for?
Fleur didn't turn up, I couldn't leave her,
Harry, you prat,
you didn't take that song thing seriously, did you? Dumbledore wouldn't have let any of us drown!
The song said -
It was only to make sure you got back inside the time limit!
I hope you didn't waste time down there acting the hero!
d been asleep, he hadn
d looked more than capable of murder.
"C
 Harry said shortly, 
t think she can swim very well."
They pulled Fleur
Gabrielle!  Gabrielle!  Is she alive?  Is she 'urt?
She's fine!
Gerroff, Percy, I'm all right!
It was ze grindylows . . . zey attacked me ... oh Gabrielle, I thought... I thought.. .
Come here, you,
Harry, well done!
You did it, you found out how all by yourself!
Well -
s sister had got back safely. "Yeah, that
 said Harry, raising his voice slightly so that Karkaroff could hear him.

 said Krum. Harry had the impression that Krum was drawing her attention back onto himself; perhaps to remind her that he had just rescued her from the lake, but Hermione brushed away the beetle impatiently and said, 
re well outside the time limit, though, Harry. . . . Did it take you ages to find us?"
"No ... I found you okay...."
Harry
t have permitted the death of a hostage just because their champion hadn
t he just grabbed Ron and gone?  He would have been first back.... Cedric and Krum hadn
t taken the mersong seriously. ...
Dumbledore was crouching at the water
A conference before we give the marks, I think.
s clutches; she led him over to Harry and the others, gave him a blanket and some Pepperup Potion, then went to fetch Fleur and her sister.  Fleur had many cuts on her face and arms and her robes were torn, but she didn
Look after Gabrielle,
You saved 'er,
Even though she was not your 'ostage.
Yeah,
d left all three girls tied to the statue.
Fleur bent down, kissed Harry twice on each cheek (he felt his face burn and wouldn
And you too-you 'elped -
Yeah,
yeah, a bit -
s magically magnified voice boomed out beside them, making them all jump, and causing the crowd in the stands to go very quiet.
"Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached our decision.  Merchieftainess Murcus has told us exactly what happened at the bottom of the lake, and we have therefore decided to award marks out of fifty for each of the champions, as follows. . . .
"Fleur Delacour, though she demonstrated excellent use of the Bubble-Head Charm, was attacked by grindylows as she approached her goal, and failed to retrieve her hostage.  We award her twenty-five points."
Applause from the stands.
"I deserved zero," said Fleur throatily, shaking her magnificent head.
"Cedric Diggory, who also used the Bubble-Head Charm, was first to return with his hostage, though he returned one minute outside the time limit of an hour."  Enormous cheers from the Hufflepuffs in the crowd; Harry saw Cho give Cedric a glowing look.  "We therefore award him forty-seven points."
Harrys heart sank. If Cedric had been outside the time limit, he most certainly had been.
"Viktor Krum used an incomplete form of Transfiguration, which was nevertheless effective, and was second to return with his hostage.  We award him forty points."
Karkaroff clapped particularly hard, looking very superior.
"Harry Potter used gillyweed to great effect," Bagman continued.  "He returned last, and well outside the time limit of an hour.  However, the Merchieftainess informs us that Mr. Potter was first to reach the hostages, and that the delay in his return was due to his determination to return all hostages to safety, not merely his own."
Ron and Hermione both gave Harry half-exasperated, half-commiserating looks.
"Most of the judges," and here, Bagman gave Karkaroff a very nasty look, "feel that this shows moral fiber and merits full marks.  However . . . Mr. Potter

Harry's stomach leapt - he was now tying for first place with Cedric.  Ron and Hermione, caught by surprise, stared at Harry, then laughed and started applauding hard with the rest of the crowd.

 Ron shouted over the noise.  
t being thick after all - you were showing moral fiber!"
Fleur was clapping very hard too, but Krum didn
The third and final task will take place at dusk on the twenty-fourth of June,
The champions will be notified of what is coming precisely one month beforehand. Thank you all for your support of the champions.
t have to worry about anything now until June the twenty-fourth. . ..
Next time he was in Hogsmeade, Harry decided as he walked back up the stone steps into the castle, he was going to buy Dobby a pair of socks for every day of the year.



CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN - PADFOOT RETURNS

One of the best things about the aftermath of the second task was that everybody was very keen to hear details of what had happened down in the lake, which meant that Ron was getting to share Harry
s version of events changed subtly with every retelling.  At first, he gave what seemed to be the truth; it tallied with Hermione
s office, first assuring them that they would be quite safe, and would awake when they were back above the water.  One week later, however, Ron was telling a thrilling tale of kidnap in which he struggled single-handedly against fifty heavily armed merpeople who had to beat him into submission before tying him up.
"But I had my wand hidden up my sleeve," he assured Padma Patil, who seemed to be a lot keener on Ron now that he was getting so much attention and was making a point of talking to him every time they passed in the corridors.  "I could


  said Hermione waspishly.  People had been teasing her so much about being the thing that Viktor Krum would most miss that she was in a rather tetchy mood.
Ron's ears went red, and thereafter, he reverted to the bewitched sleep version of events.
As they entered March the weather became drier, but cruel winds skinned their hands and faces every time they went out onto the grounds.  There were delays in the post because the owls kept being blown off course.  The brown owl that Harry had sent to Sirius with the dates of the Hogsmeade weekend turned up at breakfast on Friday morning with half its feathers sticking up the wrong way; Harry had no sooner torn off Sirius's reply than it took flight, clearly afraid it was going to be sent outside again.
Sirius's letter was almost as short as the previous one.

Be at stile at end of road out of Hogsmeade (past Dervish and 
Banges) at two o'clock on Saturday afternoon. Bring as much 
food as you can.


t come back to Hogsmeade?" said Ron incredulously.  
"It looks like it, doesn
 said Hermione.  

t believe him," said Harry tensely, "if he
 

t he?" said Ron. "And it

Harry folded up the letter, thinking. If he was honest with himself, he really wanted to see Sirius again. He therefore approached the final lesson of the afternoon - double Potions - feeling considerably more cheerful than he usually did when descending the steps to the dungeons.
Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle were standing in a huddle outside the classroom door with Pansy Parkinson's gang of Slytherin girls.  All of them were looking at something Harry couldn't see and sniggering heartily.  Pansys pug-like face peered excitedly around Goyle's broad back as Harry, Ron, and Hermione approached.

  she giggled, and the knot of Slytherins broke apart. Harry saw that Pansy had a magazine in her hands - Witch Weekly.  The moving picture on the front showed a curly-haired witch who was smiling toothily and pointing at a large sponge cake with her wand.

 Pansy said loudly, and she threw the magazine at Hermione, who caught it, looking startled.  At that moment, the dungeon door opened, and Snape beckoned them all inside.
Hermione, Harry, and Ron headed for a table at the back of the dungeon as usual. Once Snape had turned his back on them to write up the ingredients of todays potion on the blackboard, Hermione hastily rifled through the magazine under the desk.  At last, in the center pages, Hermione found what they were looking for.  Harry and Ron leaned in closer.  A color photograph of Harry headed a short piece entitled:

Harry Potter's Secret Heartache

A boy like no other, perhaps - yet a boy suffering all the usual pangs of adolescence, writes Rita Skeeter.  Deprived of love since the tragic demise
of his parents, fourteen-year-old Harry Potter thought he had found solace in his steady girlfriend at Hogwarts, Muggle-born Hermione Granger.  Little did he know that he would shortly be suffering yet another emotional blow in a life already littered with personal loss.
Miss Granger, a plain but ambitious girl, seems to have a taste for famous wizards that Harry alone cannot satisfy.  Since the arrival at Hogwarts of Viktor Krum, Bulgarian Seeker and hero of the last World Quidditch Cup, Miss Granger has been toying with both boys' affections.  Krum, who is openly smitten with the devious Miss Granger, has already invited her to visit him in Bulgaria over the summer holidays, and insists that he has 

However, it might not be Miss Granger's doubtful natural charms that have captured these unfortunate boys' interest.

s really ugly," says Pansy Parkinson, a pretty and vivacious fourth-year student, "but she
s quite brainy. I think that
s doing it."
Love Potions are, of course, banned at Hogwarts, and no doubt Albus Dumbledore will want to investigate these claims.  In the meantime, Harry Potters well-wishers must hope that, next time, he bestows his heart on a worthier candidate.

"I told you!"  Ron hissed at Hermione as she stared down at the article.  "I told you not to annoy Rita Skeeter!  She

Hermione stopped looking astonished and snorted with laughter. 
 she repeated, shaking with suppressed giggles as she looked around at Ron.

s what my mum calls them," Ron muttered, his ears going red.
"If that
s losing her touch," said Hermione, still giggling, as she threw Witch Weekly onto the empty chair beside her.  "What a pile of old rubbish."
She looked over at the Slytherins, who were all watching her and Harry closely across the room to see if they had been upset by the article.  Hermione gave them a sarcastic smile and a wave, and she, Harry, and Ron started unpacking the ingredients they would need for their Wit-Sharpening Potion.
"There
 said Hermione ten minutes later, holding her pestle suspended over a bowl of scarab beetles.  


 said Ron quickly. 
t been mixing up Love Potions, have you?"
"Don
 Hermione snapped, starting to pound up her beetles again. 
s just. . . how did she know Viktor asked me to visit him over the summer?"
Hermione blushed scarlet as she said this and determinedly avoided Ron
What?
He asked me right after he'd pulled me out of the lake,
After he'd got rid of his shark's head.  Madam Pomfrey gave us both blankets and then he sort of pulled me away from the judges so they wouldn't hear, and he said, if I wasn't doing anything over the summer, would I like to -
And what did you say?
And he did say he'd never felt the same way about anyone else,
but how could Rita Skeeter have heard him?  She wasn't there ... or was she?  Maybe she has got an Invisibility Cloak; maybe she sneaked onto the grounds to watch the second task. ...
And what did you say?
Well, I was too busy seeing whether you and Harry were okay to-
Fascinating though your social life undoubtedly is. Miss Granger,
I must ask you not to discuss it in my class. Ten points from Gryffindor.
Ah . . . reading magazines under the table as well?
A further ten points from Gryffindor ... oh but of course ...
s article.  "Potter has to keep up with his press cuttings. . . ."
The dungeon rang with the Slytherins
s thin mouth.  To Harry
'Harry Potter's Secret Heartache. . . dear, dear.  Potter, what's ailing you now?  'A boy like no other, perhaps. . .'
'. . . Harry Potter's well-wishers must hope that, next time, he bestows his heart upon a worthier candidate.'  How very touching,
Well, I think I had better separate the three of you, so you can keep your minds on your potions rather than on your tangled love lives. Weasley, you stay here. Miss Granger, over there, beside Miss Parkinson. Potter - that table in front of my desk. Move. Now.
s face.
"All this press attention seems to have inflated your already over-large head. Potter," said Snape quietly, once the rest of the class had settled down again.
Harry didn
You might be laboring under the delusion that the entire wizarding world is impressed with you,
but I don't care how many times your picture appears in the papers.  To me. Potter, you are nothing but a nasty little boy who considers rules to be beneath him.
t hear what Snape was saying to him.
"So I give you fair warning, Potter," Snape continued in a sorter and more dangerous voice, "pint-sized celebrity or not - if I catch you breaking into my office one more time -"
"I haven
  said Harry angrily, forgetting his feigned deafness.

t lie to me," Snape hissed, his fathomless black eyes boring into Harrys. "Boomslang skin.  Gillyweed.  Both come from my private stores, and I know who stole them."
Harry stared back at Snape, determined not to blink or to look guilty.  In truth, he hadn
I don't know what you're talking about,
You were out of bed on the night my office was broken into!
I know it. Potter!  Now, Mad-Eye Moody might have joined your fan club, but I will not tolerate your behavior!  One more nighttime stroll into my office, Potter, and you will pay!
Right,
I'll bear that in mind if I ever get the urge to go in there.
s eyes flashed. He plunged a hand into the inside of his black robes. For one wild moment. Harry thought Snape was about to pull out his wand and curse him - then he saw that Snape had drawn out a small crystal bottle of a completely clear potion.  Harry stared at it.
"Do you know what this is. Potter?" Snape said, his eyes glittering dangerously again.
"No," said Harry, with complete honesty this time.
"It is Veritaserum - a Truth Potion so powerful that three drops would have you spilling your innermost secrets for this entire class to hear," said Snape viciously.  "Now, the use of this potion is controlled by very strict Ministry guidelines.  But unless you watch your step, you might just find that my hand slips" - he shook the crystal bottle slightly - "right over your evening pumpkin juice.  And then. Potter . . . then we
ve been in my office or not."
Harry said nothing.  He turned back to his ginger roots once more, picked up his knife, and started slicing them again.  He didn
Enter,
s desk.  He was twisting his finger around his goatee and looking agitated.
"We need to talk," said Karkaroff abruptly when he had reached Snape.  He seemed so determined that nobody should hear what he was saying that he was barely opening his lips; it was as though he were a rather poor ventriloquist.  Harry kept his eyes on his ginger roots, listening hard.
"I
 Snape muttered, but Karkaroff interrupted him.

t slip off, Severus.  You


 Snape snapped.
Under the pretext of holding up a measuring cup to see if he'd poured out enough armadillo bile, Harry sneaked a sidelong glance at the pair of them. Karkaroff looked extremely worried, and Snape looked angry.
Karkaroff hovered behind Snape's desk for the rest of the double period.  He seemed intent on preventing Snape from slipping away at the end of class.  Keen to hear what Karkaroff wanted to say, Harry deliberately knocked over his bottle of armadillo bile with two minutes to go to the bell, which gave him an excuse to duck down behind his cauldron and mop up while the rest of the class moved noisily toward the door.

s so urgent?" he heard Snape hiss at Karkaroff.
"This," said Karkaroff, and Harry, peering around the edge of his cauldron, saw Karkaroff pull up the left-hand sleeve of his robe and show Snape something on his inner forearm.
"Well?" said Karkaroff, still making every effort not to move his lips.  "Do you see?  It


 snarled Snape, his black eyes sweeping the classroom.

 Karkaroff began in an agitated voice.

  spat Snape.  


 said Harry innocently, straightening up and showing Snape the sodden rag he was holding.
Karkaroff turned on his heel and strode out of the dungeon.  He looked both worried and angry.  Not wanting to remain alone with an exceptionally angry Snape, Harry threw his books and ingredients back into his bag and left at top speed to tell Ron and Hermione what he had just witnessed.

They left the castle at noon the next day to find a weak silver sun shining down upon the grounds.  The weather was milder than it had been all year, and by the time they arrived in Hogsmeade, all three of them had taken off their cloaks and thrown them over their shoulders. The food Sirius had told them to bring was in Harry's bag; they had sneaked a dozen chicken legs, a loaf of bread, and a flask of pumpkin juice from the lunch table.
They went into Gladrags Wizardwear to buy a present for Dobby, where they had fun selecting the most lurid socks they could find, including a pair patterned with flashing gold and silver stars, and another that screamed loudly when they became too smelly. Then, at half past one, they made their way up the High Street, past Dervish and Banges, and out toward the edge of the village.
Harry had never been in this direction before.  The winding lane was leading them out into the wild countryside around Hogsmeade.  The cottages were fewer here, and their gardens larger; they were walking toward the foot of the mountain in whose shadow Hogsmeade lay. Then they turned a corner and saw a stile at the end of the lane.  Waiting for them, its front paws on the topmost bar, was a very large, shaggy black dog, which was carrying some newspapers in its mouth and looking very familiar. . . .

 said Harry when they had reached him.
The black dog sniffed Harry's bag eagerly, wagged its tail once, then turned and began to trot away from them across the scrubby patch of ground that rose to meet the rocky foot of the mountain.  Harry, Ron, and Hermione climbed over the stile and followed.
Sirius led them to the very foot of the mountain, where the ground was covered with boulders and rocks.  It was easy for him, with his four paws, but Harry, Ron, and Hermione were soon out of breath.  They followed Sirius higher, up onto the mountain itself.  For nearly half an hour they climbed a steep, winding, and stony path, following Sirius's wagging tail, sweating in the sun, the shoulder straps of Harry's bag cutting into his shoulders.
Then, at last, Sirius slipped out of sight, and when they reached the place where he had vanished, they saw a narrow fissure in the rock.  They squeezed into it and found themselves in a cool, dimly lit cave.  Tethered at the end of it, one end of his rope around a large rock, was Buckbeak the hippogriff.  Half gray horse, half giant eagle, Buckbeak's fierce orange eye flashed at the sight of them.  All three of them bowed low to him, and after regarding them imperiously for a moment, Buckbeak bent his scaly front knees and allowed Hermione to rush forward and stroke his feathery neck.  Harry, however, was looking at the black dog, which had just turned into his godfather.
Sirius was wearing ragged gray robes; the same ones he had been wearing when he had left Azkaban.  His black hair was longer than it had been when he had appeared in the fire, and it was untidy and matted once more.  He looked very thin.

 he said hoarsely after removing the old Daily Prophets from his mouth and throwing them down onto the cave floor.
Harry pulled open his bag and handed over the bundle of chicken legs and bread.

 said Sirius, opening it, grabbing a drumstick, sitting down on the cave floor, and tearing off a large chunk with his teeth. 
ve been living off rats mostly.  Can
d draw attention to myself."
He grinned up at Harry, but Harry returned the grin only reluctantly.
"What
 he said.

 said Sirius, gnawing on the chicken bone in a very doglike way.  
t worry about it, I

He was still grinning, but seeing the anxiety in Harrys face, said more seriously, 
s just say things are getting fishier.  I
m not the only one who

He nodded at the yellowing Daily Prophets on the cave floor, and Ron picked them up and unfolded them. Harry, however, continued to stare at Sirius.

re seen?"
"You three and Dumbledore are the only ones around here who know I
 said Sirius, shrugging, and continuing to devour the chicken leg.
Ron nudged Harry and passed him the Daily Prophets.  There were two:  The first bore the headline Mystery Illness ofBartemius Crouch, the second, Ministry Witch Still Missing-Minister of Magic Now Personally Involved.
Harry scanned the story about Crouch.  Phrases jumped out at him: hasn't been seen in public since November. . . house appears deserted. . . St. Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries decline comment. . . Ministry refuses to confirm rumors of critical illness. . . .

re making it sound like he
 said Harry slowly.  
t be that ill if he managed to get up here. . . ."
"My brothers Crouch
 Ron informed Sirius.  


 said Harry slowly, still reading the story. 

 	
t he?" said Hermione, an edge to her voice.  She was stroking Buckbeak, who was crunching up Sirius
I bet he wishes he hadn't done it now - bet he feels the difference now she's not there to look after him.
Hermione's obsessed with house-elfs,
Crouch sacked his house-elf?
Yeah, at the Quidditch World Cup,
s appearance, and Winky being found with Harrys wand clutched in her hand, and Mr. Crouch
Let me get this straight,
You first saw the elfin the Top Box. She was saving Crouch a seat, right?
Right,
But Crouch didn't turn up for the match?
No,
I think he said he'd been too busy.
Harry, did you check your pockets for your wand after you'd left the Top Box?
Erm . . .
No,
I didn't need to use it before we got in the forest.  And then I put my hand in my pocket, and all that was in there were my Omnioculars.
Are you saying whoever conjured the Mark stole my wand in the Top Box?
It's possible,
Winky didn't steal that wand!
The elf wasn't the only one in that box,
Who else was sitting behind you?
Loads of people,
Some Bulgarian ministers .. . Cornelius Fudge ... the Malfoys ...
The Malfoys!
I bet it was Lucius Malfoy!
Anyone else?
No one,
Yes, there was, there was Ludo Bagman,
Oh yeah . . .
I don't know anything about Bagman except that he used to be Beater for the Wimbourne Wasps,
What's he like?
He's okay,
He keeps offering to help me with the Triwizard Tournament.
Does he, now?
I wonder why he'd do that?
Says he's taken a liking to me,
Hmm,
We saw him in the forest just before the Dark Mark appeared,
Remember?
Yeah, but he didn't stay in the forest, did he?
The moment we told him about the riot, he went off to the campsite.
How d'you know?
How d'you know where he Disapparated to?
Come off it,
Are you saying you reckon Ludo Bagman conjured the Dark Mark?
It's more likely he did it than Winky,
Told you,
told you she's obsessed with house -
When the Dark Mark had been conjured, and the elf had been discovered holding Harry's wand, what did Crouch do?
Went to look in the bushes,
but there wasn't anyone else there.
Of course,
of course, he'd want to pin it on anyone but his own elf... and then he sacked her?
Yes,
he sacked her, just because she hadn't stayed in her tent and let herself get trampled -
Hermione, will you give it a rest with the elf!
She's got the measure of Crouch better than you have, Ron.  If you want to know what a mans like, take a good look at how he treats his inferiors, not his equals.
All these absences of Barty Crouch's ... he goes to the trouble of making sure his house-elf saves him a seat at the Quidditch World Cup, but doesn't bother to turn up and watch.  He works very hard to reinstate the Triwizard Tournament, and then stops coming to that too. . . . It's not like Crouch.  If he's ever taken a day off work because of illness before this, I'll eat Buckbeak.
D'you know Crouch, then?
s face darkened.  He suddenly looked as menacing as he had the night when Harry first met him, the night when Harry still believed Sirius to be a murderer.
"Oh I know Crouch all right," he said quietly.  "He was the one who gave the order for me to be sent to Azkaban - without a trial."
"What?"  said Ron and Hermione together.
"You
 said Harry.

m not," said Sirius, taking another great bite of chicken.  "Crouch used to be Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, didn

Harry, Ron, and Hermione shook their heads.

 said Sirius. 
s a great wizard, Barty Crouch, powerfully magical - and power-hungry.  Oh never a Voldemort supporter," he said, reading the look on Harrys face.  "No, Barty Crouch was always very outspoken against the Dark Side.  But then a lot of people who were against the Dark Side . . . well, you wouldn
re too young. ..."
"That
 said Ron, with a trace of irritation in his voice. 
t you?"
A grin flashed across Sirius
All right, I'll try you. . . .
Imagine that Voldemort's powerful now.  You don't know who his supporters are, you don't know who's working for him and who isn't; you know he can control people so that they do terrible things without being able to stop themselves.  You're scared for yourself, and your family, and your friends.  Every week, news comes of more deaths, more disappearances, more torturing . . . the Ministry of Magic's in disarray, they don't know what to do, they're trying to keep everything hidden from the Muggles, but meanwhile, Muggles are dying too.  Terror everywhere . . . panic . . . confusion . . . that's how it used to be.

s principles might
t know.  He rose quickly through the Ministry, and he started ordering very harsh measures against Voldemorts supporters.  The Aurors were given new powers - powers to kill rather than capture, for instance.  And I wasn
  Sirius smiled grimly.  
s own son was caught with a group of Death Eaters who


s son was caught?"  gasped Hermione.
"Yep," said Sirius, throwing his chicken bone to Buckbeak, flinging himself back down on the ground beside the loaf of bread, and tearing it in half.  "Nasty little shock for old Barty, I
t he?  Ought to have left the office early once in a while . . . gotten to know his own son."
He began to wolf down large pieces of bread. 
"Was his son a Death Eater?" said Harry.
"No idea," said Sirius, still stuffing down bread.  "I was in Azkaban myself when he was brought in.  This is mostly stuff I
d bet my life were Death Eaters - but he might have been in the wrong place at the wrong time, just like the house-elf." 
"Did Crouch try and get his son off?" Hermione whispered. 
Sirius let out a laugh that was much more like a bark. 
"Crouch let his son off?  I thought you had the measure of him, Hermione!  Anything that threatened to tarnish his reputation had to go; he had dedicated his whole life to becoming Minister of Magic.  You saw him dismiss a devoted house-elf because she associated him with the Dark Mark again - doesn
s like?  Crouch
t much more than an excuse for Crouch to show how much he hated the boy . . . then he sent him straight to Azkaban."
"He gave his own son to the dementors?" asked Harry quietly. 
"That
 said Sirius, and he didn't look remotely amused now.  
t have been more than nineteen.  They took him into a cell near mine.  He was screaming for his mother by nightfall.  He went quiet after a few days, though . . .they all went quiet in the end. . . except when they shrieked in their sleep. ..."
For a moment, the deadened look in Sirius
So he's still in Azkaban?
No,
No, he's not in there anymore.  He died about a year after they brought him in.
He died?
He wasn't the only one,
Most go mad in there, and plenty stop eating in the end.  They lose the will to live.  You could always tell when a death was coming, because the dementors could sense it, they got excited.  That boy looked pretty sickly when he arrived.  Crouch being an important Ministry member, he and his wife were allowed a deathbed visit.  That was the last time I saw Barty Crouch, half carrying his wife past my cell.  She died herself, apparently, shortly afterward.  Grief.  Wasted away just like the boy.  Crouch never came for his sons body.  The dementors buried him outside the fortress; I watched them do it.
So old Crouch lost it all, just when he thought he had it made,
One moment, a hero, poised to become Minister of Magic...next, his son dead, his wife dead, the family name dishonored, and, so I've heard since I escaped, a big drop in popularity.  Once the boy had died, people started feeling a bit more sympathetic toward the son and started asking how a nice young lad from a good family had gone so badly astray.  The conclusion was that his father never cared much for him.  So Cornelius Fudge got the top job, and Crouch was shunted sideways into the Department of International Magical Cooperation.
s eyes had bulged as he
Moody says Crouch is obsessed with catching Dark wizards,
Yeah, I've heard it's become a bit of a mania with him,
If you ask me, he still thinks he can bring back the old popularity by catching one more Death Eater.
And he sneaked up here to search Snape's office!
Yes, and that doesn't make sense at all,
Yeah, it does!
Listen, if Crouch wants to investigate Snape, why hasn't he been coming to judge the tournament?  It would be an ideal excuse to make regular visits to Hogwarts and keep an eye on him.
So you think Snape could be up to something, then?
Look, I don't care what you say, Dumbledore trusts Snape -
Oh give it a rest, Hermione,
I know Dumbledores brilliant and everything, but that doesn't mean a really clever Dark wizard couldn't fool him -
Why did Snape save Harry's life in the first year, then?  Why didn't he just let him die?
I dunno - maybe he thought Dumbledore would kick him out-
What d'you think, Sirius?
I think they've both got a point,
Ever since I found out Snape was teaching here, I've wondered why Dumbledore hired him. Snape's always been fascinated by the Dark Arts, he was famous for it at school.  Slimy, oily, greasy-haired kid, he was,
Snape knew more curses when he arrived at school than half the kids in seventh year, and he was part of a gang of Slytherins who nearly all turned out to be Death Eaters.
Rosier and Wilkes - they were both killed by Aurors the year before Voldemort fell. The Lestranges - they're a married couple - they're in Azkaban.  Avery - from what I've heard he wormed his way out of trouble by saying he'd been acting under the Imperius Curse - he's still at large.  But as far as I know, Snape was never even accused of being a Death Eater - not that that means much.  Plenty of them were never caught.  And Snape s certainly clever and cunning enough to keep himself out of trouble.
Snape knows Karkaroff pretty well, but he wants to keep that quiet,
Yeah, you should've seen Snape's face when Karkaroff turned up in Potions yesterday!
Karkaroff wanted to talk to Snape, he says Snape's been avoiding him.  Karkaroff looked really worried.  He showed Snape something on his arm, but I couldn't see what it was.
  said Sirius, looking frankly bewildered.  He ran his fingers distractedly through his filthy hair, then shrugged again.  
ve no idea what that
s going to Snape for answers ..."
Sirius stared at the cave wall, then made a grimace of frustration.
"There
t, but I just can
d ever worked for Voldemort."
"Why are Moody and Crouch so keen to get into Snapes office then?"  said Ron stubbornly.
"Well," said Sirius slowly, "I wouldn
s office when he got to Hogwarts.  He takes his Defense Against the Dark Arts seriously, Moody.  I
s seen, it
ll say this for Moody, though, he never killed if he could help it.  Always brought people in alive where possible.  He was tough, but he never descended to the level of the Death Eaters.  Crouch, though . . . he
s office?  And if he
s he up to?  What was he doing at the World Cup that was so important he didn
s he been doing while he should have been judging the tournament?"
Sirius lapsed into silence, still staring at the cave wall.  Buckbeak was ferreting around on the rocky floor, looking for bones he might have overlooked.  Finally, Sirius looked up at Ron.
"You say your brother s Crouch
s seen Crouch lately?"
"I can try," said Ron doubtfully. "Better not make it sound like I reckon Crouch is up to anything dodgy, though. Percy loves Crouch."
"And you might try and find out whether they
re at it," said Sirius, gesturing to the second copy of the Daily Prophet.
"Bagman told me they hadn
 said Harry.

s quoted in the article in there," said Sirius, nodding at the paper. "Blustering on about how bad Bertha
s changed since I knew her, but the Bertha I knew wasn
s why Bagman didn

Sirius heaved an enormous sigh and rubbed his shadowed eyes.

s the time?"
Harry checked his watch, then remembered it hadn
It's half past three,
You'd better get back to school,
Now listen . . .
I don't want you lot sneaking out of school to see me, all right?  Just send notes to me here.  I still want to hear about anything odd.  But you're not to go leaving Hogwarts without permission; it would be an ideal opportunity for someone to attack you.
No one's tried to attack me so far, except a dragon and a couple of grindylows,
I don't care . . . I'll breathe freely again when this tournament's over, and that's not until June.  And don't forget, if you're talking about me among yourselves, call me Snuffles, okay?
I'll walk to the edge of the village with you,
see if I can scrounge another paper.
Wonder if Percy knows all that stuff about Crouch?
But maybe he doesn't care . . . It'd probably just make him admire Crouch even more.  Yeah, Percy loves rules.  He'd just say Crouch was refusing to break them for his own son.
Percy would never throw any of his family to the dementors,
I don't know,
If he thought we were standing in the way of his career .. . Percy's really ambitious, you know. ...
Poor old Snuffles,
He must really like you.  Harry. . . . Imagine having to live off rats.
d had a job.  When they had watched her fly out of sight through the Owlery window, they proceeded down to the kitchen to give Dobby his new socks.
The house-elves gave them a very cheery welcome, bowing and curtsying and bustling around making tea again.  Dobby was ecstatic about his present.
"Harry Potter is too good to Dobby!" he squeaked, wiping large tears out of his enormous eyes.
"You saved my life with that gillyweed, Dobby, you really did," said Harry.
"No chance of more of those eclairs, is there?"  said Ron, who was looking around at the beaming and bowing house-elves.
"You
 said Hermione irritably, but a great silver platter of eclairs was already zooming toward them, supported by four elves.

 Harry muttered.

 said Ron. 
t give us a bit of extra food, could you?"  he said to the surrounding elves, and they bowed delightedly and hurried off to get some more.
"Dobby, where
 said Hermione, who was looking around.

 said Dobby quietly, his ears drooping slightly.

 said Hermione as she spotted Winky.
Harry looked over at the fireplace too.  Winky was sitting on the same stool as last time, but she had allowed herself to become so filthy that she was not immediately distinguishable from the smoke-blackened brick behind her.  Her clothes were ragged and unwashed.  She was clutching a bottle of butterbeer and swaying slightly on her stool, staring into the fire.  As they watched her, she gave an enormous hiccup.

 Dobby whispered to Harry.

s not strong, that stuff," Harry said.
But Dobby shook his head. "
 he said.
Winky hiccuped again. The elves who had brought the eclairs gave her disapproving looks as they returned to work.

 Dobby whispered sadly.  


 said Harry, struck by a sudden inspiration, walking over to her, and bending down, 
t know what Mr. Crouch might be up to, do you?  Because he

Winky's eyes flickered. Her enormous pupils focused on Harry.  She swayed slightly again and then said,  


 said Harry, 
t seen him since the first task.  The Daily Prophet
s ill."
Winky swayed some more, staring blurrily at Harry.
"Master- hic- ill?"
Her bottom lip began to tremble.
"But we
s true," said Hermione quickly.
"Master is needing his - hie - Winky!"  whimpered the elf.  "Master cannot - hic - manage - hic - all by himself. . . ."
"Other people manage to do their own housework, you know, Winky," Hermione said severely.
"Winky - hic - is not only - hic - doing housework for Mr. Crouch!"  Winky squeaked indignantly, swaying worse than ever and slopping butterbeer down her already heavily stained blouse.  "Master is - hic - trusting Winky with - hic - the most important - hic - the most secret..."
"What?" said Harry.
But Winky shook her head very hard, spilling more butterbeer down herself.
"Winky keeps - hic - her master
 she said mutinously, swaying very heavily now, frowning up at Harry with her eyes crossed.  


  said Dobby angrily.  


s - hic - private and secret - hic - Winky is a good house-elf- hic - Winky keeps her silence - hic - people trying to - hic - pry and poke - hic -"
Winky
We is sorry you had to see that, sirs and miss!
We is hoping you will not judge us all by Winky, sirs and miss!
She's unhappy!
Why don't you try and cheer her up instead of covering her up?
Begging your pardon, miss,
but house-elves has no right to be unhappy when there is work to be done and masters to be served.
Oh for heavens sake!
Listen to me, all of you!  You've got just as much right as wizards to be unhappy!  You've got the right to wages and holidays and proper clothes, you don't have to do everything you're told - look at Dobby!
Miss will please keep Dobby out of this,
We has your extra food!
s elbow, and he shoved a large ham, a dozen cakes, and some fruit into Harry
Good-bye!
Thank you for the socks, Harry Potter!
You couldn't keep your mouth shut, could you, Hermione?
They won't want us visiting them now!  We could've tried to get more stuff out of Winky about Crouch!
Oh as if you care about that!
You only like coming down here for the food!
s food up to the Owlery that evening on his own.
Pigwidgeon was much too small to carry an entire ham up to the mountain by himself, so Harry enlisted the help of two school screech owls as well.  When they had set off into the dusk, looking extremely odd carrying the large package between them.  Harry leaned on the windowsill, looking out at the grounds, at the dark, rustling treetops of the Forbidden Forest, and the rippling sails of the Durmstrang ship.  An eagle owl flew through the coil of smoke rising from Hagrids chimney; it soared toward the castle, around the Owlery, and out of sight. Looking down, Harry saw Hagrid digging energetically in front of his cabin.  Harry wondered what he was doing; it looked as though he were making a new vegetable patch.  As he watched, Madame Maxime emerged from the Beauxbatons carriage and walked over to Hagrid.  She appeared to be trying to engage him in conversation.  Hagrid leaned upon his spade, but did not seem keen to prolong their talk, because Madame Maxime returned to the carriage shortly afterward.
Unwilling to go back to Gryffindor Tower and listen to Ron and Hermione snarling at each other, Harry watched Hagrid digging until the darkness swallowed him and the owls around Harry began to awake, swooshing past him into the night.

By breakfast the next day Ron
s bad moods had burnt out, and to Harrys relief, Ron
Percy won't've had time to answer yet,
We only sent Hedwig yesterday.
No, it's not that,
I've taken out a subscription to the Daily Prophet. I'm getting sick of finding everything out from the Slytherins.
Good thinking!
Hey, Hermione, I think you're in luck -
It hasn't got a newspaper, though,
It's -
How many subscriptions did you take out?
s goblet before it was knocked over by the cluster of owls, all of whom were jostling close to her, trying to deliver their own letter first.
"What on earth - ?" Hermione said, taking the letter from the gray owl, opening it, and starting to read.  "Oh really!" she sputtered, going rather red.
"What
 said Ron.

s - oh how ridiculous -"
She thrust the letter at Harry, who saw that it was not handwritten, but composed from pasted letters that seemed to have been cut out of the Daily Prophet.

YOU ARE A WICKED GIRL.  HARRY POTTER DESERVES
BETTER.  GO BACK WHERE YOU CAME FROM MUGGLE.

"They
  said Hermione desperately, opening one letter after another.  
Harry Potter can do much better than the likes of you. . . .
You deserve to be boiled in frog spawn. . . .

She had opened the last envelope, and yellowish-green liquid smelling strongly of petrol gushed over her hands, which began to erupt in large yellow boils.

 said Ron, picking up the envelope gingerly and sniffing it.

  said Hermione, tears starting in her eyes as she tried to rub the pus off her hands with a napkin, but her fingers were now so thickly covered in painful sores that it looked as though she were wearing a pair of thick, knobbly gloves.

d better get up to the hospital wing," said Harry as the owls around Hermione took flight.  "We
ve gone. . . ."
"I warned her!"  said Ron as Hermione hurried out of the Great Hall, cradling her hands. "I warned her not to annoy Rita Skeeter!  Look at this one ..."  He read out one of the letters Hermione had left behind: "I read In Witch Weekly about how you are playing Harry Potter false and that boy has had enough hardship and I will be sending you a curse by next post as soon as I can find a big enough envelope.
d better watch out for herself."
Hermione didn
Potter, have you split up with your girlfriend?  Why was she so upset at breakfast?
t want to give her the satisfaction of knowing how much trouble the Witch Weekly article had caused.
Hagrid, who had told them last lesson that they had finished with unicorns, was waiting for them outside his cabin with a fresh supply of open crates at his feet.  Harrys heart sank at the sight of the crates - surely not another skrewt hatching? - but when he got near enough to see inside, he found himself looking at a number of flurry black creatures with long snouts.  Their front paws were curiously flat, like spades, and they were blinking up at the class, looking politely puzzled at all the attention.
"These
 said Hagrid, when the class had gathered around.  
em down mines mostly.  They like sparkly stuff. . . . There yeh go, look."
One of the nifflers had suddenly leapt up and attempted to bite Pansy Parkinson
Useful little treasure detectors,
Thought we'd have some fun with 'em today.  See over there?
I've buried some gold coins.  I've got a prize fer whoever picks the niffler that digs up most.  Jus' take off all yer valuables, an' choose a niffler, an get ready ter set 'em loose.
t work anymore, and stuffed it into his pocket.  Then he picked up a niffler.  It put its long snout in Harry
Hang on,
there's a spare niffler here . . . who's missin?  Where's Hermione?
She had to go to the hospital wing,
We'll explain later,
s was particularly efficient; it had soon filled his lap with coins.
"Can you buy these as pets, Hagrid?"  he asked excitedly as his niffler dived back into the soil, splattering his robes.
"Yer mum wouldn
 said Hagrid, grinning.  
ve nearly got the lot, now," he added, pacing around the patch of earth while the nifflers continued to dive.  "I on
are, Hermione!"
Hermione was walking toward them across the lawn.  Her hands were very heavily bandaged and she looked miserable.  Pansy Parkinson was watching her beadily.
"Well, let
ve done!" said Hagrid.  "Count yer coins!  An
s no point tryin
 he added, his beetle-black eyes narrowed.  
s leprechaun gold.  Vanishes after a few hours."
Goyle emptied his pockets, looking extremely sulky.  It turned out that Ron
What yeh done ter your hands, Hermione?
Aaah, don worry,
I got some o' those letters an all, after Rita Skeeter wrote abou me mum.  'Yeh're a monster an yeh should be put down.'  'Yer mother killed innocent people an if you had any decency you d jump in a lake.'
No!
Yeah,
They're jus' nutters, Hermione.  Don' open 'em if yeh get any more.  Chuck 'em straigh' in the fire.
You missed a really good lesson,
They're good, nifflers, aren't they, Ron?
What's the matter?
Wrong flavor?
No,
Why didn't you tell me about the gold?
What gold?
The gold I gave you at the Quidditch World Cup,
The leprechaun gold I gave you for my Omnioculars.  In the Top Box.  Why didn't you tell me it disappeared?
Oh . . .
I dunno ... I never noticed it had gone.  I was more worried about my wand, wasn't I?
Must be nice,
To have so much money you don't notice if a pocketful of Galleons goes missing.
Listen, I had other stuff on my mind that night!
We all did, remember?
I didn't know leprechaun gold vanishes,
I thought I was paying you back.  You shouldn't've given me that Chudley Cannon hat for Christmas.
Forget it, all right?
I hate being poor.
It's rubbish,
I don't blame Fred and George for trying to make some extra money.  Wish I could.  Wish I had a niffler.
Well, we know what to get you next Christmas,
Come on, Ron, it could be worse.  At least your fingers aren't full of pus.
I hate that Skeeter woman!
I'll get her back for this if it's the last thing I do!
s advice and stopped opening it, several of her ill-wishers sent Howlers, which exploded at the Gryffindor table and shrieked insults at her for the whole Hall to hear.  Even those people who didn
t his girlfriend.
"It
 he told Hermione, 
I want to know how she's listening into private conversations when she's supposed to be banned from the grounds!
Well, Rita's definitely not using an Invisibility Cloak!
Moody says he didn't see her anywhere near the judges' table at the second task, or anywhere near the lake!
Hermione, is there any point in telling you to drop this?
No!
I want to know how she heard me talking to Viktor! And how she found out about Hagrids mum!
Maybe she had you bugged,
Bugged?
What. . . put fleas on her or something?
Aren't you two ever going to read Hogwarts, A History^
What's the point?
You know it by heart, we can just ask you.
All those substitutes for magic Muggles use - electricity, computers, and radar, and all those things - they all go haywire around Hogwarts, there's too much magic in the air.  No, Rita's using magic to eavesdrop, she must be. ... If I could just find out what it is ... ooh, if it's illegal, I'll have her ...
Haven't we got enough to worry about?
Do we have to start a vendetta against Rita Skeeter as well?
I'm not asking you to help!
I'll do it on my own!
What's the betting she comes back with a box of / Hate Rita Skeeter badges?
t return until the end of the Easter holidays.  Percy
s were the size of dragon eggs and full of homemade toffee.  Hermiones, however, was smaller than a chicken egg.  Her face fell when she saw it.
"Your mum doesn
  she asked quietly.

 said Ron, whose mouth was full of toffee. 

Hermione looked sadly at her tiny egg.

t you want to see what Percy
 Harry asked her hastily.
Percys letter was short and irritated.

As I am constantly telling the Daily Prophet, Mr. Crouch is taking a well-deserved break. He is sending in regular owls with instructions.  No, I haven't actually seen him, but I think I can be trusted to know my own superior's handwriting.  I have quite enough to do at the moment without trying to quash these ridiculous rumors.  Please don't bother me again unless it's something important.  Happy Easter.

The start of the summer term would normally have meant that Harry was training hard for the last Quidditch match of the season. This year, however, it was the third and final task in the Triwizard Tournament for which he needed to prepare, but he still didn't know what he would have to do.  Finally, in the last week of May, Professor McGonagall held him back in Transfiguration.

clock. Potter," she told him. "Mr. Bagman will be there to tell the champions about the third task."
So at half past eight that night. Harry left Ron and Hermione in Gryffindor Tower and went downstairs.  As he crossed the entrance hall, Cedric came up from the Hufflepuff common room.
"What d
s going to be?"  he asked Harry as they went together down the stone steps, out into the cloudy night.  "Fleur keeps going on about underground tunnels; she reckons we


t be too bad," said Harry, thinking that he would simply ask Hagrid for a niffler to do the job for him.
They walked down the dark lawn to the Quidditch stadium, turned through a gap in the stands, and walked out onto the field.
"What
 Cedric said indignantly, stopping dead.
The Quidditch field was no longer smooth and flat.  It looked as though somebody had been building long, low walls all over it that twisted and crisscrossed in every direction.

re hedges!" said Harry, bending to examine the nearest one.
"Hello there!" called a cheery voice.
Ludo Bagman was standing in the middle of the field with Krum and Fleur.  Harry and Cedric made their way toward them, climbing over the hedges.  Fleur beamed at Harry as he came nearer.  Her attitude toward him had changed completely since he had saved her sister from the lake.
"Well, what d
  said Bagman happily as Harry and Cedric climbed over the last hedge.  
t they?  Give them a month and Hagrid
t worry," he added, grinning, spotting the less-than-happy expressions on Harrys and Cedric
you'll have your Quidditch field back to normal once the task is over! Now, I imagine you can guess what we're making here?
Maze,
That's right!
A maze.  The third task's really very straightforward.  The Triwizard Cup will be placed in the center of the maze.  The first champion to touch it will receive full marks.
We seemply 'ave to get through the maze?
There will be obstacles,
Hagrid is providing a number of creatures . . . then there will be spells that must be broken ... all that sort of thing, you know.  Now, the champions who are leading on points will get a head start into the maze.
Then Mr. Krum will enter . . . then Miss Delacour.  But you'll all be in with a fighting chance, depending how well you get past the obstacles.  Should be fun, eh?
Very well. . . if you haven't got any questions, we'll go back up to the castle, shall we, it's a bit chilly. ...
Could I haff a vord?
Yeah, all right,
Vill you valk vith me?
Okay,
I'll wait for you. Harry, shall I?
No, it's okay, Mr. Bagman,
I think I can find the castle on my own, thanks.
What're we going this way for?
Don't vont to be overheard,
 paddock, Krum stopped in the shade of the trees and turned to face Harry.
"I vant to know," he said, glowering, "vot there is between you and Hermy-own-ninny."
Harry, who from Krum
Nothing,
We're friends.  She's not my girlfriend and she never has been.  It's just that Skeeter woman making things up.
Hermy-own-ninny talks about you very often,
Yeah,
because were friends.
t quite believe he was having this conversation with Viktor Krum, the famous International Quidditch player.  It was as though the eighteen-year-old Krum thought he. Harry, was an equal - a real rival -
"You haff never . . . you haff not..."
"No," said Harry very firmly.
Krum looked slightly happier.  He stared at Harry for a few seconds, then said, "You fly very veil.  I vos votching at the first task."
"Thanks," said Harry, grinning broadly and suddenly feeling much taller himself.  "I saw you at the Quidditch World Cup.  The Wronski Feint, you really -"
But something moved behind Krum in the trees, and Harry, who had some experience of the sort of thing that lurked in the forest, instinctively grabbed Krum
Vot is it?
d seen movement.  He slipped his hand inside his robes, reaching for his wand.
Suddenly a man staggered out from behind a tall oak.  For a moment, Harry didn
s hand and pulled him across the road to avoid him; Uncle Vernon had then treated the family to a long rant about what he would like to do with beggars and vagrants.
"Vosn
 said Krum, staring at Mr. Crouch.  
t he vith your Ministry?"
Harry nodded, hesitated for a moment, then walked slowly toward Mr. Crouch, who did not look at him, but continued to talk to a nearby tree.
"... and when you


 said Harry cautiously.

s bringing, now Karkaroff

Mr. Crouch's eyes were bulging.  He stood staring at the tree, muttering soundlessly at it.  Then he staggered sideways and fell to his knees.

 Harry said loudly. 

Crouch's eyes were rolling in his head.  Harry looked around at Krum, who had followed him into the trees, and was looking down at Crouch in alarm.



 Harry muttered.  
d better go and get someone -"
"Dumbledore!" gasped Mr. Crouch. He reached out and seized a handful of Harrys robes, dragging him closer, though his eyes were staring over Harry
I need... see ... Dumbledore. ...
Okay,
if you get up, Mr. Crouch, we can go up to the-
I've done . . . stupid . . . thing . . .
Must. . . tell. . . Dumbledore . . .
Get up, Mr. Crouch,
Get up, I'll take you to Dumbledore!
s eyes rolled forward onto Harry.
"Who ... you?" he whispered.
"I
 said Harry, looking around at Krum for some help, but Krum was hanging back, looking extremely nervous.

re not... his?" whispered Crouch, his mouth sagging.
"No," said Harry, without the faintest idea what Crouch was talking about.
"Dumbledore


s right," said Harry.
Crouch was pulling him closer; Harry tried to loosen Crouch
Warn ... Dumbledore ...
I'll get Dumbledore if you let go of me,
Just let go, Mr. Crouch, and I'll get him.. . .
Thank you, Weatherby, and when you have done that, I would like a cup of tea.  My wife and son will be arriving shortly, we are attending a concert tonight with Mr. and Mrs. Fudge.
t notice that Crouch had released him.
"Yes, my son has recently gained twelve O.W.L.S, most satisfactory, yes, thank you, yes, very proud indeed.  Now, if you could bring me that memo from the Andorran Minister of Magic, I think I will have time to draft a response. ..."
"You stay here with him!"  Harry said to Krum.  "I
ll be quicker, I know where his office is -"
"He is mad," said Krum doubtfully, staring down at Crouch, who was still gabbling to the tree, apparently convinced it was Percy.
"Just stay with him," said Harry, starting to get up, but his movement seemed to trigger another abrupt change in Mr. Crouch, who seized him hard around the knees and pulled Harry back to the ground.
"Don
  he whispered, his eyes bulging again.  


ll get Dumbledore if you let me go, Mr. Crouch!" said Harry. He looked furiously around at Krum. "Help me, will you?"
Looking extremely apprehensive, Krum moved forward and squatted down next to Mr. Crouch.
"Just keep him here," said Harry, pulling himself free of Mr. Crouch.  "I


t you?"  Krum called after him as Harry sprinted away from the forest and up through the dark grounds.  They were deserted; Bagman, Cedric, and Fleur had disappeared.  Harry tore up the stone steps, through the oak front doors, and off up the marble staircase, toward the second floor.
Five minutes later he was hurtling toward a stone gargoyle standing halfway along an empty corridor.
"Sher - sherbet lemon!" he panted at it.
This was the password to the hidden staircase to Dumbledore
Move!
C'mon!
POTTER!
What are you doing here, Potter?
I need to see Professor Dumbledore!
It's Mr. Crouch . . . he's just turned up ... he's in the forest... he's asking -
What is this rubbish?
What are you talking about?
Mr. Crouch!
From the Ministry!  He's ill or something - he's in the forest, he wants to see Dumbledore!  Just give me the password up to -
The headmaster is busy. Potter,
I've got to tell Dumbledore!
Didn't you hear me. Potter?
Look,
Crouch isn't right - he's - he's out of his mind - he says he wants to warn -
Is there a problem?
Professor!
Mr. Crouch is here - he's down in the forest, he wants to speak to you!
Lead the way,
What did Mr. Crouch say. Harry?
Said he wants to warn you . . . said he's done something terrible ... he mentioned his son . . . and Bertha Jorkins .. . and - and Voldemort. . . something about Voldemort getting stronger. ...
Indeed,
He's not acting normally,
He doesn't seem to know where he is.  He keeps talking like he thinks Percy Weasley's there, and then he changes, and says he needs to see you. ... I left him with Viktor Krum.
You did?
Do you know if anybody else saw Mr. Crouch?
No,
Krum and I were talking, Mr. Bagman had just finished telling us about the third task, we stayed behind, and then we saw Mr. Crouch coming out of the forest -
Where are they?
Over here,
t hear Crouch
t been much past the Beauxbatons carriage . . . somewhere around here. . . .
"Viktor?"  Harry shouted.
No one answered.
"They were here," Harry said to Dumbledore.  "They were definitely somewhere around here. ..."
"Lumos," Dumbledore said, lighting his wand and holding it up.
Its narrow beam traveled from black trunk to black trunk, illuminating the ground.  And then it fell upon a pair of feet.
Harry and Dumbledore hurried forward.  Krum was sprawled on the forest floor.  He seemed to be unconscious.  There was no sign at all of Mr. Crouch.  Dumbledore bent over Krum and gently lifted one of his eyelids.
"Stunned," he said softly. His half-moon glasses glittered in the wandlight as he peered around at the surrounding trees.
"Should I go and get someone?"  said Harry.  "Madam Pomfrey?"
"No," said Dumbledore swiftly.  "Stay here."
He raised his wand into the air and pointed it in the direction of Hagrid
Ennervate.
He attacked me!
The old madman attacked me!  I vos looking around to see vare Potter had gone and he attacked from behind!
Lie still for a moment,
Professor Dumbledore!
Harry - what the - ?
Hagrid, I need you to fetch Professor Karkaroff,
His student has been attacked.  When you've done that, kindly alert Professor Moody -
No need, Dumbledore,
I'm here.
Damn leg,
Would've been here quicker . . . what's happened? Snape said something about Crouch -
Crouch?
Karkaroff, please, Hagrid!
Oh yeah . .'. right y'are, Professor. . .
I don't know where Barty Crouch is,
but it is essential that we find him.
I'm onto it,
What is this?
What's going on?
I vos attacked!
Mr. Crouch or votever his name -
Crouch attacked you?  Crouch attacked you?  The Triwizard judge?
Igor,
Treachery!
It is a plot!  You and your Ministry of Magic have lured me here under false pretenses, Dumbledore!  This is not an equal competition!  First you sneak Potter into the tournament, though he is underage!  Now one of your Ministry friends attempts to put my champion out of action!  I smell double-dealing and corruption in this whole affair, and you, Dumbledore, you, with your talk of closer international
wizarding links, of rebuilding old ties, of forgetting old differences - here's what I think of you!
s feet.  In one swift movement, Hagrid seized the front of Karkaroff
Apologize!
s massive fist at his throat, his feet dangling in midair.
"Hagrid, no!" Dumbledore shouted, his eyes flashing.
Hagrid removed the hand pinning Karkaroff to the tree, and Karkaroff slid all the way down the trunk and slumped in a huddle at its roots; a few twigs and leaves showered down upon his head.
"Kindly escort Harry back up to the castle, Hagrid,"  said Dumbledore sharply.
Breathing heavily, Hagrid gave Karkaroff a glowering look.
"Maybe I


 Dumbledore repeated firmly.  


 said Harry, staring at him.  How had Dumbledore known that, at that very moment, he had been thinking about sending Pigwidgeon straight to Sirius, to tell him what had happened?

ll leave Fang with yeh. Headmaster," Hagrid said, staring menacingly at Karkaroff, who was still sprawled at the foot of the tree, tangled in furs and tree roots.  "Stay, Fang. C

They marched in silence past the Beauxbatons carriage and up toward the castle.

 Hagrid growled as they strode past the lake.  
d do anythin
 place.  Worried!  I dunno when I seen Dumbledore more worried than he
 you!"  Hagrid suddenly said angrily to Harry, who looked up at him, taken aback.  "What were yeh doin
 off with ruddy Krum?  He
 Moody taught yeh nothin
Magine lettin him lure yeh off on yer own -"
"Krum
  said Harry as they climbed the steps into the entrance hall.  
t trying to jinx me, he just wanted to talk about Hermione -"
"I
 a few words with her, an
 said Hagrid grimly, stomping up the stairs. 
ave ter do with these foreigners, the happier yeh
em."
"You were getting on all right with Madame Maxime," Harry said, annoyed.
"Don
 her!"  said Hagrid, and he looked quite frightening for a moment.  "I
 ter get back in me good books, tryin
s comin in the third task.  Ha!  You can
em!"
Hagrid was in such a bad mood, Harry was quite glad to say good-bye to him in front of the Fat Lady.  He clambered through the portrait hole into the common room and hurried straight for the corner where Ron and Hermione were sitting, to tell them what had happened.

CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE - THE DREAM

It comes down to this," said Hermione, rubbing her forehead.  "Either Mr. Crouch attacked Viktor, or somebody else attacked both of them when Viktor wasn


ve been Crouch," said Ron at once. "That
d done a runner."
"I don
 said Harry, shaking his head.  
t reckon he was up to Disapparating or anything."
"You cant Disapparate on the Hogwarts grounds, haven
 said Hermione.

 said Ron excitedly.  


 said Hermione coldly.


It was daybreak. Harry, Ron, and Hermione had crept out of their dormitories very early and hurried up to the Owlery together to send a note to Sirius.  Now they were standing looking out at the misty grounds.  All three of them were puffy-eyed and pale because they had been talking late into the night about Mr. Crouch.

 said Hermione.  


ve told you, he wasn
 said Harry.  


 said Hermione testily.

 said Harry.  


 said Ron tentatively.

ve told you," Harry repeated dully.  "He said he

There was a pause.  Then Ron said in a falsely confident voice, 


 said Harry, and Ron winced at the sound of the name.  

Harry turned away from the window and stared up into the rafters.  The many perches were half-empty; every now and then, another owl would swoop in through one of the windows, returning from its night's hunting with a mouse in its beak.

t held me up," Harry said bitterly, "we might
The headmaster is busy. Potter . . . what
  Why couldn


t want you to get there!" said Ron quickly.  "Maybe - hang on - how fast d
ve gotten down to the forest?  D
ve beaten you and Dumbledore there?"
"Not unless he can turn himself into a bat or something," said Harry.
"Wouldn
 Ron muttered.

 said Hermione.  


s Map on him, it would
 said Harry.

 said Ron, 
t -"
"Shh!" said Hermione suddenly.
Somebody was climbing the steps up to the Owlery.  Harry could hear two voices arguing, coming closer and closer.
"- that


ve tried being polite; it
t like the Ministry of Magic knowing what he did -"
"I
s blackmail!"
"Yeah, and you won

The Owlery door banged open. Fred and George came over the threshold, then froze at the sight of Harry, Ron, and Hermione.

re you doing here?"  Ron and Fred said at the same time.
"Sending a letter," said Harry and George in unison.
"What, at this time?"  said Hermione and Fred.
Fred grinned.
"Fine - we won
re doing, if you don
 he said.
He was holding a sealed envelope in his hands.  Harry glanced at it, but Fred, whether accidentally or on purpose, shifted his hand so that the name on it was covered.

t let us hold you up," Fred said, making a mock bow and pointing at the door.
Ron didn
Who're you blackmailing?
s face. Harry saw George half glance at Fred, before smiling at Ron.
"Don
 he said easily.

t sound like that," said Ron.
Fred and George looked at each other.  Then Fred said abruptly, "I
t see why you would, but -"
"It
re blackmailing someone," said Ron.  "George


 said George.  He walked over to Fred, pulled the letter out of his hands, and began attaching it to the leg of the nearest barn owl.  
re starting to sound a bit like our dear older brother, you are, Ron.  Carry on like this and you


t!" said Ron hotly.
George carried the barn owl over to the window and it took off.  George turned around and grinned at Ron.
"Well, stop telling people what to do then. See you later."
He and Fred left the Owlery.  Harry, Ron, and Hermione stared at one another.
"You don
  Hermione whispered. 


 said Harry.  
d tell someone. They

Ron, however, was looking uncomfortable.

s the matter?" Hermione asked him.
"Well. . ." said Ron slowly, "I dunno if they would.  They
re obsessed with making money lately, I noticed it when I was hanging around with them - when - you know -"
"We weren
 Harry finished the sentence for him. 


s this joke shop idea they
 said Ron.  
ve only got a year left at Hogwarts, they keep going on about how it
t help them, and they need gold to get started."
Hermione was looking uncomfortable now.
"Yes, but. . . they wouldn


t they?" said Ron, looking skeptical.  "I dunno . . . they don


 said Hermione, looking scared.  
t some silly school rule. . . . They
d better tell Percy. . . ."
"Are you mad?"  said Ron.  "Tell Percy?  He
 He stared at the window through which Fred and George's owl had departed, then said, 
s get some breakfast."
"D
s too early to go and see Professor Moody?"  Hermione said as they went down the spiral staircase.
"Yes," said Harry.  "He
ll think we
s asleep.  Let

History of Magic had rarely gone so slowly.  Harry kept checking Ron's watch, having finally discarded his own, but Ron's was moving so slowly he could have sworn it had stopped working too.  All three of them were so tired they could happily have put their heads down on the desks and slept; even Hermione wasn't taking her usual notes, but was sitting with her head on her hand, gazing at Professor Binns with her eyes out of focus.
When the bell finally rang, they hurried out into the corridors toward the Dark Arts classroom and found Professor Moody leaving it.  He looked as tired as they felt.  The eyelid of his normal eye was drooping, giving his face an even more lopsided appearance than usual.

  Harry called as they made their way toward him through the crowd.

 growled Moody.  His magical eye followed a couple of passing first years, who sped up, looking nervous; it rolled into the back of Moody's head and watched them around the corner before he spoke again.


He stood back to let them into his empty classroom, limped in after them, and closed the door.

  Harry asked without preamble.  


 said Moody.  He moved over to his desk, sat down, stretched out his wooden leg with a slight groan, and pulled out his hip flask.

 Harry said.

 said Moody, taking a swig from his flask. 
t anywhere on there."
"So he did Disapparate?"  said Ron.
"You can
 said Hermione. 
t there, Professor?"
Moody
You're another one who might think about a career as an Auror,
Mind works the right way. Granger.
Well, he wasn't invisible,
The map shows invisible people.  He must've left the grounds, then.
But under his own steam?
or because someone made him?
Yeah, someone could've - could've pulled him onto a broom and flown off with him, couldn't they?
We can't rule out kidnap,
So,
d'you reckon he's somewhere in Hogsmeade?
Could be anywhere,
Only thing we know for sure is that he's not here.
Now, Dumbledore's told me you three fancy yourselves as investigators, but there's nothing you can do for Crouch.  The Ministry'll be looking for him now, Dumbledore's notified them.  Potter, you just keep your mind on the third task.
What?
Oh yeah . . .
t given the maze a single thought since he
Should be right up your street, this one,
From what Dumbledore's said, you've managed to get through stuff like this plenty of times.  Broke your way through a series of obstacles guarding the Sorcerers Stone in your first year, didn't you?
We helped,
Me and Hermione helped.
Well, help him practice for this one, and I'll be very surprised if he doesn't win,
In the meantime .. . constant vigilance, Potter.  Constant vigilance.
You two,
you stick close to Potter, all right? I'm keeping an eye on things, but all the same . . . you can never have too many eyes out.
Ha!  She hasn't got wind of Crouch!
t get into the Goblet of Fire by accident.  If someone
re on their last chance.  Stay close to Ron and Hermione, do not leave Gryffindor Tower after hours, and arm yourself for the third task.  Practice Stunning and Disarming.  A few hexes wouldn
s nothing you can do about Crouch.  Keep your head down and look after yourself.  I
t stray out-of-bounds again.
				Sirius

"Who
  said Harry in mild indignation as he folded up Sirius's letter and put it inside his robes.  


s worried about you!"  said Hermione sharply.  "Just like Moody and Hagrid!  So listen to them!"
"No one
 said Harry. 
s done anything to me at 
all-"
"Except put your name in the Goblet of Fire," said Hermione.  "And they must
ve been biding their time.  Maybe this is the task they


 said Harry impatiently, 
s say Sirius is right, and someone Stunned Krum to kidnap Crouch.  Well, they would
t they?  But they waited till I was out of the way until they acted, didn
t look like I


t have made it look like an accident if they
 said Hermione.  


t care about attacking Krum, did they?"  said Harry.  "Why didn
ve made it look like Krum and I had a duel or something."
"Harry, I don
 said Hermione desperately.  
t like it. ... Moody
ve got to get in training for the third task, straight away.  And you make sure you write back to Sirius and promise him you


The Hogwarts grounds never looked more inviting than when Harry had to stay indoors. For the next few days he spent all of his free time either in the library with Hermione and Ron, looking up hexes, or else in empty classrooms, which they sneaked into to practice.  Harry was concentrating on the Stunning Spell, which he had never used before.  The trouble was that practicing it involved certain sacrifices on Ron's and Hermione's part.

t we kidnap Mrs. Norris?" Ron suggested on Monday lunchtime as he lay flat on his back in the middle of their Charms classroom, having just been Stunned and reawoken by Harry for the fifth time in a row.  "Let
d do anything to help you.  I
 - he got gingerly to his feet, rubbing his backside - 
m aching all over. ..."
"Well, you keep missing the cushions, don
  said Hermione impatiently, rearranging the pile of cushions they had used for the Banishing Spell, which Flitwick had left in a cabinet.  


re Stunned, you can
said Ron angrily.  
t you take a turn?"
"Well, I think Harry
 said Hermione hastily.  
t have to worry about Disarming, because he

She looked down the list they had made in the library.

 she said, 
s trying to attack you.  Harry.  We

The bell rang. They hastily shoved the cushions back into Flitwicks cupboard and slipped out of the classroom.

  said Hermione, and she set off for Arithmancy, while Harry and Ron headed toward North Tower, and Divination.  Broad strips of dazzling gold sunlight tell across the corridor from the high windows.  The sky outside was so brightly blue it looked as though it had been enameled.

s going to be boiling in Trelawney
 said Ron as they started up the staircase toward the silver ladder and the trapdoor.
He was quite right.  The dimly lit room was swelteringly hot.  The fumes from the perfumed fire were heavier than ever.  Harrys head swam as he made his way over to one of the curtained windows.  While Professor Trelawney was looking the other way, disentangling her shawl from a lamp, he opened it an inch or so and settled back in his chintz armchair, so that a soft breeze played across his face. It was extremely comfortable.

 said Professor Trelawney, sitting down in her winged armchair in front of the class and peering around at them all with her strangely enlarged eyes, 

She waved her wand and the lamps went out.  The fire was the only source of light now.  Professor Trelawney bent down and lifted, from under her chair, a miniature model of the solar system, contained within a glass dome.  It was a beautiful thing; each of the moons glimmered in place around the nine planets and the fiery sun, all of them hanging in thin air beneath the glass.  Harry watched lazily as Professor Trelawney began to point out the fascinating angle Mars was making to Neptune.  The heavily perfumed fumes washed over him, and the breeze from the window played across his face.  He could hear an insect humming gently somewhere behind the curtain.  His eyelids began to droop. . . .
He was riding on the back of an eagle owl, soaring through the clear blue sky toward an old, ivy-covered house set high on a hillside.  Lower and lower they flew, the wind blowing pleasantly in Harry's face, until they reached a dark and broken window in the upper story of the house and entered.  Now they were flying along a gloomy passageway, to a room at the very end . . . through the door they went, into a dark room whose windows were boarded up....
Harry had left the owl's back... he was watching, now, as it fluttered across the room, into a chair with its back to him. . . . There were two dark shapes on the floor beside the chair . . . both of them were stirring. . . .
One was a huge snake . . . the other was a man ... a short, balding man, a man with watery eyes and a pointed nose ... he was wheezing and sobbing on the hearth rug. . . .

 said a cold, high-pitched voice from the depths of the chair in which the owl had landed.  


 gasped the man on the floor.  


 said the cold voice, 

The snake hissed. Harry could see its tongue fluttering.

 said the cold voice, 



The tip of a wand emerged from around the back of the chair.  It was pointing at Wormtail.

 said the cold voice.
Wormtail screamed, screamed as though every nerve in his body were on fire, the screaming filled Harry's ears as the scar on his forehead seared with pain; he was yelling too...Voldemort would hear him, would know he was there. . . .


Harry opened his eyes.  He was lying on the floor of Professor Trelawney's room with his hands over his face.  His scar was still burning so badly that his eyes were watering.  The pain had been real.  The whole class was standing around him, and Ron was kneeling next to him, looking terrified.

 he said.

t!" said Professor Trelawney, looking thoroughly excited.  Her great eyes loomed over Harry, gazing at him.  "What was it. Potter?  A premonition?  An apparition? What did you see?"
"Nothing,"  Harry lied.  He sat up.  He could feel himself shaking.  He couldn
You were clutching your scar!
You were rolling on the floor, clutching your scar!  Come now.  Potter, I have experience in these matters!
I need to go to the hospital wing, I think,
Bad headache.
My dear, you were undoubtedly stimulated by the extraordinary clairvoyant vibrations of my room!
If you leave now, you may lose the opportunity to see further than you have ever -
I don't want to see anything except a headache cure,
See you later,
s office.  He marched down the corridors, thinking about what he had seen in the dream . . . it had been as vivid as the one that had awoken him on Privet Drive. . . . He ran over the details in his mind, trying to make sure he could remember them. . . . He had heard Voldemort accusing Wormtail of making a blunder . . . but the owl had brought good news, the blunder had been repaired, somebody was dead ... so Wormtail was not going to be fed to the snake . . . he, Harry, was going to be fed to it instead. . . .
Harry had walked right past the stone gargoyle guarding the entrance to Dumbledores office without noticing.  He blinked, looked around, realized what he had done, and retraced his steps, stopping in front of it.  Then he remembered that he didn
Sherbet lemon?
Okay,
Pear Drop.  Er - Licorice Wand.  Fizzing Whizbee. Drooble's Best Blowing Gum.  Bertie Bott's Every Flavor Beans ... oh no, he doesn't like them, does he?... oh just open, can't you?
I really need to see him, its urgent!
Chocolate Frog!
Sugar Quill!  Cockroach Cluster!
Cockroach Cluster?
I was only joking. ...
Dumbledore, I'm afraid I don't see the connection, don't see it at all!
Ludo says Berthas perfectly capable of getting herself lost.  I agree we would have expected to have found her by now, but all the same, we've no evidence of foul play, Dumbledore, none at all.  As for her disappearance being linked with Barty Crouch's!
And what do you thinks happened to Barty Crouch, Minister?
s growling voice.
"I see two possibilities, Alastor," said Fudge.  "Either Crouch has finally cracked - more than likely, I
ll agree, given his personal history - lost his mind, and gone wandering off somewhere -"
"He wandered extremely quickly, if that is the case, Cornelius," said Dumbledore calmly.
"Or else - well..." Fudge sounded embarrassed.  "Well, I
ve seen the place where he was found, but you say it was just past the Beauxbatons carriage? Dumbledore, you know what that woman is?"
"I consider her to be a very able headmistress - and an excellent dancer," said Dumbledore quietly.
"Dumbledore, come!"  said Fudge angrily.  "Don
t all turn out harmless - if, indeed, you can call Hagrid harmless, with that monster fixation he


 said Dumbledore, just as calmly.  


 growled Moody.

s go down to the grounds, then," said Fudge impatiently.
"No, it
 said Moody, 
s just that Potter wants a word with you, Dumbledore.  He


CHAPTER THIRTY - THE PENSIEVE 

The door of the office opened. 

 said Moody. 

Harry walked inside.  He had been inside Dumbledore's office once before; it was a very beautiful, circular room, lined with pictures of previous headmasters and headmistresses of Hogwarts, all of whom were fast asleep, their chests rising and falling gently.
Cornelius Fudge was standing beside Dumbledore's desk, wearing his usual pinstriped cloak and holding his lime-green bowler hat.

  said Fudge jovially, moving forward.  


 Harry lied.

 said Fudge.  


 said Harry.  Then, feeling it was pointless to pretend that he hadn't overheard what they had been saying, he added,  
t see Madame Maxime anywhere, though, and she
t she?"
Dumbledore smiled at Harry behind Fudge
Yes, well,
we're about to go for a short walk on the grounds, Harry, if you'll excuse us ... perhaps if you just go back to your class -
I wanted to talk to you. Professor,
Wait here for me, Harry,
Our examination of the grounds will not take long.
s wooden leg growing fainter in the corridor below.  He looked around.
"Hello, Fawkes," he said.
Fawkes, Professor Dumbledore
s desk.  For several minutes, he sat and watched the old headmasters and headmistresses snoozing in their frames, thinking about what he had just heard, and running his fingers over his scar.  It had stopped hurting now.
He felt much calmer, somehow, now that he was in Dumbledore
s House.  He was gazing at it, remembering how it had come to his aid when he had thought all hope was lost, when he noticed a patch of silvery light, dancing and shimmering on the glass case.  He looked around for the source of the light and saw a sliver of silver-white shining brightly from within a black cabinet behind him, whose door had not been closed properly.  Harry hesitated, glanced at Fawkes, then got up, walked across the office, and pulled open the cabinet door.
A shallow stone basin lay there, with odd carvings around the edge: runes and symbols that Harry did not recognize.  The silvery light was coming from the basin
t make up his mind.
He wanted to touch it, to find out what it felt like, but nearly four years
t Hogwarts; he had never seen a room like that here in the castle.  Moreover, the crowd in the mysterious room at the bottom of the basin was comprised of adults, and Harry knew there were not nearly that many teachers at Hogwarts. They seemed, he thought, to be waiting for something; even though he could only see the tops of their hats, all of their faces seemed to be pointing in one direction, and none of them were talking to one another.
The basin being circular, and the room he was observing square, Harry could not make out what was going on in the corners of it.  He leaned even closer, tilting his head, trying to see...
The tip of his nose touched the strange substance into which he was staring.
Dumbledore
Professor!
I'm sorry - I didn't mean to - I was just looking at that basin in your cabinet - I - where are we?
t move or speak.  He ignored Harry completely.  Like every other wizard on the benches, he was staring into the far corner of the room, where there was a door.
Harry gazed, nonplussed, at Dumbledore, then around at the silently watchful crowd, then back at Dumbledore.  And then it dawned on him. . . .
Once before. Harry had found himself somewhere that nobody could see or hear him. That time, he had fallen through a page in an enchanted diary, right into somebody else
s face.  Dumbledore did not blink, look around at Harry, or indeed move at all. And that, in Harry
t ignore him like that.  He was inside a memory, and this was not the present-day Dumbledore.  Yet it couldn
s insides went cold.  The dementors - tall, hooded creatures whose faces were concealed - were gliding slowly toward the chair in the center of the room, each grasping one of the man
t blame him ... he knew the dementors could not touch him inside a memory, but he remembered their power only too well.  The watching crowd recoiled slightly as the dementors placed the man in the chained chair and glided back out of the room.  The door swung shut behind them.
Harry looked down at the man now sitting in the chair and saw that it was Karkaroff.
Unlike Dumbledore, Karkaroff looked much younger; his hair and goatee were black. He was not dressed in sleek furs, but in thin and ragged robes.  He was shaking.  Even as Harry watched, the chains on the arms of the chair glowed suddenly gold and snaked their way up Karkaroff
Igor Karkaroff,
s left.  Harry looked around and saw Mr. Crouch standing up in the middle of the bench beside him.  Crouch
You have been brought from Azkaban to present evidence to the Ministry of Magic.  You have given us to understand that you have important information for us.
I have, sir,
I wish to be of use to the Ministry. I wish to help. I - I know that the Ministry is trying to - to round up the last of the Dark Lords supporters.  I am eager to assist in any way I can. ...
Filth.
Crouch is going to let him out,
He's done a deal with him.  Took me six months to track him down, and Crouch is going to let him go if he's got enough new names.  Let's hear his information, I say, and throw him straight back to the dementors.
Ah, I was forgetting . . . you don't like the dementors, do you, Albus?
No,
I'm afraid I don't.  I have long felt the Ministry is wrong to ally itself with such creatures.
But for filth like this . . .
You say you have names for us, Karkaroff,
Let us hear them, please.
You must understand,
that He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named operated always in the greatest secrecy. . . . He preferred that we - I mean to say, his supporters - and I regret now, very deeply, that I ever counted myself among them -
Get on with it,
- we never knew the names of every one of our fellows - He alone knew exactly who we all were -
Which was a wise move, wasn't it, as it prevented someone like you, Karkaroff, from turning all of them in,
Yet you say you have some names for us?
I - I do,
And these were important supporters, mark you.  People I saw with my own eyes doing his bidding.  I give this information as a sign that I fully and totally renounce him, and am filled with a remorse so deep I can barely -
These names are?
There was Antonin Dolohov,
I - I saw him torture countless Muggles and - and non-supporters of the Dark Lord.
And helped him do it,
We have already apprehended Dolohov,
He was caught shortly after yourself.
Indeed?
I - I am delighted to hear it!
t look it.  Harry could tell that this news had come as a real blow to him. One of his names was worthless.
"Any others?"  said Crouch coldly.
"Why, yes ... there was Rosier," said Karkaroff hurriedly. "Evan Rosier."
"Rosier is dead," said Crouch.  "He was caught shortly after you were too.  He preferred to fight rather than come quietly and was killed in the struggle."
"Took a bit of me with him, though," whispered Moody to Harry
No - no more than Rosier deserved!
s eyes darted toward the door in the corner, behind which the dementors undoubtedly still stood, waiting.
"Any more?"  said Crouch.
"Yes!"  said Karkaroff.  "There was Travers - he helped murder the McKinnons! Mulciber - he specialized in the Imperius Curse, forced countless people to do horrific things! Rookwood, who was a spy, and passed He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named useful information from inside the Ministry itself!"
Harry could tell that, this time, Karkaroff had struck gold. The watching crowd was all murmuring together.
"Rookwood?" said Mr. Crouch, nodding to a witch sitting in front of him, who began scribbling upon her piece of parchment.  "Augustus Rookwood of the Department of Mysteries?"
"The very same," said Karkaroff eagerly.  "I believe he used a network of well-placed wizards, both inside the Ministry and out, to collect information -"
"But Travers and Mulciber we have," said Mr. Crouch.  "Very well, Karkaroff, if that is all, you will be returned to Azkaban while we decide -"
"Not yet!" cried Karkaroff, looking quite desperate. "Wait, I have more!"
Harry could see him sweating in the torchlight, his white skin contrasting strongly with the black of his hair and beard.
"Snape!" he shouted. "Severus Snape!"
"Snape has been cleared by this council," said Crouch disdainfully.  "He has been vouched for by Albus Dumbledore."
"No!"  shouted Karkaroff, straining at the chains that bound him to the chair.  "I assure you!  Severus Snape is a Death Eater!"
Dumbledore had gotten to his feet.
"I have given evidence already on this matter," he said calmly.  "Severus Snape was indeed a Death Eater. However, he rejoined our side before Lord Voldemort

Harry turned to look at Mad-Eye Moody. He was wearing a look of deep skepticism behind Dumbledore's back.

 Crouch said coldly, 

Mr. Crouch's voice faded.  Harry looked around; the dungeon was dissolving as though it were made of smoke; everything was fading; he could see only his own body - all else was swirling darkness. . . .
And then, the dungeon returned.  Harry was sitting in a different seat, still on the highest bench, but now to the left side of Mr. Crouch.  The atmosphere seemed quite different: relaxed, even cheerful.  The witches and wizards all around the walls were talking to one another, almost as though they were at some sort of sporting event.  Harry noticed a witch halfway up the rows of benches opposite.  She had short blonde hair, was wearing magenta robes, and was sucking the end of an acid-green quill.  It was, unmistakably, a younger Rita Skeeter.  Harry looked around; Dumbledore was sitting beside him again, wearing different robes.  Mr. Crouch looked more tired and somehow fiercer, gaunter. . . . Harry understood. It was a different memory, a different day ... a different trial.
The door in the corner opened, and Ludo Bagman walked into the room.
This was not, however, a Ludo Bagman gone to seed, but a Ludo Bagman who was clearly at the height of his Quidditch-playing fitness.  His nose wasn't broken now; he was tall and lean and muscular.  Bagman looked nervous as he sat down in the chained chair, but it did not bind him there as it had bound Karkaroff, and Bagman, perhaps taking heart from this, glanced around at the watching crowd, waved at a couple of them, and managed a small smile.

 said Mr. Crouch.  

Harry couldn't believe his ears. Ludo Bagman, a Death Eater?

 said Bagman, smiling awkwardly, 
ve been a bit of an idiot -"
One or two wizards and witches in the surrounding seats smiled indulgently.  Mr. Crouch did not appear to share their feelings.  He was staring down at Ludo Bagman with an expression of the utmost severity and dislike.
"You never spoke a truer word, boy," someone muttered dryly to Dumbledore behind Harry.  He looked around and saw Moody sitting there again.  "If I didn
d always been dim, I


s supporters," said Mr. Crouch.  "For this, I suggest a term of imprisonment in Azkaban lasting no less than -"
But there was an angry outcry from the surrounding benches.  Several of the witches and wizards around the walls stood up, shaking their heads, and even their fists, at Mr. Crouch.
"But I
  Bagman called earnestly over the crowd's babble, his round blue eyes widening.  
s . . . never crossed my mind he was in with You-Know-Who!  I thought I was collecting information for our side!  And Rookwood kept talking about getting me a job in the Ministry later on ... once my Quidditch days are over, you know ... I mean, I can

There were titters from the crowd.

 said Mr. Crouch coldly.  He turned to the right-hand side of the dungeon.  

Harry looked toward the right-hand side of the dungeon.  Not one person raised their hand.  Many of the witches and wizards around the walls began to clap.  One of the witches on the jury stood up.

 barked Crouch.

d just like to congratulate Mr. Bagman on his splendid performance for England in the Quidditch match against Turkey last Saturday," the witch said breathlessly.
Mr. Crouch looked furious.  The dungeon was ringing with applause now.  Bagman got to his feet and bowed, beaming.
"Despicable," Mr. Crouch spat at Dumbledore, sitting down as Bagman walked out of the dungeon.  "Rookwood get him a job indeed. . . . The day Ludo Bagman joins us will be a sad day indeed for the Ministry. . . ."
And the dungeon dissolved again.  When it had returned, Harry looked around.  He and Dumbledore were still sitting beside Mr. Crouch, but the atmosphere could not have been more different.  There was total silence, broken only by the dry sobs of a frail, wispy-looking witch in the seat next to Mr. Crouch.  She was clutching a handkerchief to her mouth with trembling hands.
Harry looked up at Crouch and saw that he looked gaunter and grayer than ever before.  A nerve was twitching in his temple.
"Bring them in," he said, and his voice echoed through the silent dungeon.
The door in the corner opened yet again.  Six dementors entered this time, flanking a group of four people.  Harry saw the people in the crowd turn to look up at Mr. Crouch.  A few of them whispered to one another.
The dementors placed each of the four people in the four chairs with chained arms that now stood on the dungeon floor.  There was a thickset man who stared blankly up at Crouch; a thinner and more nervous-looking man, whose eyes were darting around the crowd; a woman with thick, shining dark hair and heavily hooded eyes, who was sitting in the chained chair as though it were a throne; and a boy in his late teens, who looked nothing short of petrified.  He was shivering, his straw-colored hair all over his face, his freckled skin milk-white.  The wispy little witch beside  Crouch began to rock backward and forward in her seat, whimpering into her handkerchief.
Crouch stood up.  He looked down upon the four in front of him, and there was pure hatred in his face.
"You have been brought here before the Council of Magical Law," he said clearly, "so that we may pass judgment on you, for a crime so heinous -"
"Father," said the boy with the straw-colored hair. "Father. . .please . . .
"- that we have rarely heard the like of it within this court," said Crouch, speaking more loudly, drowning out his son
We have heard the evidence against you.  The four of you stand accused of capturing an Auror - Frank Longbottom - and subjecting him to the Cruciatus Curse, believing him to have knowledge of the present whereabouts of your exiled master, He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named -
Father, I didn't!
I didn't, I swear it.  Father, don't send me back to the dementors -
You are further accused,
of using the Cruciatus Curse on Frank Longbottom's wife, when he would not give you information.  You planned to restore He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named to power, and to resume the lives of violence you presumably led while he was strong. I now ask the jury -
Mother!
Mother, stop him.  Mother, I didn't do it, it wasn't me!
I now ask the jury,
to raise their hands if they believe, as I do, that these crimes deserve a life sentence in Azkaban!
No!  Mother, no!  I didn't do it, I didn't do it, I didn't know!  Don't send me there, don't let him!
 three companions rose quietly from their seats; the woman with the heavy-lidded eyes looked up at Crouch and called, "The Dark Lord will rise again, Crouch!  Throw us into Azkaban; we will wait!  He
will rise again and will come for us, he will reward us beyond any of his other supporters!  We alone were faithful!  We alone tried to find him!"
But the boy was trying to fight off the dementors, even though Harry could see their cold, draining power starting to affect him.  The crowd was jeering, some of them on their feet, as the woman swept out of the dungeon, and the boy continued to struggle.
"I
 he screamed up at Crouch. 
m your son!"
"You are no son of mine!" bellowed Mr. Crouch, his eyes bulging suddenly.  "I have no son!"
The wispy witch beside him gave a great gasp and slumped in her seat.  She had fainted.  Crouch appeared not to have noticed.
"Take them away!" Crouch roared at the dementors, spit flying from his mouth.  "Take them away, and may they rot there!"
"Father!  Father, I wasn


 said a quiet voice in Harrys ear.
Harry started.  He looked around.  Then he looked on his other side.
There was an Albus Dumbledore sitting on his right, watching Crouch's son being dragged away by the dementors - and there was an Albus Dumbledore on his left, looking right at him.

 said the Dumbledore on his left, and he put his hand under Harrys elbow. Harry felt himself rising into the air; the dungeon dissolved around him; for a moment, all was blackness, and then he felt as though he had done a slow-motion somersault, suddenly landing flat on his feet, in what seemed like the dazzling light of Dumbledore's sunlit office.  The stone basin was shimmering in the cabinet in front of him, and Albus Dumbledore was standing beside him.

 Harry gasped, 
t
t mean - the cabinet door was sort of open and -"
"I quite understand," said Dumbledore.  He lifted the basin, carried it over to his desk, placed it upon the polished top, and sat down in the chair behind it.  He motioned for Harry to sit down opposite him.
Harry did so, staring at the stone basin.  The contents had returned to their original, silvery-white state, swirling and rippling beneath his gaze.
"What is it?" Harry asked shakily.
"This?  It is called a Pensieve," said Dumbledore.  "I sometimes find, and I am sure you know the feeling, that I simply have too many thoughts and memories crammed into my mind."
"Er," said Harry, who couldn
At these times,
I use the Pensieve.  One simply siphons the excess thoughts from one's mind, pours them into the basin, and examines them at one's leisure.  It becomes easier to spot patterns and links, you understand, when they are in this form.
You mean . . . that stuff's your thoughts?
Certainly,
Let me show you.
s, who opened his mouth and spoke to the ceiling, his voice echoing slightly.
"It
s too . . . stronger and clearer than ever..."
"A connection I could have made without assistance," Dumbledore sighed, "but never mind."  He peered over the top of his half-moon spectacles at Harry, who was gaping at Snape
I was using the Pensieve when Mr. Fudge arrived for our meeting and put it away rather hastily.  Undoubtedly I did not fasten the cabinet door properly.  Naturally, it would have attracted your attention.
I'm sorry,
Curiosity is not a sin,
But we should exercise caution with our curiosity. . . yes, indeed ...
s had done, as though it were coming from the depths of the stone basin.  "He put a hex on me, Professor Dumbledore, and I
was only teasing him, sir, I only said I


 said Dumbledore sadly, looking up at the now silently revolving girl, 


 Harry whispered, looking up at her.  


 said Dumbledore, prodding the thoughts in the basin again; Bertha sank back into them, and they became silvery and opaque once more.  

The silvery light from the Pensieve illuminated Dumbledore's face, and it struck Harry suddenly how very old he was looking.  He knew, of course, that Dumbledore was getting on in years, but somehow he never really thought of Dumbledore as an old man.

 said Dumbledore quietly. 


 said Harry. 

He hesitated here, wondering if a reprimand was coming, but Dumbledore merely said, 


 said Harry.  


 said Dumbledore promptly.  


s blunder had been repaired.  He said someone was dead.  Then he said, Wormtail wouldn
d be feeding me to it,
instead.  Then he did the Cruciatus Curse on Wormtail - and my scar hurt," Harry said.  "It woke me up, it hurt so badly."
Dumbledore merely looked at him.
"Er - that
 said Harry.

 said Dumbledore quietly. 


 said Harry, astonished.

s only correspondent," said Dumbledore.  "I have also been in contact with him ever since he left Hogwarts last year.  It was I who suggested the mountainside cave as the safest place for him to stay."
Dumbledore got up and began walking up and down behind his desk.  Every now and then, he placed his wand tip to his temple, removed another shining silver thought, and added it to the Pensieve.  The thoughts inside began to swirl so fast that Harry couldn
Professor?
My apologies,
D'you - d'you know why my scar's hurting me?
I have a theory, no more than that. ... It is my belief that your scar hurts both when Lord Voldemort is near you, and when he is feeling a particularly strong surge of hatred.
But. . . why?
Because you and he are connected by the curse that failed,
That is no ordinary scar.
So you think . . . that dream . . . did it really happen?
It is possible,
I would say - probable. Harry - did you see Voldemort?
No,
Just the back of his chair.  But - there wouldn't have been anything to see, would there?  I mean, he hasn't got a body, has he?  But. . . but then how could he have held the wand?
How indeed?
How indeed . . .
Professor,
do you think he's getting stronger?
Voldemort?
s magical eye could not.  "Once again. Harry, I can only give you my suspicions."
Dumbledore sighed again, and he looked older, and wearier, than ever.
"The years of Voldemort
 he said, 
s father grew up, and he has not been seen since last August.  You see, I read the Muggle newspapers, unlike most of my Ministry friends."
Dumbledore looked very seriously at Harry.
"These disappearances seem to me to be linked.  The Ministry disagrees - as you may have heard, while waiting outside my office."
Harry nodded.  Silence fell between them again, Dumbledore extracting thoughts every now and then.  Harry felt as though he ought to go, but his curiosity held him in his chair.
"Professor?"  he said again.
"Yes, Harry?"  said Dumbledore.
"Er . . . could I ask you about. . . that court thing I was in ... in the Pensieve?"
"You could," said Dumbledore heavily.  "I attended it many times, but some trials come back to me more clearly than others ... particularly now. ..."
"You know - you know the trial you found me in?  The one with Crouch
s parents?"
Dumbledore gave Harry a very sharp look. " Has Neville never told you why he has been brought up by his grandmother?" he said.
Harry shook his head, wondering, as he did so, how he could have failed to ask Neville this, in almost four years of knowing him.
"Yes, they were talking about Nevilles parents," said Dumbledore.  "His father, Frank, was an Auror just like Professor Moody.  He and his wife were tortured for information about Voldemort


re dead?" said Harry quietly.
"No," said Dumbledore, his voice full of a bitterness Harry had never heard there before.  "They are insane.  They are both in St. Mungo

Harry sat there, horror-struck. He had never known . . . never, in four years, bothered to find out. . .

 said Dumbledore.  
s fall from power, just when everyone thought they were safe.  Those attacks caused a wave of fury such as I have never known.  The Ministry was under great pressure to catch those who had done it.  Unfortunately, the Longbottoms


s son might not have been involved?" said Harry slowly.
Dumbledore shook his head.
"As to that, I have no idea."
Harry sat in silence once more, watching the contents of the Pensieve swirl.  There were two more questions he was burning to ask . . . but they concerned the guilt of living people. . . .
"Er," he said, "Mr. Bagman . .."
"... has never been accused of any Dark activity since," said Dumbledore calmly.
"Right," said Harry hastily, staring at the contents of the Pensieve again, which were swirling more slowly now that Dumbledore had stopped adding thoughts.  "And ... er ..."
But the Pensieve seemed to be asking his question for him.
Snape
No more has Professor Snape,
s light blue eyes, and the thing he really wanted to know spilled out of his mouth before he could stop it.
"What made you think he

Dumbledore held Harrys gaze for a few seconds, and then said, 

Harry knew that the interview was over; Dumbledore did not look angry, yet there was a finality in his tone that told Harry it was time to go.  He stood up, and so did Dumbledore.

 he said as Harry reached the door.  
s parents to anybody else.  He has the right to let people know, when he is ready."
"Yes, Professor," said Harry, turning to go.
"And-"
Harry looked back.  Dumbledore was standing over the Pensieve, his face lit from beneath by its silvery spots of light, looking older than ever.  He stared at Harry for a moment, and then said, "Good luck with the third task."

CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE - THE THIRD TASK

Dumbledore reckons You-Know-Who
  Ron whispered.
Everything Harry had seen in the Pensieve, nearly everything Dumbledore had told and shown him afterward, he had now shared with Ron and Hermione - and, of course, with Sirius, to whom Harry had sent an owl the moment he had left Dumbledore's office.  Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat up late in the common room once again that night, talking it all over until Harry's mind was reeling, until he understood what Dumbledore had meant about a head becoming so full of thoughts that it would have been a relief to siphon them off.
Ron stared into the common room fire.  Harry thought he saw Ron shiver slightly, even though the evening was warm.

  Ron said.  


 said Harry.
Hermione had not spoken for ten minutes.  She was sitting with her forehead in her hands, staring at her knees.  Harry thought she too looked as though she could have done with a Pensieve.

 she muttered finally.

  said Ron, in utter disbelief.

m not worrying about her," Hermione said to her knees.  "I
I know things about Ludo Bagman that would make your hair curl. 
t it?  She reported his trial, she knew he
Ludo Bagman
  Mr. Crouch would have been furious he got off, he would have talked about it at home."
"Yeah, but Bagman didn

Hermione shrugged.

  Ron said, turning back to Harry.

 said Harry, 
s only saying that because Crouch disappeared near the Beauxbatons carriage."
"We never thought of her, did we?"  said Ron slowly.  "Mind you, she
t want to admit it-"
"Of course she doesn
 said Hermione sharply, looking up.  
s part giant.  Who needs that sort of prejudice?  I
s what I

Hermione looked at her watch.  
t done any practicing!"  she said, looking shocked.  "We were going to do the Impediment Curse!  We

Harry and Ron went slowly upstairs to their dormitory.  As Harry pulled on his pajamas, he looked over at Nevilles bed.  True to his word to Dumbledore, he had not told Ron and Hermione about Neville s parents.  As Harry took off his glasses and climbed into his four-poster, he imagined how it must feel to have parents still living but unable to recognize you. He often got sympathy from strangers for being an orphan, but as he listened to Nevilles snores, he thought that Neville deserved it more than he did.  Lying in the darkness, Harry felt a rush of anger and hate toward the people who had tortured Mr. and Mrs. Longbottom. ... He remembered the jeers of the crowd as Crouch's son and his companions had been dragged from the court by the dementors. ... He understood how they had felt. . . . Then he remembered the milk-white face of the screaming boy and realized with a jolt that he had died a year later. . . .
It was Voldemort, Harry thought, staring up at the canopy of his bed in the darkness, it all came back to Voldemort. ... He was the one who had torn these families apart, who had ruined all these lives. . . .
Ron and Hermione were supposed to be studying for their exams, which would finish on the day of the third task, but they were putting most of their efforts into helping Harry prepare.

t worry about it," Hermione said shortly when Harry pointed this out to them and said he didn
at least we'll get top marks in Defense Against the Dark Arts.  We'd never have found out about all these hexes in class.
Good training for when we're all Aurors,
You're still doing really well, though,
Some of these are bound to come in handy.
Come and look at this,
What's Malfoy doing?
He looks like he's using a walkie-talkie,
He can't be,
I've told you, those sorts of things don't work around Hogwarts.  Come on, Harry,
let's try that Shield Charm again.
s responsibility, nor was it within his power to influence it.

If Voldemort is really getting stronger again, he wrote, my priority is to ensure your safety. He cannot hope to lay hands on you while you are under Dumbledore
s nerves mounted as June the twenty-fourth drew closer, but they were not as bad as those he had felt before the first and second tasks.  For one thing, he was confident that, this time, he had done everything in his power to prepare for the task.  For another, this was the final hurdle, and however well or badly he did, the tournament would at last be over, which would be an enormous relief.

Breakfast was a very noisy affair at the Gryffindor table on the morning of the third task. The post owls appeared, bringing Harry a good-luck card from Sirius.  It was only a piece of parchment, folded over and bearing a muddy paw print on its front, but Harry appreciated it all the same.  A screech owl arrived for Hermione, carrying her morning copy of the Daily Prophet as usual.  She unfolded the paper, glanced at the front page, and spat out a mouthful of pumpkin juice all over it.
"What?" said Harry and Ron together, staring at her.  "Nothing," said Hermione quickly, trying to shove the paper out of sight, but Ron grabbed it.  He stared at the headline and said, "No way.  Not today.  That old cow."
"What?"  said Harry.  "Rita Skeeter again?" 
"No," said Ron, and just like Hermione, he attempted to push the paper out of sight.
"It
t it?" said Harry. 
"No," said Ron, in an entirely unconvincing tone.  But before Harry could demand to see the paper.  Draco Malfoy shouted across the Great Hall from the Slytherin table.
"Hey, Potter!  Potter!  How
re not going to go berserk on us?"
Malfoy was holding a copy of the Daily Prophet too. Slytherins up and down the table were sniggering, twisting in their seats to see Harry
Let me see it,
Give it here.
HARRY POTTER 


The boy who defeated He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is unstable and possibly dangerous, writes Rita Skeeter, Special Correspondent.  Alarming evidence has recently come to light about Harry Potter's strange behavior, which casts doubts upon his suitability to compete in a demanding competition like the Triwizard Tournament, or even to attend Hogwarts School.
Potter, the Daily Prophet can exclusively reveal, regularly collapses at school, and is often heard to complain of pain in the scar on his forehead (relic of the curse with which You-Know-Who attempted to kill him).  On Monday last, midway through a Divination lesson, your Daily Prophet reporter witnessed Potter storming from the class, claiming that his scar was hurting too badly to continue studying.
It is possible, say top experts at St. Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries, that Potters brain was affected by the attack inflicted upon him by You-Know-Who, and that his insistence that the scar is still hurting is an expression of his deep-seated confusion.

 said one specialist. 

The Daily Prophet, however, has unearthed worrying facts about Harry Potter that Albus Dumbledore, Headmaster of Hogwarts, has carefully concealed from the wizarding public.

 reveals Draco Malfoy, a Hogwarts fourth year.  
s made friends with werewolves and giants too.  We think he

Parseltongue, the ability to converse with snakes, has long been considered a Dark Art.  Indeed, the most famous Parselmouth of our times is none other than You-Know-Who himself.  A member of the Dark Force Defense League, who wished to remain unnamed, stated that he would regard any wizard who could speak Parseltongue 
  Similarly, 

Albus Dumbledore should surely consider whether a boy such as this should be allowed to compete in the Triwizard Tournament.  Some fear that Potter might resort to the Dark Arts in his desperation to win the tournament, the third task of which takes place this evening.


t she?"  said Harry lightly, folding up the paper.
Over at the Slytherin table, Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle were laughing at him, tapping their heads with their fingers, pulling grotesquely mad faces, and waggling their tongues like snakes.
"How did she know your scar hurt in Divination?" Ron said. "There
s no way she could


 said Harry. 


  Hermione said.  
t have carried all the way down to the grounds!"
"Well, you
s supposed to be researching magical methods of bugging!" said Harry. "You tell me how she did it!"
"I
  said Hermione.  

An odd, dreamy expression suddenly came over Hermione's face.  She slowly raised a hand and ran her fingers through her hair.

 said Ron, frowning at her.

 said Hermione breathlessly.  She ran her fingers through her hair again, and then held her hand up to her mouth, as though speaking into an invisible walkie-talkie.  Harry and Ron stared at each other.

ve had an idea," Hermione said, gazing into space.  "I think I know. . . because then no one would be able to see ... even Moody. . . and she
s not allowed . . . she
ve got her!  Just give me two seconds in the library - just to make sure!"
With that, Hermione seized her school bag and dashed out of the Great Hall.
"Oi!" Ron called after her.  "We
 he said, turning back to Harry, 
re you going to do in Binns

Exempt from the end-of-term tests as a Triwizard champion, Harry had been sitting in the back of every exam class so far, looking up fresh hexes for the third task.

pose so," Harry said to Ron; but just then. Professor McGonagall came walking alongside the Gryffindor table toward him.
"Potter, the champions are congregating in the chamber off the Hall after breakfast," she said.
"But the task
  said Harry, accidentally spilling scrambled eggs down his front, afraid he had mistaken the time.

m aware of that, Potter," she said.  "The champions

She moved away. Harry gaped after her.

t expect the Dursleys to turn up, does she?"  he asked Ron blankly.
"Dunno," said Ron.  "Harry, I
m going to be late for Binns.  See you later."
Harry finished his breakfast in the emptying Great Hall.  He saw Fleur Delacour get up from the Ravenclaw table and join Cedric as he crossed to the side chamber and entered.  Krum slouched off to join them shortly afterward.  Harry stayed where he was.  He really didn
Harry, come on, they're waiting for you!
t possibly be here, could they? He walked across the Hall and opened the door into the chamber.
Cedric and his parents were just inside the door.  Viktor Krum was over in a corner, conversing with his dark-haired mother and father in rapid Bulgarian.  He had inherited his fathers hooked nose.  On the other side of the room, Fleur was jabbering away in French to her mother.  Fleur
s hand.  She waved at Harry, who waved back, grinning.  Then he saw Mrs. Weasley and Bill standing in front of the fireplace, beaming at him.
"Surprise!"  Mrs. Weasley said excitedly as he smiled broadly and walked over to them. "Thought we
  She bent down and kissed him on the cheek.

 said Bill, grinning at Harry and shaking his hand.  
t get time off.  He said you were incredible against the Horntail."
Fleur Delacour, Harry noticed, was eyeing Bill with great interest over her mother
This is really nice of you,
I thought for a moment - the Dursleys -
Hmm,
It's great being back here,
s friend, winked at him from her frame).  "Haven


 said Harry, who had met Sir Cadogan the previous year.

 said Bill.

 said Mrs. Weasley.  


  said Bill, surveying his mother with amazement.
Mrs. Weasley grinned, her eyes twinkling.

 she said.  
s still got the marks."
"Fancy giving us a tour, Harry?"  said Bill.
"Yeah, okay," said Harry, and they made their way back toward the door into the Great Hall.  As they passed Amos Diggory, he looked around.
"There you are, are you?" he said, looking Harry up and down.
"Bet you


 said Harry.

 said Cedric in a low voice to Harry, frowning after his father.  
s been angry ever since Rita Skeeters article about the Triwizard Tournament - you know, when she made out you were the only Hogwarts champion."
"Didn
  said Amos Diggory, loudly enough for Harry to hear as he started to walk out of the door with Mrs. Weasley and Bill.  
ll show him, Ced. Beaten him once before, haven


  Mrs. Weasley said angrily. 
d know that, working at the Ministry!"
Mr. Diggory looked as though he was going to say something angry, but his wife laid a hand on his arm, and he merely shrugged and turned away.
Harry had a very enjoyable morning walking over the sunny grounds with Bill and Mrs. Weasley, showing them the Beauxbatons carriage and the Durmstrang ship.  Mrs. Weasley was intrigued by the Whomping Willow, which had been planted after she had left school, and reminisced at length about the gamekeeper before Hagrid, a man called Ogg.
"How
  Harry asked as they walked around the greenhouses.

 said Bill.

s very upset," said Mrs. Weasley, lowering her voice and glancing around.  "The Ministry wants to keep Mr. Crouch
s been hauled in for questioning about the instructions Mr. Crouch has been sending in.  They seem to think there
t genuinely written by him.  Percy
re not letting him fill in for Mr. Crouch as the fifth judge tonight.  Cornelius Fudge is going to be doing it."
They returned to the castle for lunch.
"Mum - Bill!" said Ron, looking stunned, as he joined the Gryffindor table.  "What


  said Mrs. Weasley brightly.  


 said Ron. 
t remember all the goblin rebels
s all right," he said, helping himself to a Cornish pasty, while Mrs. Weasley looked stern, "they
t hard."
Fred, George, and Ginny came to sit next to them too, and Harry was having such a good time he felt almost as though he were back at the Burrow; he had forgotten to worry about that evening
Are you going to tell us - ?
Hello, Hermione,
Hello,
s face.
Harry looked between them, then said, "Mrs. Weasley, you didn
s not my girlfriend."
"Oh!" said Mrs. Weasley "No - of course I didn

But she became considerably warmer toward Hermione after that.
Harry, Bill, and Mrs. Weasley whiled away the afternoon with a long walk around the castle, and then returned to the Great Hall for the evening feast.  Ludo Bagman and Cornelius Fudge had joined the staff table now.  Bagman looked quite cheerful, but Cornelius Fudge, who was sitting next to Madame Maxime, looked stern and was not talking. Madame Maxime was concentrating on her plate, and Harry thought her eyes looked red. Hagrid kept glancing along the table at her,
There were more courses than usual, but Harry, who was starting to feel really nervous now, didn't eat much.  As the enchanted ceiling overhead began to fade from blue to a dusky purple, Dumbledore rose to his feet at the staff table, and silence fell.

 time, I will be asking you to make your way down to the Quidditch field for the third and final task of the Triwizard Tournament.  Will the champions please follow Mr. Bagman down to the stadium now."
Harry got up.  The Gryffindors all along the table were applauding him; the Weasleys and Hermione all wished him good luck, and he headed off out of the Great Hall with Cedric, Fleur, and Viktor.
"Feeling all right. Harry?" Bagman asked as they went down the stone steps onto the grounds.  "Confident?"
"I
 said Harry.  It was sort of true; he was nervous, but he kept running over all the hexes and spells he had been practicing in his mind as they walked, and the knowledge that he could remember them all made him feel better.
They walked onto the Quidditch field, which was now completely unrecognizable.  A twenty-foot-high hedge ran all the way around the edge of it.  There was a gap right in front of them:  the entrance to the vast maze.  The passage beyond it looked dark and creepy.
Five minutes later, the stands had begun to fill; the air was full of excited voices and the rumbling of feet as the hundreds of students filed into their seats.  The sky was a deep, clear blue now, and the first stars were starting to appear. Hagrid, Professor Moody, Professor McGonagall, and Professor Flitwick came walking into the stadium and approached Bagman and the champions.  They were wearing large, red, luminous stars on their hats, all except Hagrid, who had his on the back of his moleskin vest.

 said Professor McGonagall to the champions.  

The champions nodded.

  said Bagman brightly to the four patrollers.

 Hagrid whispered, and the four of them walked away in different directions, to station themselves around the maze.  Bagman now pointed his wand at his throat, muttered, 
 and his magically magnified voice echoed into the stands.

  The cheers and applause sent birds from the Forbidden Forest fluttering into the darkening sky.  
  More applause. 

Harry could just make out Mrs. Weasley, Bill, Ron, and Hermione applauding Fleur politely, halfway up the stands.  He waved up at them, and they waved back, beaming at him.

 said Bagman. 

He gave a short blast on his whistle, and Harry and Cedric hurried forward into the maze.
The towering hedges cast black shadows across the path, and, whether because they were so tall and thick or because they had been enchanted, the sound of the surrounding crowd was silenced the moment they entered the maze.  Harry felt almost as though he were underwater again.  He pulled out his wand, muttered, 
 and heard Cedric do the same just behind him.
After about fifty yards, they reached a fork.  They looked at each other.

 Harry said, and he took the left one, while Cedric took the right.
Harry heard Bagman's whistle for the second time.  Krum had entered the maze.  Harry sped up.  His chosen path seemed completely deserted.  He turned right, and hurried on, holding his wand high over his head, trying to see as far ahead as possible.  Still, there was nothing in sight.
Bagman's whistle blew in the distance for the third time.  All of the champions were now inside.
Harry kept looking behind him.  The old feeling that he was being watched was upon him.  The maze was growing darker with every passing minute as the sky overhead deepened to navy.  He reached a second fork.

 he whispered to his wand, holding it flat in his palm.
The wand spun around once and pointed toward his right, into solid hedge.  That way was north, and he knew that he needed to go northwest for the center of the maze.  The best he could do was to take the left fork and go right again as soon as possible.
The path ahead was empty too, and when Harry reached a right turn and took it, he again found his way unblocked.  Harry didn't know why, but the lack of obstacles was unnerving him.  Surely he should have met something by now?  It felt as though the maze were luring him into a false sense of security.  Then he heard movement right behind him.  He held out his wand, ready to attack, but its beam fell only upon Cedric, who had just hurried out of a path on the right-hand side.  Cedric looked severely shaken.  The sleeve of his robe was smoking.

s Blast-Ended Skrewts!" he hissed.  "They

He shook his head and dived out of sight, along another path.  Keen to put plenty of distance between himself and the skrewts, Harry hurried off again.  Then, as he turned a corner, he saw ... a dementor gliding toward him.  Twelve feet tall, its face hidden by its hood, its rotting, scabbed hands outstretched, it advanced, sensing its way blindly toward him.  Harry could hear its rattling breath; he felt clammy coldness stealing over him, but knew what he had to do....
He summoned the happiest thought he could, concentrated with all his might on the thought of getting out of the maze and celebrating with Ron and Hermione, raised his wand, and cried, 

A silver stag erupted from the end of Harry's wand and galloped toward the dementor, which fell back and tripped over the hem of its robes. . . . Harry had never seen a dementor stumble.

  he shouted, advancing in the wake of his silver Patronus, 
re a boggart! Riddikulus!"
There was a loud crack, and the shape-shifter exploded in a wisp of smoke.  The silver stag faded from sight.  Harry wished it could have stayed, he could have used some company...but he moved on, quickly and quietly as possible, listening hard, his wand held high once more.
Left ... right... left again . . . Twice he found himself facing dead ends.  He did the Four-Point Spell again and found that he was going too far east.  He turned back, took a right turn, and saw an odd golden mist floating ahead of him.
Harry approached it cautiously, pointing the wand
Reducio!
Fleur?
t be able to see the view of endless space below him, and pulled his right foot as hard as he could away from the grassy ceiling.
Immediately, the world righted itself. Harry fell forward onto his knees onto the wonderfully solid ground. He felt temporarily limp with shock. He took a deep, steadying breath, then got up again and hurried forward, looking back over his shoulder as he ran away from the golden mist, which twinkled innocently at him in the moonlight.
He paused at a junction of two paths and looked around for some sign of Fleur.  He was sure it had been she who had screamed.  What had she met?  Was she all right?  There was no sign of red sparks - did that mean she had got herself out of trouble, or was she in such trouble that she couldn
t help thinking.  One champion down. . .
The cup was somewhere close by, and it sounded as though Fleur was no longer in the running.  He
t he?  What if he actually managed to win?  Fleetingly, and for the first time since he
s wand, which he pointed at it.
"Stupefy!"
The spell hit the skrewt
Impedimenta!
s armor again and ricocheted off; Harry staggered back a few paces and fell over. "IMPEDIMENTA!"
The skrewt was inches from him when it froze - he had managed to hit it on its fleshy, shell-less underside.  Panting, Harry pushed himself away from it and ran, hard, in the opposite direction - the Impediment Curse was not permanent; the skrewt would be regaining the use of its legs at any moment.
He took a left path and hit a dead end, a right, and hit another; forcing himself to stop, heart hammering, he performed the Four-Point Spell again, backtracked, and chose a path that would take him northwest.
He had been hurrying along the new path for a few minutes, when he heard something in the path running parallel to his own that made him stop dead.
"What are you doing?" yelled Cedric
What the hell d'you think you're doing?
s voice.
"Crucio!"
The air was suddenly full of Cedric
s.  When none appeared, he tried the Reductor Curse again.  It wasn
Stupefy!
Are you all right?
s arm.
"Yeah," panted Cedric. "Yeah ... I don

Cedric got up. He was still shaking.  He and Harry looked down at Krum.

t believe this ... I thought he was all right," Harry said, staring at Krum.
"So did I," said Cedric.
"Did you hear Fleur scream earlier?"  said Harry.
"Yeah," said Cedric. "You don


t know," said Harry slowly.
"Should we leave him here?" Cedric muttered.
"No," said Harry.  "I reckon we should send up red sparks.  Someone
ll probably be eaten by a skrewt."
"He
 Cedric muttered, but all the same, he raised his wand and shot a shower of red sparks into the air, which hovered high above Krum, marking the spot where he lay.
Harry and Cedric stood there in the darkness for a moment, looking around them.  Then Cedric said, 
pose we


 said Harry. 

It was an odd moment. He and Cedric had been briefly united against Krum - now the fact that they were opponents came back to Harry.  The two of them proceeded up the dark path without speaking, then Harry turned left, and Cedric right.  Cedric's footsteps soon died away.
Harry moved on, continuing to use the Four-Point Spell, making sure he was moving in the right direction.  It was between him and Cedric now.  His desire to reach the cup first was now burning stronger than ever, but he could hardly believe what he'd just seen Krum do.  The use of an Unforgivable Curse on a fellow human being meant a life term in Azkaban, that was what Moody had told them. Krum surely couldn't have wanted the Triwizard Cup that badly....Harry sped up.
Every so often he hit more dead ends, but the increasing darkness made him feel sure he was getting near the heart of the maze.  Then, as he strode down a long, straight path, he saw movement once again, and his beam of wandlight hit an extraordinary creature, one which he had only seen in picture form, in his Monster Book of Monsters.
It was a sphinx.  It had the body of an over-large lion: great clawed paws and a long yellowish tail ending in a brown tuft.  Its head, however, was that of a woman.  She turned her long, almond-shaped eyes upon Harry as he approached.  He raised his wand, hesitating.  She was not crouching as if to spring, but pacing from side to side of the path, blocking his progress. Then she spoke, in a deep, hoarse voice.



  said Harry, knowing what the answer was going to be.

 she said, continuing to pace.  

Harry's stomach slipped several notches.  It was Hermione who was good at this sort of thing, not him.  He weighed his chances.  If the riddle was too hard, he could keep silent, get away from the sphinx unharmed, and try and find an alternative route to the center.

 he said. 

The sphinx sat down upon her hind legs, in the very middle of the path, and recited:


s always the last thing to mend,
The middle of middle and end of the end?
And finally give me the sound often heard
During the search for a hard-to-find word.
Now string them together, and answer me this,
Which creature would you be unwilling to kiss?"

Harry gaped at her.
"Could I have it again . . . more slowly?" he asked tentatively.  She blinked at him, smiled, and repeated the poem.  "All the clues add up to a creature I wouldn
 Harry asked.
She merely smiled her mysterious smile.  Harry took that for a 
  Harry cast his mind around. There were plenty of animals he wouldn't want to kiss; his immediate thought was a Blast-Ended Skrewt, but something told him that wasn't the answer.  He'd have to try and work out the clues. . . .

 Harry muttered, staring at her, 
d be a - an impostor.  No, that
ll come back to that. . . could you give me the next clue again, please?"
She repeated the next lines of the poem.
"
" Harry repeated. "Er ... no idea . . . 
 . . . could I have the last bit again?"
She gave him the last four lines.
"
" said Harry.  "Er . . . that
er
s a sound!"
The sphinx smiled at him.
"Spy ... er ... spy ... er ..." said Harry, pacing up and down. "A creature I wouldn

The sphinx smiled more broadly.  She got up, stretched her front legs, and then moved aside for him to pass.

 said Harry, and, amazed at his own brilliance, he dashed forward.
He had to be close now, he had to be. ... His wand was telling him he was bang on course; as long as he didn't meet anything too horrible, he might have a chance. . . .
Harry broke into a run.  He had a choice of paths up ahead. 
 he whispered again to his wand, and it spun around and pointed him to the right-hand one.  He dashed up this one and saw light ahead.
The Triwizard Cup was gleaming on a plinth a hundred yards away.  Suddenly a dark figure hurtled out onto the path in front of him.
Cedric was going to get there first.  Cedric was sprinting as fast as he could toward the cup, and Harry knew he would never catch up, Cedric was much taller, had much longer legs -
Then Harry saw something immense over a hedge to his left, moving quickly along a path that intersected with his own; it was moving so fast Cedric was about to run into it, and Cedric, his eyes on the cup, had not seen it -

 Harry bellowed. 

Cedric looked around just in time to hurl himself past the thing and avoid colliding with it, but in his haste, he tripped.  Harry saw Cedric's wand fly out of his hand as a gigantic spider stepped into the path and began to bear down upon Cedric.

 Harry yelled; the spell hit the spider's gigantic, hairy black body, but for all the good it did, he might as well have thrown a stone at it; the spider jerked, scuttled around, and ran at Harry instead.


But it was no use - the spider was either so large, or so magical, that the spells were doing no more than aggravating it.  Harry had one horrifying glimpse of eight shining black eyes and razor-sharp pincers before it was upon him.
He was lifted into the air in its front legs; struggling madly, he tried to kick it; his leg connected with the pincers and next moment he was in excruciating pain. He could hear Cedric yelling 
 too, but his spell had no more effect than Harry's - Harry raised his wand as the spider opened its pincers once more and shouted 

It worked - the Disarming Spell made the spider drop him, but that meant that Harry fell twelve feet onto his already injured leg, which crumpled beneath him.  Without pausing to think, he aimed high at the spider's underbelly, as he had done with the skrewt, and shouted 
just as Cedric yelled the same thing.
The two spells combined did what one alone had not:  The spider keeled over sideways, flattening a nearby hedge, and strewing the path with a tangle of hairy legs.
"Harry!" he heard Cedric shouting. "You all right? Did it fall on you?"
"No," Harry called back, panting.  He looked down at his leg.  It was bleeding freely. He could see some sort of thick, gluey secretion from the spider
Take it, then,
Go on, take it. You're there.
t move.  He merely stood there, looking at Harry.  Then he turned to stare at the cup.  Harry saw the longing expression on his face in its golden light.  Cedric looked around at Harry again, who was now holding onto the hedge to support himself.  Cedric took a deep breath.
"You take it. You should win. That
ve saved my neck in here."
"That
s supposed to work," Harry said.  He felt angry; his leg was very painful, he was aching all over from trying to throw off the spider, and after all his efforts, Cedric had beaten him to it, just as he
The one who reaches the cup first gets the points.  That's you. I'm telling you, I'm not going to win any races on this leg.
No,
Stop being noble,
Just take it, then we can get out of here.
You told me about the dragons,
I would've gone down in the first task if you hadn't told me what was coming.
I had help on that too,
You helped me with the egg - we're square.
I had help on the egg in the first place,
We're still square,
You should've got more points on the second task,
You stayed behind to get all the hostages.  I should've done that.
I was the only one who was thick enough to take that song seriously!
Just take the cup!
No,
s tangled legs to join Harry, who stared at him.  Cedric was serious.  He was walking away from the sort of glory Hufflepuff House hadn
Go on,
s face shining with admiration, more clearly than he had ever seen it before . . . and then the picture faded, and he found himself staring at Cedric
Both of us,
What?
We'll take it at the same time.  It's still a Hogwarts victory.  We'll tie for it.
You - you sure?
Yeah,
Yeah . . . we've helped each other out, haven't we?  We both got here.  Let's just take it together.
t believe his ears; then his face split in a grin.
"You
 he said. 

He grabbed Harrys arm below the shoulder and helped Harry limp toward the plinth where the cup stood.  When they had reached it, they both held a hand out over one of the cup's gleaming handles.

 said Harry. 

He and Cedric both grasped a handle.
Instantly, Harry felt a jerk somewhere behind his navel.  His feet had left the ground.  He could not unclench the hand holding the Triwizard Cup; it was pulling him onward in a howl of wind and swirling color, Cedric at his side.

CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO - FLESH, BLOOD, AND BONE

Harry felt his feet slam into the ground; his injured leg gave way, and he fell forward; his hand let go of the Triwizard Cup at last.  He raised his head.

 he said.
Cedric shook his head.  He got up, pulled Harry to his feet, and they looked around.
They had left the Hogwarts grounds completely; they had obviously traveled miles - perhaps hundreds of miles - for even the mountains surrounding the castle were gone.  They were standing instead in a dark and overgrown graveyard; the black outline of a small church was visible beyond a large yew tree to their right.  A hill rose above them to their left. Harry could just make out the outline of a fine old house on the hillside.
Cedric looked down at the Triwizard Cup and then up at Harry.

 he asked.

 said Harry. He was looking around the graveyard.  It was completely silent and slightly eerie.  


 said Cedric.  He sounded slightly nervous.  
you reckon?"
"Yeah," said Harry, glad that Cedric had made the suggestion rather than him.
They pulled out their wands.  Harry kept looking around him.  He had, yet again, the strange feeling that they were being watched.
"Someone
 he said suddenly.
Squinting tensely through the darkness, they watched the figure drawing nearer, walking steadily toward them between the graves.  Harry couldn't make out a face, but from the way it was walking and holding its arms, he could tell that it was carrying something.  Whoever it was, he was short, and wearing a hooded cloak pulled up over his head to obscure his face.  And - several paces nearer, the gap between them closing all the time - Harry saw that the thing in the persons arms looked like a baby ... or was it merely a bundle of robes?
Harry lowered his wand slightly and glanced sideways at Cedric.  Cedric shot him a quizzical look.  They both turned back to watch the approaching figure.
It stopped beside a towering marble headstone, only six feet from them.  For a second. Harry and Cedric and the short figure simply looked at one another.
And then, without warning, Harry's scar exploded with pain.  It was agony such as he had never felt in all his life; his wand slipped from his fingers as he put his hands over his face; his knees buckled; he was on the ground and he could see nothing at all; his head was about to split open.
From far away, above his head, he heard a high, cold voice say, 

A swishing noise and a second voice, which screeched the words to the night: 

A blast of green light blazed through Harry's eyelids, and he heard something heavy fall to the ground beside him; the pain in his scar reached such a pitch that he retched, and then it diminished; terrified of what he was about to see, he opened his stinging eyes.
Cedric was lying spread-eagled on the ground beside him.  He was dead.
For a second that contained an eternity, Harry stared into Cedric's face, at his open gray eyes, blank and expressionless as the windows of a deserted house, at his half-open mouth, which looked slightly surprised.  And then, before Harry's mind had accepted what he was seeing, before he could feel anything but numb disbelief, he felt himself being pulled to his feet.
The short man in the cloak had put down his bundle, lit his wand, and was dragging Harry toward the marble headstone.  Harry saw the name upon it flickering in the wandlight before he was forced around and slammed against it.

TOM RIDDLE

The cloaked man was now conjuring tight cords around Harry, tying him from neck to ankles to the headstone.  Harry could hear shallow, fast breathing from the depths of the hood; he struggled, and the man hit him - hit him with a hand that had a finger missing.  And Harry realized who was under the hood.  It was Wormtail.

  he gasped.
But Wormtail, who had finished conjuring the ropes, did not reply; he was busy checking the tightness of the cords, his fingers trembling uncontrollably, rumbling over the knots. Once sure that Harry was bound so tightly to the headstone that he couldn't move an inch, Wormtail drew a length of some black material from the inside of his cloak and stuffed it roughly into Harry's mouth; then, without a word, he turned from Harry and hurried away. Harry couldn't make a sound, nor could he see where Wormtail had gone; he couldn't turn his head to see beyond the headstone; he could see only what was right in front of him.
Cedric's body was lying some twenty feet away.  Some way beyond him, glinting in the starlight, lay the Triwizard Cup.  Harry's wand was on the ground at Cedric's feet.  The bundle of robes that Harry had thought was a baby was close by, at the foot of the grave.  It seemed to be stirring fretfully.  Harry watched it, and his scar seared with pain again . . . and he suddenly knew that he didn't want to see what was in those robes ... he didn't want that bundle opened....
He could hear noises at his feet.  He looked down and saw a gigantic snake slithering through the grass, circling the headstone where he was tied.  Wormtail's fast, wheezy breathing was growing louder again.  It sounded as though he was forcing something heavy across the ground. Then he came back within Harry's range of vision, and Harry saw him pushing a stone cauldron to the foot of the grave.  It was full of what seemed to be water - Harry could hear it slopping around - and it was larger than any cauldron Harry had ever used; a great stone belly large enough for a full-grown man to sit in.
The thing inside the bundle of robes on the ground was stirring more persistently, as though it was trying to free itself.  Now Wormtail was busying himself at the bottom of the cauldron with a wand.  Suddenly there were crackling names beneath it.  The large snake slithered away into the darkness.
The liquid in the cauldron seemed to heat very fast.  The surface began not only to bubble, but to send out fiery sparks, as though it were on fire.  Steam was thickening, blurring the outline of Wormtail tending the fire.  The movements beneath the robes became more agitated.  And Harry heard the high, cold voice again.


The whole surface of the water was alight with sparks now.  It might have been encrusted with diamonds.



 said the cold voice.
Wormtail pulled open the robes on the ground, revealing what was inside them, and Harry let out a yell that was strangled in the wad of material blocking his mouth.
It was as though Wormtail had flipped over a stone and revealed something ugly, slimy, and blind - but worse, a hundred times worse.  The thing Wormtail had been carrying had the shape of a crouched human child, except that Harry had never seen anything less like a child.  It was hairless and scaly-looking, a dark, raw, reddish black.  Its arms and legs were thin and feeble, and its face - no child alive ever had a face like that - flat and snakelike, with gleaming red eyes.
The thing seemed almost helpless; it raised its thin arms, put them around Wormtail's neck, and Wormtail lifted it.  As he did so, his hood fell back, and Harry saw the look of revulsion on Wormtail's weak, pale face in the firelight as he carried the creature to the rim of the cauldron.  For one moment, Harry saw the evil, flat face illuminated in the sparks dancing on the surface of the potion.  And then Wormtail lowered the creature into the cauldron; there was a hiss, and it vanished below the surface; Harry heard its frail body hit the bottom with a soft thud.
Let it drown, Harry thought, his scar burning almost past endurance, please. . . let it drown. . . .
Wormtail was speaking.  His voice shook; he seemed frightened beyond his wits.  He raised his wand, closed his eyes, and spoke to the night.


The surface of the grave at Harry's feet cracked.  Horrified, Harry watched as a fine trickle of dust rose into the air at Wormtail's command and fell softly into the cauldron.  The diamond surface of the water broke and hissed; it sent sparks in all directions and turned a vivid, poisonous-looking blue.
And now Wormtail was whimpering. He pulled a long, thin, shining silver dagger from inside his cloak.  His voice broke into petrified sobs.


He stretched his right hand out in front of him - the hand with the missing finger.  He gripped the dagger very tightly in his left hand and swung it upward.
Harry realized what Wormtail was about to do a second before it happened - he closed his eyes as tightly as he could, but he could not block the scream that pierced the night, that went through Harry as though he had been stabbed with the dagger too.  He heard something fall to the ground, heard Wormtail's anguished panting, then a sickening splash, as something was dropped into the cauldron.  Harry couldn't stand to look . . . but the potion had turned a burning red; the light of it shone through Harry's closed eyelids. . . .
Wormtail was gasping and moaning with agony.  Not until Harry felt Wormtail's anguished breath on his face did he realize that Wormtail was right in front of him.


Harry could do nothing to prevent it, he was tied too tightly. . .. Squinting down, struggling hopelessly at the ropes binding him, he saw the shining silver dagger shaking in Wormtails remaining hand.  He felt its point penetrate the crook of his right arm and blood seeping down the sleeve of his torn robes.  Wormtail, still panting with pain, rumbled in his pocket for a glass vial and held it to Harry's cut, so that a dribble of blood fell into it.
He staggered back to the cauldron with Harrys blood.  He poured it inside.  The liquid within turned, instantly, a blinding white.  Wormtail, his job done, dropped to his knees beside the cauldron, then slumped sideways and lay on the ground, cradling the bleeding stump of his arm, gasping and sobbing.
The cauldron was simmering, sending its diamond sparks in all directions, so blindingly bright that it turned all else to velvety blackness.  Nothing happened. . . .
Let it have drowned.  Harry thought, let it have gone wrong. . .  
And then, suddenly, the sparks emanating from the cauldron were extinguished.  A surge of white steam billowed thickly from the cauldron instead, obliterating everything in front of Harry, so that he couldn't see Wormtail or Cedric or anything but vapor hanging in the air. ... It's gone wrong, he thought. . . it's drowned. .. please . . . please let it be dead. ...
But then, through the mist in front of him, he saw, with an icy surge of terror, the dark outline of a man, tall and skeletally thin, rising slowly from inside the cauldron.

 said the high, cold voice from behind the steam, and Wormtail, sobbing and moaning, still cradling his mutilated arm, scrambled to pick up the black robes from the ground, got to his feet, reached up, and pulled them one-handed over his master's head.
The thin man stepped out of the cauldron, staring at Harry . . . and Harry stared back into the face that had haunted his nightmares for three years.  Whiter than a skull, with wide, livid scarlet eyes and a nose that was flat as a snakes with slits for nostrils . . .
Lord Voldemort had risen again.

CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE - THE DEATH EATERS

Voldemort looked away from Harry and began examining his own body.  His hands were like large, pale spiders; his long white fingers caressed his own chest, his arms, his face; the red eyes, whose pupils were slits, like a cats, gleamed still more brightly through the darkness.  He held up his hands and flexed the fingers, his expression rapt and exultant.  He took not the slightest notice of Wormtail, who lay twitching and bleeding on the ground, nor of the great snake, which had slithered back into sight and was circling Harry again, hissing. Voldemort slipped one of those unnaturally long-fingered hands into a deep pocket and drew out a wand.  He caressed it gently too; and then he raised it, and pointed it at Wormtail, who was lifted off the ground and thrown against the headstone where Harry was tied; he fell to the foot of it and lay there, crumpled up and crying.  Voldemort turned his scarlet eyes upon Harry, laughing a high, cold, mirthless laugh.
Wormtail's robes were shining with blood now; he had wrapped the stump of his arm in them.

 he choked, 


 said Voldemort lazily.


He extended the bleeding stump, but Voldemort laughed again.




Voldemort bent down and pulled out Wormtail's left arm; he forced the sleeve of Wormtail's robes up past his elbow, and Harry saw something upon the skin there, something like a vivid red tattoo - a skull with a snake protruding from its mouth - the image that had appeared in the sky at the Quidditch World Cup: the Dark Mark. Voldemort examined it carefully, ignoring Wormtail's uncontrollable weeping.

 he said softly, 

He pressed his long white forefinger to the brand on Wormtail's arm.
The scar on Harry s forehead seared with a sharp pain again, and Wormtail let out a fresh howl; Voldemort removed his fingers from Wormtail's mark, and Harry saw that it had turned jet black.
A look of cruel satisfaction on his face, Voldemort straightened up, threw back his head, and stared around at the dark graveyard.

  he whispered, his gleaming red eyes fixed upon the stars.  

He began to pace up and down before Harry and Wormtail, eyes sweeping the graveyard all the while.  After a minute or so, he looked down at Harry again, a cruel smile twisting his snakelike face.

 he hissed softly.  

Voldemort laughed again.  Up and down he paced, looking all around him as he walked, and the snake continued to circle in the grass.

t like magic, my father . . .
"He left her and returned to his Muggle parents before I was even born.  Potter, and she died giving birth to me, leaving me to be raised in a Muggle orphanage . . . but I vowed to find him ... I revenged myself upon him, that fool who gave me his name . . . Tom Riddle. . . ."
Still he paced, his red eyes darting from grave to grave.
"Listen to me, reliving family history . . ." he said quietly, "why, I am growing quite sentimental. . . . But look, Harry!  My true family returns. . . ."
The air was suddenly full of the swishing of cloaks.  Between graves, behind the yew tree, in every shadowy space, wizards were Apparating.  All of them were hooded and masked.  And one by one they moved forward . . . slowly, cautiously, as though they could
hardly believe their eyes Voldemort stood in silence, waiting for them.  Then one of the Death Eaters fell to his knees, crawled toward Voldemort and kissed the hem of his black robes.
Master . . . Master   " he murmured.
The Death Eaters behind him did the same; each of them approaching Voldemort on his knees and kissing his robes, before backing away and standing up, forming a silent circle, which enclosed Tom Riddle s grave, Harry, Voldemort, and the sobbing and twitching heap that was Wormtail.  Yet they left gaps in the circle, as though waiting for more people.  Voldemort, however, did not seem to expect more.  He looked around at the hooded faces, and though there was no wind rustling seemed to run around the circle, as though it had shivered.
"Welcome, Death Eaters," said Voldemort quietly. "Thirteen years. . . thirteen years since last we met.  Yet you answer my call as though it were yesterday, we are still united under the Dark Mark, then!  Or are we?"
He put back his terrible face and sniffed, his slit-like nostrils widening.
"I smell guilt," he said.  "There is a stench or guilt upon the air.
A second shiver ran around the circle, as though each member of it longed, but did not dare to step back from him.
"I see you all, whole and healthy, with your powers intact - such prompt appearances! and I ask myself . . . why did this band of wizards never come to the aid of their master, to whom they swore eternal loyalty?"
No one spoke.  No one moved except Wormtail, who was upon the ground, still sobbing over his bleeding arm.  
"And I answer myself," whispered Voldemort, "they must have believed me broken, they thought I was gone.  They slipped back among my enemies, and they pleaded innocence, and ignorance, and bewitchment. . . .
"And then I ask myself, but how could they have believed I would not rise again?  They, who knew the steps I took, long ago, to guard myself against mortal death?  They, who had seen proofs of the immensity of my power in the times when I was mightier than any wizard living?
"And I answer myself, perhaps they believed a still greater power could exist, one that could vanquish even Lord Voldemort. . . perhaps they now pay allegiance to another . . . perhaps that champion of commoners, of Mudbloods and Muggles, Albus Dumbledore?"
At the mention of Dumbledore
It is a disappointment to me ... I confess myself disappointed. . . .
s feet.
"Master!" he shrieked, "Master, forgive me!  Forgive us all!"
Voldemort began to laugh.  He raised his wand.
"Crucio!"
The Death Eater on the ground writhed and shrieked; Harry was sure the sound must carry to the houses around. . . . Let the police come, he thought desperately . . . anyone . .. anything. . .
Voldemort raised his wand.  The tortured Death Eater lay flat upon the ground, gasping.
"Get up, Avery," said Voldemort softly. "Stand up. You ask for forgiveness?  I do not forgive.  I do not forget.  Thirteen long years ... I want thirteen years

He looked down at Wormtail, who continued to sob.

t you?"
"Yes, Master," moaned Wormtail, "please. Master . . . please ..."
"Yet you helped return me to my body," said Voldemort coolly, watching Wormtail sob on the ground.  "Worthless and traitorous as you are, you helped me ... and Lord Voldemort rewards his helpers... ."
Voldemort raised his wand again and whirled it through the air.  A streak of what looked like molten silver hung shining in the wand
s sobbing stopped abruptly.  His breathing harsh and ragged, he raised his head and stared in disbelief at the silver hand, now attached seamlessly to his arm, as though he were wearing a dazzling glove.  He flexed the shining fingers, then, trembling, picked up a small twig on the ground and crushed it into powder.
"My Lord," he whispered. "Master ... it is beautiful. . . thank you... thank you. ..."
He scrambled forward on his knees and kissed the hem of Voldemort
May your loyalty never waver again, Wormtail,
No, my Lord . . . never, my Lord . . .
s right.
"Lucius, my slippery friend," he whispered, halting before him.  "I am told that you have not renounced the old ways, though to the world you present a respectable face.  You are still ready to take the lead in a spot of Muggle-torture, I believe?  Yet you never tried to find me, Lucius. . . . Your exploits at the Quidditch World Cup were fun, I daresay. . . but might not your energies have been better directed toward finding and aiding your master?"
"My Lord, I was constantly on the alert," came Lucius Malfoy
Had there been any sign from you, any whisper of your whereabouts, I would have been at your side immediately, nothing could have prevented me -
And yet you ran from my Mark, when a faithful Death Eater sent it into the sky last summer?
Yes, I know all about that, Lucius. . . . You have disappointed me. ... I expect more faithful service in the future.
Of course, my Lord, of course. . . . You are merciful, thank you. ...
The Lestranges should stand here,
But they are entombed in Azkaban.  They were faithful.  They went to Azkaban rather than renounce me. . . . When Azkaban is broken open, the Lestranges will be honored beyond their dreams.  The dementors will join us ... they are our natural allies ... we will recall the banished giants ... I shall have all my devoted servants returned to me, and an army of creatures whom all fear. ...
Macnair . . . destroying dangerous beasts for the Ministry of Magic now, Wormtail tells me?  You shall have better victims than that soon, Macnair.  Lord Voldemort will provide. ...
Thank you, Master . . . thank you,
And here
we have Crabbe . . . you will do better this time, will you not, Crabbe?  And you, Goyle?
Yes, Master ...
We will, Master....
The same goes for you, Nott,
My Lord, I prostrate myself before you, I am your most faithful -
That will do,
And here we have six missing Death Eaters . . . three dead in my service. One, too cowardly to return ... he will pay.  One, who I believe has left me forever ... he will be killed, of course . . . and one, who remains my most faithful servant, and who has already reentered my service.
He is at Hogwarts, that faithful servant, and it was through his efforts that our young friend arrived here tonight. . . .

 said Voldemort, a grin curling his lipless mouth as the eyes of the circle flashed in Harry's direction.  

There was a silence.  Then the Death Eater to the right of Wormtail stepped forward, and Lucius Malfoy's voice spoke from under the mask.



 said Voldemort.  

He walked lazily over to stand next to Harry, so that the eyes of the whole circle were upon the two of them.  The snake continued to circle.

  Voldemort said softly, his red eyes upon Harry, whose scar began to burn so fiercely that he almost screamed in agony.  

Voldemort raised one of his long white fingers and put it very close to Harry's cheek.


Harry felt the cold tip of the long white finger touch him, and thought his head would burst with the pain. Voldemort laughed softly in his ear, then took the finger away and continued addressing the Death Eaters.

s foolish sacrifice, and it rebounded upon myself.  Aaah . . . pain beyond pain, my friends; nothing could have prepared me for it.  I was ripped from my body, I was less than spirit, less than the meanest ghost. . . but still, I was alive.  What I was, even I do not know... I, who have gone further than anybody along the path that leads to immortality.  You know my goal - to conquer death.  And now, I was tested, and it appeared that one or more of my experiments had worked ... for I had not been killed, though the curse should have done it.  Nevertheless, I was as powerless as the weakest creature alive, and without the means to help myself... for I had no body, and every spell that might have helped me required the use of a wand. . . .
"I remember only forcing myself, sleeplessly, endlessly, second by second, to exist. ... I settled in a faraway place, in a forest, and I waited. . . . Surely, one of my faithful Death Eaters would try and find me. . . one of them would come and perform the magic I could not, to restore me to a body . . , but I waited in vain. ..."
The shiver ran once more around the circle of listening Death Eaters.  Voldemort let the silence spiral horribly before continuing.
"Only one power remained to me.  I could possess the bodies of others.  But I dared not go where other humans were plentiful, for I knew that the Aurors were still abroad and searching for me.
I sometimes inhabited animals - snakes, of course, being my preference - but I was little better off inside them than as pure spirit, for their bodies were ill adapted to perform magic . . . and my possession of them shortened their lives; none of them lasted long. . . .
"Then . . . four years ago . . . the means for my return seemed assured.  A wizard - young, foolish, and gullible - wandered across my path in the forest I had made my home.  Oh, he seemed the very chance I had been dreaming of... for he was a teacher at Dumbledore
s Stone.  I was not to be assured immortal life.  I was thwarted . . . thwarted, once again, by Harry Potter. ..."
Silence once more; nothing was stirring, not even the leaves on the yew tree.  The Death Eaters were quite motionless, the glittering eyes in their masks fixed upon Voldemort, and upon Harry.
"The servant died when I left his body, and I was left as weak as ever I had been," Voldemort continued.  "I returned to my hiding place far away, and I will not pretend to you that I didn

One or two of the masked wizards in the circle moved uncomfortably, but Voldemort took no notice.

But his journey back to me was not smooth, was it, Wormtail?  For, hungry one night, on the edge of the very forest where he had hoped to find me, he foolishly stopped at an inn for some food . . . and who should he meet there, but one Bertha Jorkins, a witch from the Ministry of Magic.

She told me that the Triwizard Tournament would be played at Hogwarts this year. She told me that she knew of a faithful Death Eater who would be only too willing to help me, if I could only contact him.  She told me many things. . . but the means I used to break the Memory Charm upon her were powerful, and when I had extracted all useful information from her, her mind and body were both damaged beyond repair.  She had now served her purpose.  I could not possess her.  I disposed of her.
Wormtail's body, of course, was ill adapted for possession, as all assumed him dead, and would attract far too much attention if noticed.  However, he was the able-bodied servant I needed, and, poor wizard though he is, Wormtail was able to follow the instructions I gave him, which would return me to a rudimentary, weak body of my own, a body I would be able to inhabit while awaiting the essential ingredients for true rebirth ... a spell or two of my own invention ... a little help from my dear Nagini,
a potion concocted from unicorn blood, and the snake venom Nagini provided ... I was soon returned to an almost human form, and strong enough to travel.

s Stone anymore, for I knew that Dumbledore would have seen to it that it was destroyed.  But I was willing to embrace mortal life again, before chasing immortality.  I set my sights lower ... I would settle for my old body back again, and my old strength.
"I knew that to achieve this - it is an old piece of Dark Magic, the potion that revived me tonight - I would need three powerful ingredients.  Well, one of them was already at hand, was it not, Wormtail?  Flesh given by a servant. . . .
"My father
But how to get at Harry Potter?  For he has been better protected than I think even he knows, protected in ways devised by Dumbledore long ago, when it fell to him to arrange the boy's future.  Dumbledore invoked an ancient magic, to ensure the boy's protection as long as he is in his relations' care.  Not even I can touch him there. . . . Then, of course, there was the Quidditch World Cup. ... I thought his protection might be weaker there, away from his relations and Dumbledore, but I was not yet strong enough to attempt kidnap in the midst of a horde of Ministry wizards.  And then, the boy would return to Hogwarts, where he is under the crooked nose of that Muggle-loving fool from morning until night.  So how could I take him?

s information, of course.  Use my one faithful Death Eater, stationed at Hogwarts, to ensure that the boy
s help and protection, and into my waiting arms.  And here he is ... the boy you all believed had been my downfall. ..."
Voldemort moved slowly forward and turned to face Harry.  He raised his wand.
"Crucio!"
It was pain beyond anything Harry had ever experienced; his very bones were on fire; his head was surely splitting along his scar; his eyes were rolling madly in his head; he wanted it to end ... to black out... to die ...
And then it was gone.  He was hanging limply in the ropes binding him to the headstone of Voldemort
 laughter.
"You see, I think, how foolish it was to suppose that this boy could ever have been stronger than me," said Voldemort.  "But I want there to be no mistake in anybody
 he whispered, and the snake glided away through the grass to where the Death Eaters stood watching.



CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR - PRIORI INCANTATEM

Wormtail approached Harry, who scrambled to find his feet, to support his own weight before the ropes were untied.  Wormtail raised his new silver hand, pulled out the wad of material gagging Harry, and then, with one swipe, cut through the bonds tying Harry to the gravestone.
There was a split second, perhaps, when Harry might have considered running for it, but his injured leg shook under him as he stood on the overgrown grave, as the Death Eaters closed ranks, forming a tighter circle around him and Voldemort, so that the gaps where the missing Death Eaters should have stood were filled.  Wormtail walked out of the circle to the place where Cedric's body lay and returned with Harry's wand, which he thrust roughly into Harry's hand without looking at him.  Then Wormtail resumed his place in the circle of watching Death Eaters.

  said Voldemort softly, his red eyes glinting through the darkness.
At these words Harry remembered, as though from a former life, the dueling club at Hogwarts he had attended briefly two years ago. ... All he had learned there was the Disarming Spell, 
. . . and what use would it be to deprive Voldemort of his wand, even if he could, when he was surrounded by Death Eaters, outnumbered by at least thirty to one?  He had never learned anything that could possibly fit him for this.  He knew he was facing the thing against which Moody had always warned . . . the unblockable Avada Kedavra curse - and Voldemort was right - his mother was not here to die for him this time. ... He was quite unprotected. . . .

 said Voldemort, bending a little, but keeping his snakelike face upturned to Harry.  

The Death Eaters were laughing again.  Voldemorts lipless mouth was smiling.  Harry did not bow.  He was not going to let Voldemort play with him before killing him ... he was not going to give him that satisfaction. . . .

 Voldemort said, raising his wand - and Harry felt his spine curve as though a huge, invisible hand were bending him ruthlessly forward, and the Death Eaters laughed harder than ever.

 said Voldemort softly, and as he raised his wand the pressure bearing down upon Harry lifted too.  
And now - we duel.
d ever screamed in his life -
And then it stopped. Harry rolled over and scrambled to his feet; he was shaking as uncontrollably as Wormtail had done when his hand had been cut off; he staggered sideways into the wall of watching Death Eaters, and they pushed him away, back toward Voldemort.
"A little break," said Voldemort, the slit-like nostrils dilating with excitement, "a little pause . . . That hurt, didn
t want me to do that again, do you?"
Harry didn
t going to play along.  He wasn
t going to beg. . . .
"I asked you whether you want me to do that again," said Voldemort softly.  "Answer me!  Imperial"
And Harry felt, for the third time in his life, the sensation that his mind had been wiped of all thought. . . . Ah, it was bliss, not to think, it was as though he were floating, dreaming ...just answer no ... say no ... just answer no. .. .
I will not, said a stronger voice, in the back of his head, I won
t do it, I won
I WON'T!
s mouth; they echoed through the graveyard, and the dream state was lifted as suddenly as though cold water had been thrown over him - back rushed the aches that the Cruciatus Curse had left all over his body - back rushed the realization of where he was, and what he was facing. . . .
"You won
 said Voldemort quietly, and the Death Eaters were not laughing now. 
t say no?  Harry, obedience is a virtue I need to teach you before you die. . . . Perhaps another little dose of pain?"
Voldemort raised his wand, but this time Harry was ready; with the reflexes born of his Quidditch training, he flung himself sideways onto the ground; he rolled behind the marble headstone of Voldemort s father, and he heard it crack as the curse missed him.
"We are not playing hide-and-seek, Harry," said Voldemort
You cannot hide from me.  Does this mean you are tired of our duel?  Does this mean that you would prefer me to finish it now, Harry?  Come out, Harry . . . come out and play, then ... it will be quick ... it might even be painless ... I would not know... I have never died. . . .
Expelliarmus!
Avada Kedavra!
s - they met in midair - and suddenly Harry
t have released it if he
s long white fingers too were gripping a wand that was shaking and vibrating.
And then - nothing could have prepared Harry for this - he felt his feet lift from the ground.  He and Voldemort were both being raised into the air, their wands still connected by that thread of shimmering golden light.  They glided away from the tombstone of Voldemort
Do nothing!
s; Harry held onto his wand more tightly, with both hands, and the golden thread remained unbroken.  "Do nothing unless I command you!"  Voldemort shouted to the Death Eaters.
And then an unearthly and beautiful sound filled the air. ... It was coming from every thread of the light-spun web vibrating around Harry and Voldemort.  It was a sound Harry recognized, though he had heard it only once before in his life:  phoenix song.
It was the sound of hope to Harry. . . the most beautiful and welcome thing he had ever heard in his life. . . . He felt as though the song were inside him instead of just around him. ... It was the sound he connected with Dumbledore, and it was almost as though a friend were speaking in his ear. . . .
Don
t. . . but no sooner had he thought it, than the thing became much harder to do.  His wand began to vibrate more powerfully than ever . . . and now the beam between him and Voldemort changed too ... it was as though large beads of light were sliding up and down the thread connecting the wands - Harry felt his wand give a shudder under his hand as the light beads began to slide slowly and steadily his way. . . . The direction of the beams movement was now toward him, from Voldemort, and he felt his wand shudder angrily. . . .
As the closest bead of light moved nearer to Harrys wand tip, the wood beneath his fingers grew so hot he feared it would burst into flame.  The closer that bead moved, the harder Harry
s wand that was vibrating extra-hard now . . . Voldemort who looked astonished, and almost fearful. . . .
One of the beads of light was quivering, inches from the tip of Voldemorts wand.  Harry didn
t know what it might achieve . . . but he now concentrated as he had never done in his life on forcing that bead of light right back into Voldemort s wand . . . and slowly . . . very slowly ... it moved along the golden thread ... it trembled for a moment. . . and then it connected. . . .
At once, Voldemorts wand began to emit echoing screams of pain . . . then - Voldemort
Hold on. Harry,
s, and surveyed Harry and Voldemort, and the golden web, and the connected wands, with mild surprise, leaning on his walking stick. . . .
"He was a real wizard, then?"  the old man said, his eyes on Voldemort.  "Killed me, that one did. . . . You fight him, boy. . . ."
But already, yet another head was emerging ... and this head, gray as a smoky statue, was a woman
Don't let go, now!
Don't let him get you, Harry - don't let go!
s dead victims whispered as they circled the duelers, whispered words of encouragement to Harry, and hissed words Harry couldn
d thought of more than any other tonight. . . .
The smoky shadow of a tall man with untidy hair fell to the ground as Bertha had done, straightened up, and looked at him . . . and Harry, his arms shaking madly now, looked back into the ghostly face of his father.
"Your mother
 he said quietly.  

And she came. . . first her head, then her body... a young woman with long hair, the smoky, shadowy form of Lily Potter blossomed from the end of Voldemort's wand, fell to the ground, and straightened like her husband.  She walked close to Harry, looking down at him, and she spoke in the same distant, echoing voice as the others, but quietly, so that Voldemort, his face now livid with fear as his victims prowled around him, could not hear. . ..



 Harry gasped, fighting now to keep a hold on his wand, which was slipping and sliding beneath his fingers.

 whispered the figure of Cedric, 


 said Harry, his face screwed up with the effort of holding the wand.

 whispered his father's voice, 


  Harry yelled; he didn't think he could have held on for another moment anyway - he pulled his wand upward with an almighty wrench, and the golden thread broke; the cage of light vanished, the phoenix song died - but the shadowy figures of Voldemort's victims did not disappear - they were closing in upon Voldemort, shielding Harry from his gaze -
And Harry ran as he had never run in his life, knocking two stunned Death Eaters aside as he passed; he zigzagged behind headstones, feeling their curses following him, hearing them hit the headstones - he was dodging curses and graves, pelting toward Cedric's body, no longer aware of the pain in his leg, his whole being concentrated on what he had to do -

 he heard Voldemort scream.
Ten feet from Cedric, Harry dived behind a marble angel to avoid the jets of red light and saw the tip of its wing shatter as the spells hit it.  Gripping his wand more tightly, he dashed out from behind the angel -

 he bellowed, pointing his wand wildly over his shoulder at the Death Eaters running at him.
From a muffled yell, he thought he had stopped at least one of them, but there was no time to stop and look; he jumped over the cup and dived as he heard more wand blasts behind him; more jets of light flew over his head as he fell, stretching out his hand to grab Cedric's arm...

 shrieked Voldemort.  Harry's hand had closed on Cedric's wrist; one tombstone stood between him and Voldemort, but Cedric was too heavy to carry, and the cup was out of reach -
Voldemort's red eyes flamed in the darkness. Harry saw his mouth curl into a smile, saw him raise his wand.

  Harry yelled, pointing his wand at the Triwizard Cup.  It flew into the air and soared toward him.  Harry caught it by the handle -
He heard Voldemort s scream of fury at the same moment that he felt the jerk behind his navel that meant the Portkey had worked - it was speeding him away in a whirl of wind and color, and Cedric along with him. . . . They were going back.

CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVE - VERITASERUM

Harry felt himself slam flat into the ground; his face was pressed into grass; the smell of it filled his nostrils.  He had closed his eyes while the Portkey transported him, and he kept them closed now.  He did not move.  All the breath seemed to have been knocked out of him; his head was swimming so badly he felt as though the ground beneath him were swaying like the deck of a ship.  To hold himself steady, he tightened his hold on the two things he was still clutching: the smooth, cold handle of the Triwizard Cup and Cedric's body.  He felt as though he would slide away into the blackness gathering at the edges of his brain if he let go of either of them.  Shock and exhaustion kept him on the ground, breathing in the smell of the grass, waiting . . . waiting for someone to do something . . . something to happen . . . and all the while, his scar burned dully on his forehead. . . .
A torrent of sound deafened and confused him; there were voices everywhere, footsteps, screams. ... He remained where he was, his face screwed up against the noise, as though it were a nightmare that would pass. . . .
Then a pair of hands seized him roughly and turned him over.


He opened his eyes.
He was looking up at the starry sky, and Albus Dumbledore was crouched over him. The dark shadows of a crowd of people pressed in around them, pushing nearer; Harry felt the ground beneath his head reverberating with their footsteps.
He had come back to the edge of the maze.  He could see the stands rising above him, the shapes of people moving in them, the stars above.
Harry let go of the cup, but he clutched Cedric to him even more tightly.  He raised his free hand and seized Dumbledore's wrist, while Dumbledore's face swam in and out of focus.

s back," Harry whispered.  "He


s going on?  What

The face of Cornelius Fudge appeared upside down over Harry; it looked white, appalled.

  it whispered.  
s dead!"
The words were repeated, the shadowy figures pressing in on them gasped it to those around them . . . and then others shouted it - screeched it - into the night - "He
  
s dead!"  "Cedric Diggory!  Dead!"
"Harry, let go of him," he heard Fudge
s limp body, but Harry wouldn
s face, which was still blurred and misted, came closer. 
"Harry, you can
s over.  Let go."
"He wanted me to bring him back," Harry muttered - it seemed important to explain this.  "He wanted me to bring him back to his parents. ..."
"That

Dumbledore bent down, and with extraordinary strength for a man so old and thin, raised Harry from the ground and set -him on his feet.  Harry swayed.  His head was pounding. His injured leg would no longer support his weight.  The crowd around them jostled, fighting to get closer, pressing darkly in on him - 
s happened?"  "What
 


ll need to go to the hospital wing!"  Fudge was saying loudly.  "He
s injured - Dumbledore, Diggory
re here, they


ll take Harry, Dumbledore, I




s coming over. . . . Don



Girls were screaming, sobbing hysterically.... The scene flickered oddly before Harry's eyes. . . .

ve got you . . . come on ... hospital wing . . ."
"Dumbledore said stay," said Harry thickly, the pounding in his scar making him feel as though he was about to throw up; his vision was blurring worse than ever.
"You need to lie down. . .. Come on now...."
Someone larger and stronger than he was was half pulling, half carrying him through the frightened crowd.  Harry heard people gasping, screaming, and shouting as the man supporting him pushed a path through them, taking him back to the castle.  Across the lawn, past the lake and the Durmstrang ship, Harry heard nothing but the heavy breathing of the man helping him walk.
"What happened. Harry?"  the man asked at last as he lifted Harry up the stone steps. Clunk.  Clunk.  Clunk.  It was Mad-Eye Moody.
"Cup was a Portkey," said Harry as they crossed the entrance hall.  "Took me and Cedric to a graveyard . . . and Voldemort was there . . . Lord Voldemort..."
Clunk.  Clunk.  Clunk.  Up the marble stairs . . .
"The Dark Lord was there?  What happened then?"
"Killed Cedric . . . they killed Cedric. . . ."
"And then?"
Clunk.  Clunk.  Clunk.  Along the corridor . . .
"Made a potion . . . got his body back. . . ."
"The Dark Lord got his body back?  He








ll be all right now . . . drink this. ..."
Harry heard a key scrape in a lock and felt a cup being pushed into his hands.
"Drink it... you

Moody helped tip the stuff down Harrys throat; he coughed, a peppery taste burning his throat. Moody's office came into sharper focus, and so did Moody himself. ... He looked as white as Fudge had looked, and both eyes were fixed unblinkingly upon Harry's face.

s back, Harry?  You
s back?  How did he do it?"
"He took stuff from his father
 said Harry.  His head felt clearer; his scar wasn't hurting so badly; he could now see Moodys face distinctly, even though the office was dark.  He could still hear screaming and shouting from the distant Quidditch field.

 said Moody.

 said Harry, raising his arm.  His sleeve was ripped where Wormtail's dagger had torn it.
Moody let out his breath in a long, low hiss.



 said Harry.  


  Moody asked quietly.  

But Harry had suddenly remembered.  He should have told Dumbledore, he should have said it straightaway -

s a Death Eater at Hogwarts!  There

Harry tried to get up, but Moody pushed him back down.

 he said quietly.

  said Harry wildly.  


 said Moody with an odd laugh.  


s gone?  He ran away?  But then - he didn


 said Moody slowly.  
t.  It was I who did that."
Harry heard, but didn
No, you didn't,
You didn't do that. . . you can't have done...
I assure you I did,
He forgave them, then?
The Death Eaters who went free?  The ones who escaped Azkaban?
What?
I asked you,
whether he forgave the scum who never even went to look for him.  Those treacherous cowards who wouldn't even brave Azkaban for him.  The faithless, worthless bits of filth who were brave enough to cavort in masks at the Quidditch World Cup, but fled at the sight of the Dark Mark when I fired it into the sky.
You fired . . . What are you talking about. . . ?
I told you. Harry ... I told you.  If there's one thing I hate more than any other, it's a Death Eater who walked free.  They turned their backs on my master when he needed them most.  I expected him to punish them.  I expected him to torture them.  Tell me he
hurt them, Harry. . . .
s face was suddenly lit with an insane smile.  "Tell me he told them that I, I alone remained faithful... prepared to risk everything to deliver to him the one thing he wanted above all... you"
"You didn
t be you. ..."
"Who put your name in the Goblet of Fire, under the name of a different school?  I did. Who frightened off every person I thought might try to hurt you or prevent you from winning the tournament?  I did.  Who nudged Hagrid into showing you the dragons?  I did.  Who helped you see the only way you could beat the dragon?  I did"
Moody
It hasn't been easy, Harry, guiding you through these tasks without arousing suspicion.  I have had to use every ounce of cunning I possess, so that my hand would not be detectable in your success.  Dumbledore would have been very suspicious if you had managed everything too easily.  As long as you got into that maze, preferably with a decent head start - then, I knew, I would have a chance of getting rid of the other champions and leaving your way clear.  But I also had to contend with your stupidity.  The second task . . . that was when I was most afraid we would fail.  I was keeping watch on you, Potter.  I knew you hadn't worked out the egg's clue, so I had to give you another hint -
You didn't,
Cedric gave me the clue -
Who told Cedric to open it underwater?  I did.  I trusted that he would pass the information on to you.  Decent people are so easy to manipulate, Potter.  I was sure Cedric would want to repay you for telling him about the dragons, and so he did.  But even then,
Potter, even then you seemed likely to fail.  I was watching all the time ... all those hours in the library.  Didn't you realize that the book you needed was in your dormitory all along?  I planted it there early on, I gave it to the Longbottom boy, don't you remember?  Magical Water Plants of the Mediterranean.  It would have told you all you needed to know about gillyweed.  I expected you to ask everyone and anyone you could for help.  Longbottom would have told you in an instant.  But you did not. . . you did not. . . . You have a streak of pride and independence that might have ruined all.

s office and then hurried to find you..."
Moodys wand was still pointing directly at Harry
You were so long in that lake, Potter, I thought you had drowned.  But luckily, Dumbledore took your idiocy for nobility, and marked you high for it.  I breathed again.

 said Moody.  

Harry stared at Moody.  He just didn't see how this could be. ... Dumbledore's friend, the famous Auror. . . the one who had caught so many Death Eaters ... It made no sense ... no sense at all. ...
The foggy shapes in the Foe-Glass were sharpening, had become more distinct.  Harry could see the outlines of three people over Moody's shoulder, moving closer and closer.  But Moody wasn't watching them.  His magical eye was upon Harry.

t manage to kill you. Potter, and he so wanted to," whispered Moody.  "Imagine how he will reward me when he finds I have done it for him.  I gave you to him - the thing he needed above all to regenerate - and then I killed you for him.  I will be honored beyond all other Death Eaters.  I will be his dearest, his closest supporter . . . closer than a son. ..."
Moody
The Dark Lord and I,
have much in common.  Both of us, for instance, had very disappointing fathers . . . very disappointing indeed.  Both of us suffered the indignity, Harry, of being named after those fathers.  And both of us had the pleasure . . . the very great pleasure ... of killing our fathers to ensure the continued rise of the Dark Order!
You're mad,
t stop himself- "you


 said Moody, his voice rising uncontrollably.  
ll see!  We
s mad, now that the Dark Lord has returned, with me at his side!  He is back, Harry Potter, you did not conquer him - and now - I conquer you!"
Moody raised his wand, he opened his mouth; Harry plunged his own hand into his robes -
"Stupefy!"  There was a blinding flash of red light, and with a great splintering and crashing, the door of Moody
s face had been, saw Albus Dumbledore, Professor Snape, and Professor McGonagall looking back at him out of the Foe-Glass.  He looked around and saw the three of them standing in the doorway, Dumbledore in front, his wand outstretched.
At that moment, Harry fully understood for the first time why people said Dumbledore was the only wizard Voldemort had ever feared.  The look upon Dumbledore
s face, no twinkle in the eyes behind the spectacles.  There was cold fury in every line of the ancient face; a sense of power radiated from Dumbledore as though he were giving off burning heat.
He stepped into the office, placed a foot underneath Moodys unconscious body, and kicked him over onto his back, so that his face was visible.  Snape followed him, looking into the Foe-Glass, where his own face was still visible, glaring into the room.  Professor McGonagall went straight to Harry.
"Come along, Potter," she whispered.  The thin line of her mouth was twitching as though she was about to cry.  "Come along . . . hospital wing ..."
"No," said Dumbledore sharply.
"Dumbledore, he ought to - look at him - he


 said Dumbledore curtly. 


 Harry said.  He was still in a state of complete disbelief.  


 said Dumbledore quietly.  

Dumbledore bent down over Moody's limp form and put a hand inside his robes.  He pulled out Moody's hip flask and a set of keys on a ring.  Then he turned to Professors McGonagall and Snape.

s house, where you will find a large black dog sitting in the pumpkin patch.  Take the dog up to my office, tell him I will be with him shortly, then come back here."
If either Snape or McGonagall found these instructions peculiar, they hid their confusion. Both turned at once and left the office.  Dumbledore walked over to the trunk with seven locks, fitted the first key in the lock, and opened it.  It contained a mass of spell-books.  Dumbledore closed the trunk, placed a second key in the second lock, and opened the trunk again.  The spellbooks had vanished; this time it contained an assortment of broken Sneako-scopes, some parchment and quills, and what looked like a silvery Invisibility Cloak.  Harry watched, astounded, as Dumbledore placed the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth keys in their respective locks, reopening the trunk each time, and revealing different contents each time.  Then he placed the seventh key in the lock, threw open the lid, and Harry let out a cry of amazement.
He was looking down into a kind of pit, an underground room, and lying on the floor some ten feet below, apparently fast asleep, thin and starved in appearance, was the real Mad-Eye Moody.  His wooden leg was gone, the socket that should have held the magical eye looked empty beneath its lid, and chunks of his grizzled hair were missing.  Harry stared, thunderstruck, between the sleeping Moody in the trunk and the unconscious Moody lying on the floor of the office.
Dumbledore climbed into the trunk, lowered himself, and fell lightly onto the floor beside the sleeping Moody.  He bent over him.
"Stunned - controlled by the Imperius Curse - very weak," he said.  "Of course, they would have needed to keep him alive.  Harry, throw down the imposter
s freezing. Madam Pomfrey will need to see him, but he seems in no immediate danger."
Harry did as he was told; Dumbledore covered Moody in the cloak, tucked it around him, and clambered out of the trunk again.  Then he picked up the hip flask that stood upon the desk, unscrewed it, and turned it over.  A thick glutinous liquid splattered onto the office floor.
"Polyjuice Potion, Harry," said Dumbledore.  "You see the simplicity of it, and the brilliance.  For Moody never does drink except from his hip flask, he
  Dumbledore looked down on the Moody in the trunk.  

Dumbledore pulled out the chair at the desk and sat down upon it, his eyes fixed upon the unconscious Moody on the floor.  Harry stared at him too.  Minutes passed in silence... .
Then, before Harry's very eyes, the face of the man on the floor began to change.  The scars were disappearing, the skin was becoming smooth; the mangled nose became whole and started to shrink.  The long mane of grizzled gray hair was withdrawing into the scalp and turning the color of straw.  Suddenly, with a loud clunk, the wooden leg fell away as a normal leg regrew in its place; next moment, the magical eyeball had popped out of the man's face as a real eye replaced it; it rolled away across the floor and continued to swivel in every direction.
Harry saw a man lying before him, pale-skinned, slightly freckled, with a mop of fair hair.  He knew who he was.  He had seen him in Dumbledore's Pensieve, had watched him being led away from court by the dementors, trying to convince Mr. Crouch that he was innocent. . . but he was lined around the eyes now and looked much older. . . .
There were hurried footsteps outside in the corridor.  Snape had returned with Winky at his heels.  Professor McGonagall was right behind them.

  Snape said, stopping dead in the doorway.  


 said Professor McGonagall, stopping dead and staring down at the man on the floor.
Filthy, disheveled, Winky peered around Snape's legs.  Her mouth opened wide and she let out a piercing shriek.


She flung herself forward onto the young man's chest.

s son!"
"He is simply Stunned, Winky," said Dumbledore.  "Step aside, please.  Severus, you have the potion?"
Snape handed Dumbledore a small glass bottle of completely clear liquid: the Veritaserum with which he had threatened Harry in class.  Dumbledore got up, bent over the man on the floor, and pulled him into a sitting position against the wall beneath the Foe-Glass, in which the reflections of Dumbledore, Snape, and McGonagall were still glaring down upon them all.  Winky remained on her knees, trembling, her hands over her face.  Dumbledore forced the mans mouth open and poured three drops inside it.  Then he pointed his wand at the mans chest and said, "Ennervate."
Crouch
Can you hear me?
s eyelids flickered.
"Yes," he muttered.
"I would like you to tell us," said Dumbledore softly, "how you came to be here.  How did you escape from Azkaban?"
Crouch took a deep, shuddering breath, then began to speak in a flat, expressionless voice.
"My mother saved me.  She knew she was dying.  She persuaded my father to rescue me as a last favor to her.  He loved her as he had never loved me.  He agreed.  They came to visit me.  They gave me a draft of Polyjuice Potion containing one of my mother
s appearance."
Winky was shaking her head, trembling.
"Say no more.  Master Barty, say no more, you is getting your father into trouble!"
But Crouch took another deep breath and continued in the same flat voice.
"The dementors are blind.  They sensed one healthy, one dying person entering Azkaban.  They sensed one healthy, one dying person leaving it.  My father smuggled me out, disguised as my mother, in case any prisoners were watching through their doors.
"My mother died a short while afterward in Azkaban.  She was careful to drink Polyjuice Potion until the end.  She was buried under my name and bearing my appearance. Everyone believed her to be me."
The man
And what did your father do with you, when he had got you home?
Staged my mother's death.  A quiet, private funeral.  That grave is empty.  The house-elf nursed me back to health.  Then I had to be concealed.  I had to be controlled.  My father had to use a number of spells to subdue me.  When I had recovered my strength, I thought only of finding my master . . . of returning to his service.
How did your father subdue you?
The Imperius Curse,
I was under my fathers control.  I was forced to wear an Invisibility Cloak day and night.  I was always with the house-elf.  She was my keeper and caretaker.  She pitied me.  She persuaded my father to give me occasional treats.  Rewards for my good behavior.
Master Barty, Master Barty,
You isn't ought to tell them, we is getting in trouble. ...
Did anybody ever discover that you were still alive?
Did anyone know except your father and the house-elf?
Yes,
A witch in my father's office.  Bertha Jorkins.  She came to the house with papers for my father s signature.  He was not at home. Winky showed her inside and returned to the kitchen, to me.  But Bertha Jorkins heard Winky talking to me.  She came to investigate.  She heard enough to guess who was hiding under the Invisibility Cloak.  My father arrived home.  She confronted him.  He put a very powerful Memory Charm on her to make her forget what she'd found out.  Too powerful.  He said it damaged her memory permanently.
Why is she coming to nose into my masters private business?
Why isn't she leaving us be?
Tell me about the Quidditch World Cup,
Winky talked my father into it,
She spent months persuading him.  I had not left the house for years.  I had loved Quidditch.  Let him go, she said.  He will be in his Invisibility Cloak.  He can watch.  Let him smell fresh air for once.  She said my mother would have wanted it.  She told my father that my mother had died to give me freedom.  She had not saved me for a life of imprisonment.  He agreed in the end.

But Winky didn't know that I was growing stronger.  I was starting to fight my father's Imperius Curse.  There were times when I was almost myself again.  There were brief periods when I seemed outside his control.  It happened, there, in the Top Box.  It was like waking from a deep sleep.  I found myself out in public, in the middle of the match, and I saw, in front of me, a wand sticking out of a boys pocket.  I had not been allowed a wand since before Azkaban.  I stole it.  Winky didn't know.  Winky is frightened of heights.  She had her face hidden.
Master Barty, you bad boy!
So you took the wand,
and what did you do with it?
We went back to the tent,
Then we heard them.  We heard the Death Eaters.  The ones who had never been to Azkaban.  The ones who had never suffered for my master.  They had turned their backs on him.  They were not enslaved, as I was.  They were free to seek him, but they did not.  They were merely making sport of Muggles.  The sound of their voices awoke me.  My mind was clearer than it had been in years.  I was angry.  I had the wand.
I wanted to attack them for their disloyalty to my master.  My father had left the tent; he had gone to free the Muggles.  Winky was afraid to see me so angry.  She used her own brand of magic to bind me to her.  She pulled me from the tent, pulled me into the forest, away from the Death Eaters.  I tried to hold her back.  I wanted to return to the campsite.  I wanted to show those Death Eaters what loyalty to the Dark Lord meant, and to punish them for their lack of it.  I used the stolen wand to cast the Dark Mark into the sky.

When Winky was discovered, my father knew I must be nearby.  He searched the bushes where she had been found and felt me lying there.  He waited until the other Ministry members had left the forest.  He put me back under the Imperius Curse and took me home.  He dismissed Winky.  She had failed him.  She had let me acquire a wand.  She had almost let me escape.
Now it was just Father and I, alone in the house.  And then . . . and then . . .
s head rolled on his neck, and an insane grin spread across his face.  "My master came for me.
"He arrived at our house late one night in the arms of his servant Wormtail.  My master had found out that I was still alive.  He had captured Bertha Jorkins in Albania.  He had tortured her.  She told him a great deal.  She told him about the Triwizard Tournament.  She told him the old Auror, Moody, was going to teach at Hogwarts.  He tortured her until he broke through the Memory Charm my father had placed upon her.  She told him I had escaped from Azkaban. She told him my father kept me imprisoned to prevent me from seeking my master.  And so my master knew that I was still his faithful servant - perhaps the most faithful of all.  My master conceived a plan, based upon the information Bertha had given him.  He needed me.  He arrived at our house near midnight.  My father answered the door."
The smile spread wider over Crouch
s petrified brown eyes were visible through her fingers.  She seemed too appalled to speak.
"It was very quick.  My father was placed under the Imperius Curse by my master. Now my father was the one imprisoned, controlled.  My master forced him to go about his business as usual, to act as though nothing was wrong.  And I was released.  I awoke.  I was myself again, alive as I hadn
And what did Lord Voldemort ask you to do?
He asked me whether I was ready to risk everything for him.  I was ready.  It was my dream, my greatest ambition, to serve him, to prove myself to him.  He told me he needed to place a faithful servant at Hogwarts.  A servant who would guide Harry Potter through the Triwizard Tournament without appearing to do so.  A servant who would watch over Harry Potter.  Ensure he reached the Triwizard Cup.  Turn the cup into a Portkey, which would take the first person to touch it to my master.  But first -
You needed Alastor Moody,
Wormtail and I did it.  We had prepared the Polyjuice Potion beforehand.  We journeyed to his house.  Moody put up a struggle.  There was a commotion.  We managed to subdue him just in time.  Forced him into a compartment of his own magical trunk.  Took some of his hair and added it to the potion.  I drank it; I became Moody's double.  I took his leg and his eye.  I was ready to face Arthur Weasley when he arrived to sort out the Muggles who had heard a disturbance.  I made the dustbins move around the yard.  I told Arthur Weasley I had heard intruders in my yard, who had set off the dustbins.  Then I packed up Moody's clothes and Dark detectors, put them in the trunk with Moody, and set off for Hogwarts.  I kept him alive, under the Imperius Curse.  I wanted to be able to question him.  To find out about his past, learn his habits, so that I could fool even Dumbledore.  I also needed his hair to make the Polyjuice Potion.  The other ingredients were easy.  I stole boom-slang skin from the dungeons. When the Potions master found me in his office, I said I was under orders to search it.
And what became of Wormtail after you attacked Moody?
Wormtail returned to care for my master, in my father's house, and to keep watch over my father.
But your father escaped,
Yes.  After a while he began to fight the Imperius Curse just as I had done.  There were periods when he knew what was happening.  My master decided it was no longer safe for my father to leave the house.  He forced him to send letters to the Ministry instead.  He made him write and say he was ill.  But Wormtail neglected his duty.  He was not watchful enough. My father escaped.  My master guessed that he was heading for Hogwarts.  My father was going to tell Dumbledore everything, to confess.  He was going to admit that he had smuggled me from Azkaban.

s escape.  He told me to stop him at all costs. So I waited and watched.  I used the map I had taken from Harry Potter.  The map that had almost ruined everything."
"Map?"  said Dumbledore quickly.  "What map is this?"
"Potter
s office one night.  He thought I was my father. We have the same first name.  I took the map from Potter that night.  I told him my father hated Dark wizards.  Potter believed my father was after Snape.
"For a week I waited for my father to arrive at Hogwarts.  At last, one evening, the map showed my father entering the grounds.  I pulled on my Invisibility Cloak and went down to meet him.  He was walking around the edge of the forest.  Then Potter came, and Krum.  I waited.  I could not hurt Potter; my master needed him.   Potter ran to get Dumbledore.  I Stunned Krum.  I killed my father."
"Noooo!"  wailed Winky.  "Master Barty, Master Barty, what is you saying?"
"You killed your father," Dumbledore said, in the same soft voice.  "What did you do with the body?"
"Carried it into the forest.  Covered it with the Invisibility Cloak.  I had the map with me.  I watched Potter run into the castle.  He met Snape.  Dumbledore joined them.  I watched Potter bringing Dumbledore out of the castle.  I walked back out of the forest, doubled around behind them, went to meet them.  I told Dumbledore Snape had told me where to come.
"Dumbledore told me to go and look for my father.  I went back to my father
s body.  He became a bone ... I buried it, while wearing the Invisibility Cloak, in the freshly dug earth in front of Hagrid

There was complete silence now, except for Winky's continued sobs.  Then Dumbledore said, 


 whispered Barty Crouch.  
s plan worked.  He is returned to power and I will be honored by him beyond the dreams of wizards."
The insane smile lit his features once more, and his head drooped onto his shoulder as Winky wailed and sobbed at his side.

CHAPTER THIRTY-SIX - THE PARTING OF THE WAYS

Dumbledore stood up.  He stared down at Barty Crouch for a moment with disgust on his face.  Then he raised his wand once more and ropes flew out of it, ropes that twisted themselves around Barty Crouch, binding him tightly.  He turned to Professor McGonagall.
"Minerva, could I ask you to stand guard here while I take Harry upstairs?"
"Of course," said Professor McGonagall.  She looked slightly nauseous, as though she had just watched someone being sick.  However, when she drew out her wand and pointed it at Barty Crouch, her hand was quite steady.
"Severus" - Dumbledore turned to Snape - "please tell Madam Pomfrey to come down here; we need to get Alastor Moody into the hospital wing.  Then go down into the grounds, find Cornelius Fudge, and bring him up to this office.  He will undoubtedly want to question Crouch himself.  Tell him I will be in the hospital wing in half an hour

Snape nodded silently and swept out of the room.

  Dumbledore said gently.
Harry got up and swayed again; the pain in his leg, which he had not noticed all the time he had been listening to Crouch, now returned in full measure.  He also realized that he was shaking.  Dumbledore gripped his arm and helped him out into the dark corridor.

 he said quiedy as they headed up the passageway.  

Harry nodded.  A kind of numbness and a sense of complete unreality were upon him, but he did not care; he was even glad of it.  He didn't want to have to think about anything that had happened since he had first touched the Triwizard Cup.  He didn't want to have to examine the memories, fresh and sharp as photographs, which kept flashing across his mind.  Mad-Eye Moody, inside the trunk.  Wormtail, slumped on the ground, cradling his stump of an arm. Voldemort, rising from the steaming cauldron.  Cedric. . . dead . . . Cedric, asking to be returned to his parents. . . .

 Harry mumbled, 


 said Dumbledore.  His voice, which had been so calm throughout the interrogation of Barty Crouch, shook very slightly for the first time.  
s house, and knew him best."
They had reached the stone gargoyle.  Dumbledore gave the password, it sprang aside, and he and Harry went up the moving spiral staircase to the oak door.  Dumbledore pushed it open. Sirius was standing there.  His face was white and gaunt as it had been when he had escaped Azkaban.  In one swift moment, he had crossed the room.
"Harry, are you all right?  I knew it - I knew something like this - what happened?"
His hands shook as he helped Harry into a chair in front of the desk.
"What happened?"  he asked more urgently.
Dumbledore began to tell Sirius everything Barty Crouch had said.  Harry was only half listening.  So tired every bone in his body was aching, he wanted nothing more than to sit here, undisturbed, for hours and hours, until he fell asleep and didn
s knee.
"
 said Harry quietly.  He stroked the phoenix's beautiful scarlet-and-gold plumage.  Fawkes blinked peacefully up at him.  There was something comforting about his warm weight.
Dumbledore stopped talking.  He sat down opposite Harry, behind his desk.  He was looking at Harry, who avoided his eyes.  Dumbledore was going to question him.  He was going to make Harry relive everything.

 said Dumbledore.

t we, Dumbledore?"  said Sirius harshly.  He had put a hand on Harrys shoulder.  "Let him have a sleep.  Let him rest."
Harry felt a rush of gratitude toward Sirius, but Dumbledore took no notice of Sirius
If I thought I could help you,
by putting you into an enchanted sleep and allowing you to postpone the moment when you would have to think about what has happened tonight, I would do it.  But I know better.  Numbing the pain for a while will make it worse when you finally feel it.  You have shown bravery beyond anything I could have expected of you.  I ask you to demonstrate your courage one more time.  I ask you to tell us what happened.
s body, lying on the ground beside the cup.
Once or twice, Sirius made a noise as though about to say something, his hand still tight on Harry
He said my blood would make him stronger than if he'd used someone else's,
He said the protection my - my mother left in me - he'd have it too.  And he was right - he could touch me without hurting himself, he touched my face.
s eyes.  But next second. Harry was sure he had imagined it, for when Dumbledore had returned to his seat behind the desk, he looked as old and weary as Harry had ever seen him.
"Very well," he said, sitting down again.  "Voldemort has overcome that particular barrier.  Harry, continue, please."
Harry went on; he explained how Voldemort had emerged from the cauldron, and told them all he could remember of Voldemort
s wands, he found his throat obstructed.  He tried to keep talking, but the memories of what had come out of Voldemort
The wands connected?
Why?
Priori Incantatem,
s and it was almost as though an invisible beam of understanding shot between them.
"The Reverse Spell effect?"  said Sirius sharply.
"Exactly," said Dumbledore.  "Harry
 he added, and he pointed at the scarlet-and-gold bird, perching peacefully on Harry's knee.

s feather came from Fawkes?"  Harry said, amazed.
"Yes," said Dumbledore.  "Mr. Ollivander wrote to tell me you had bought the second wand, the moment you left his shop four years ago."
"So what happens when a wand meets its brother?"  said Sirius.
"They will not work properly against each other," said Dumbledore.  "If, however, the owners of the wands force the wands to do battle ... a very rare effect will take place.  One of the wands will force the other to regurgitate spells it has performed - in reverse.  The most recent first. . . and then those which preceded it. . . ."
He looked interrogatively at Harry, and Harry nodded.
"Which means," said Dumbledore slowly, his eyes upon Harry
that some form of Cedric must have reappeared.
Diggory came back to life?
No spell can reawaken the dead,
All that would have happened is a kind of reverse echo.  A shadow of the living Cedric would have emerged from the wand . . . am I correct, Harry?
He spoke to me,
The . . . the ghost Cedric, or whatever he was, spoke.
An echo,
which retained Cedric's appearance and character.  I am guessing other such forms appeared . . . less recent victims of Voldemort's wand....
An old man,
Bertha Jorkins.  And . . .
Your parents?
Yes,
s grip on Harry
The last murders the wand performed,
In reverse order. More would have appeared, of course, had you maintained the connection.  Very well, Harry, these echoes, these shadows . .. what did they do?
s mother had told him what to do, how Cedric
s injured leg, and thick, pearly tears were falling from its eyes onto the wound left by the spider.  The pain vanished.  The skin mended.  His leg was repaired.
"I will say it again," said Dumbledore as the phoenix rose into the air and resettled itself upon the perch beside the door.  "You have shown bravery beyond anything I could have expected of you tonight.  Harry.  You have shown bravery equal to those who died fighting Voldemort at the height of his powers.  You have shouldered a grown wizard

Sirius nodded and stood up.  He transformed back into the great black dog and walked with Harry and Dumbledore out of the office, accompanying them down a flight of stairs to the hospital wing.
When Dumbledore pushed open the door. Harry saw Mrs. Weasley, Bill, Ron, and Hermione grouped around a harassed-looking Madam Pomfrey.  They appeared to be demanding to know where Harry was and what had happened to him.  All of them whipped around as Harry, Dumbledore, and the black dog entered, and Mrs. Weasley let out a kind of muffled scream.


She started to hurry toward him, but Dumbledore moved between them.

 he said, holding up a hand, 
 he added, looking around at Ron, Hermione, and Bill too, 

Mrs. Weasley nodded.  She was very white.  She rounded on Ron, Hermione, and Bill as though they were being noisy, and hissed,  


 said Madam Pomfrey, staring at the great black dog that was Sirius, 


 said Dumbledore simply.  

Harry felt an inexpressible sense of gratitude to Dumbledore for asking the others not to question him.  It wasn't as though he didn't want them there; but the thought of explaining it all over again, the idea of reliving it one more time, was more than he could stand.

 said Dumbledore. 
  He left.
As Madam Pomfrey led Harry to a nearby bed, he caught sight of the real Moody lying motionless in a bed at the far end of the room.  His wooden leg and magical eye were lying on the bedside table.

  Harry asked.

ll be fine," said Madam Pomfrey, giving Harry some pajamas and pulling screens around him.  He took off his robes, pulled on the pajamas, and got into bed. Ron, Hermione, Bill, Mrs. Weasley, and the black dog came around the screen and settled themselves in chairs on either side of him.  Ron and Hermione were looking at him almost cautiously, as though scared of him.       
"I
 he told them.  

Mrs. Weasleys eyes filled with tears as she smoothed his bed-covers unnecessarily.
Madam Pomfrey, who had bustled off to her office, returned holding a small bottle of some purple potion and a goblet.

ll need to drink all of this. Harry," she said.  "It

Harry took the goblet and drank a few mouthfuls.  He felt himself becoming drowsy at once.  Everything around him became hazy; the lamps around the hospital wing seemed to be winking at him in a friendly way through the screen around his bed; his body felt as though it was sinking deeper into the warmth of the feather matress.  Before he could finish the potion, before he could say another word, his exhaustion had carried him off to sleep.

Harry woke up, so warm, so very sleepy, that he didn't open his eyes, wanting to drop off again.  The room was still dimly lit; he was sure it was still nighttime and had a feeling that he couldn't have been asleep very long.
Then he heard whispering around him.

ll wake him if they don



Harry opened his eyes blearily.  Someone had removed his glasses.  He could see the fuzzy outlines of Mrs. Weasley and Bill close by.  Mrs. Weasley was on her feet.

s Fudge
 she whispered.  
s Minerva McGonagall
t it?  But what are they arguing about?"
Now Harry could hear them too:  people shouting and running toward the hospital wing.
"Regrettable, but all the same, Minerva -"  Cornelius Fudge was saying loudly.
"You should never have brought it inside the castle!"  yelled Professor McGonagall. "When Dumbledore finds out -"
Harry heard the hospital doors burst open.  Unnoticed by any of the people around his bed, all of whom were staring at the door as Bill pulled back the screens, Harry sat up and put his glasses back on.
Fudge came striding up the ward.  Professors McGonagall and Snape were at his heels.
"Where
  Fudge demanded of Mrs. Weasley.

s not here," said Mrs. Weasley angrily.  "This is a hospital wing. Minister, don
d do better to -"
But the door opened, and Dumbledore came sweeping up the ward.
"What has happened?" said Dumbledore sharply, looking from Fudge to Professor McGonagall.  "Why are you disturbing these people?  Minerva, I


  she shrieked.  

Harry had never seen Professor McGonagall lose control like this.  There were angry blotches of color in her cheeks, and a hands were balled into fists; she was trembling with fury.-

s events," said Snape, in a low voice; he seemed to feel his personal safety was in question.  He insisted on summoning a dementor to accompany him into the castle.  He brought it up to the office where Barty Crouch -"
"I told him you would not agree, Dumbledore!"  McGonagall fumed.  "I told him you would never allow dementors to set foot inside the castle, but -"
"My dear woman!"  roared Fudge, who likewise looked angrier than Harry had ever seen him, "as Minister of Magic, it is my decision whether I wish to bring protection with me when interviewing a possibly dangerous -"
But Professor McGonagall
s.
"The moment that - that thing entered the room," she screamed, pointing at Fudge, trembling all over, "it swooped down on Crouch and - and -"
Harry felt a chill in his stomach as Professor McGonagall struggled to find words to describe what had happened.  He did not need her to finish her sentence.  He knew what the dementor must have done.  It had administered its fatal kiss to Barty Crouch.  It had sucked his soul out through his mouth.  He was worse than dead.
"By all accounts, he is no loss!" blustered Fudge.  "It seems he has been responsible for several deaths


 said Dumbledore.  He was staring hard at Fudge, as though seeing him plainly for the first time.  


s no mystery, is it?"  blustered Fudge.  "He was a raving lunatic!  From what Minerva and Severus have told me, he seems to have thought he was doing it all on You-Know-Who


 Dumbledore said.  

Fudge looked as though someone had just swung a heavy weight into his face.  Dazed and blinking, he stared back at Dumbledore as if he couldn't quite believe what he had just heard.  He began to sputter, still goggling at Dumbledore.



 said Dumbledore, 


 said Fudge, and Harry was astonished to see a slight smile dawning on his face, 
t seriously believe that You-Know-Who - back?  Come now, come now . . . certainly, Crouch may have believed himself to be acting upon You-Know-Who


 said Dumbledore steadily.  
s rebirth.  I will explain it all to you if you will step up to my office."
Dumbledore glanced around at Harry and saw that he was awake, but shook his head and said, "I am afraid I cannot permit you to question Harry tonight."
Fudge
You are - er - prepared  to take Harry's word on this, are you, Dumbledore?
s silence, which was broken by Sirius growling.  His hackles were raised, and he was baring his teeth at Fudge.
"Certainly, I believe Harry," said Dumbledore.  His eyes were blazing now.  "I heard Crouch
s account of what happened after he touched the Triwizard Cup; the two stories make sense, they explain everything that has happened since Bertha Jorkins disappeared last summer."
Fudge still had that strange smile on his face.  Once again, he glanced at Harry before answering.
"You are prepared to believe that Lord Voldemort has returned, on the word of a lunatic murderer, and a boy who . . . well..."
Fudge shot Harry another look, and Harry suddenly understood.
"You
 he said quietly.
Ron, Hermione, Mrs. Weasley, and Bill all jumped.  None of them had realized that Harry was awake.
Fudge reddened slightly, but a defiant and obstinate look came over his face.

  he said, looking at Dumbledore.  
ve been keeping certain facts about the boy very quiet?  A Parselmouth, eh?  And having funny turns all over the place -"
"I assume that you are referring to the pains Harry has been experiencing in his scar?" said Dumbledore coolly.
"You admit that he has been having these pains, then?"  said Fudge quickly. "Headaches?  Nightmares?  Possibly - hallucinations?"
"Listen to me, Cornelius," said Dumbledore, taking a step toward Fudge, and once again, he seemed to radiate that indefinable sense of power that Harry had felt after Dumbledore had Stunned young Crouch.  "Harry is as sane as you or I.  That scar upon his forehead has not addled his brains.  I believe it hurts him when Lord Voldemort is close by, or feeling particularly murderous."
Fudge had taken half a step back from Dumbledore, but he looked no less stubborn.
"You
ve never heard of a curse scar acting as an alarm bell before. ..."
"Look, I saw Voldemort come back!"  Harry shouted.  He tried to get out of bed again, but Mrs. Weasley forced him back.  "I saw the Death Eaters!  I can give you their names! Lucius Malfoy -"
Snape made a sudden movement, but as Harry looked at him, Snape
Malfoy was cleared!
A very old family - donations to excellent causes -
Macnair!
Also cleared!  Now working for the Ministry!
Avery - Nott - Crabbe - Goyle -
You are merely repeating the names of those who were acquitted of being Death Eaters thirteen years ago!
You could have found those names in old reports of the trials!  For heavens sake, Dumbledore - the boy was full of some crackpot story at the end of last year too - his tales are getting taller, and you're still swallowing them - the boy can talk to snakes.  Dumbledore, and you still think he's trustworthy?
You fool!
Cedric Diggory!  Mr. Crouch!  These deaths were not the random work of a lunatic!
I see no evidence to the contrary!
It seems to me that you are all determined to start a panic that will destabilize everything we have worked for these last thirteen years!
t believe what he was hearing.  He had always thought of Fudge as a kindly figure, a little blustering, a little pompous, but essentially good-natured.  But now a short, angry wizard stood before him, refusing, point-blank, to accept the prospect of disruption in his comfortable and ordered world - to believe that Voldemort could have risen.
"Voldemort has returned," Dumbledore repeated.  "If you accept that fact straightaway. Fudge, and take the necessary measures, we may still be able to save the situation.  The first and most essential step is to remove Azkaban from the control of the dementors -"
"Preposterous!"  shouted Fudge again.  "Remove the dementors?  I


s most dangerous supporters in the care of creatures who will join him the instant he asks them!"  said Dumbledore.  "They will not remain loyal to you, Fudge!  Voldemort can offer them much more scope for their powers and their pleasures than you can! With the dementors behind him, and his old supporters returned to him, you will be hard-pressed to stop him regaining the sort of power he had thirteen years ago!"
Fudge was opening and closing his mouth as though no words could express his outrage.
"The second step you must take - and at once," Dumbledore pressed on, "is to send envoys to the giants."
"Envoys to the giants?"  Fudge shrieked, finding his tongue again.  "What madness is this?"
"Extend them the hand of friendship, now, before it is too late," said Dumbledore, "or Voldemort will persuade them, as he did before, that he alone among wizards will give them their rights and their freedom!"
"You - you cannot be serious!"  Fudge gasped, shaking his head and retreating further from Dumbledore.  "If the magical community got wind that I had approached the giants - people hate them, Dumbledore - end of my career -"
"You are blinded," said Dumbledore, his voice rising now, the aura of power around him palpable, his eyes blazing once more, "by the love of the office you hold, Cornelius!  You place too much importance, and you always have done, on the so-called purity of blood!  You fail to recognize that it matters not what someone is born, but what they grow to be!  Your dementor has just destroyed the last remaining member of a pure-blood family as old as any - and see what that man chose to make of his life!  I tell you now- take the steps I have suggested, and you will be remembered, in office or out, as one of the bravest and greatest Ministers of Magic we have ever known.  Fail to act - and history will remember you as the man who stepped aside and allowed Voldemort a second chance to destroy the world we have tried to rebuild!"
"Insane," whispered Fudge, still backing away.  "Mad . . ."
And then there was silence.  Madam Pomfrey was standing frozen at the foot of Harry
If your determination to shut your eyes will carry you as far as this, Cornelius,
we have reached a parting of the ways.  You must act as you see fit.  And I - I shall act as I see fit.
s voice carried no hint of a threat; it sounded like a mere statement, but Fudge bristled as though Dumbledore were advancing upon him with a wand.
"Now, see here, Dumbledore," he said, waving a threatening finger.  "I
ve had a lot of respect for you.  I might not have agreed with some of your decisions, but I
t many who
re going to work against me -"
"The only one against whom I intend to work," said Dumbledore, "is Lord Voldemort.  If you are against him, then we remain, Cornelius, on the same side."
It seemed Fudge could think of no answer to this.  He rocked backward and forward on his small feet for a moment and spun his bowler hat in his hands.  Finally, he said, with a hint of a plea in his voice, "He can
t be ..."
Snape strode forward, past Dumbledore, pulling up the left sleeve of his robes as he went.  He stuck out his forearm and showed it to Fudge, who recoiled.
"There," said Snape harshly.  "There.  The Dark Mark.  It is not as clear as it was an hour or so ago, when it burned black, but you can still see it.  Every Death Eater had the sign burned into him by the Dark Lord.  It was a means of distinguishing one another, and his means of summoning us to him.  When he touched the Mark of any Death Eater, we were to Disapparate, and Apparate, instantly, at his side.  This Mark has been growing clearer all year. Karkaroff s too.  Why do you think Karkaroff fled tonight?  We both felt the Mark burn.  We both knew he had returned.  Karkaroff fears the Dark Lord

Fudge stepped back from Snape too.  He was shaking his head.  He did not seem to have taken in a word Snape had said.  He stared, apparently repelled by the ugly mark on Snape's arm, then looked up at Dumbledore and whispered, 
t know what you and your staff are playing at, Dumbledore, but I have heard enough.  I have no more to add.  I will be in touch with you tomorrow, Dumbledore, to discuss the running of this school.  I must return to the Ministry."
He had almost reached the door when he paused.  He turned around, strode back down the dormitory, and stopped at Harry
Your winnings,
One thousand Galleons.  There should have been a presentation ceremony, but under the circumstances .. .
s bed.
"There is work to be done," he said.  "Molly... am I right in thinking that I can count on you and Arthur?"
"Of course you can," said Mrs. Weasley.  She was white to the lips, but she looked resolute.  "We know what Fudge is.  It
s fondness for Muggles that has held him back at the Ministry all these years.  Fudge thinks he lacks proper wizarding pride."
"Then I need to send a message to Arthur," said Dumbledore.  "All those that we can persuade of the truth must be notified immediately, and he is well placed to contact those at the Ministry who are not as shortsighted as Cornelius."
"I
 said Bill, standing up.  
ll go now."
"Excellent," said Dumbledore.  "Tell him what has happened.  Tell him I will be in direct contact with him shortly.  He will need to be discreet, however.  If Fudge thinks I am interfering at the Ministry -"
"Leave it to me," said Bill.
He clapped a hand on Harry
Minerva,
I want to see Hagrid in my office as soon as possible.  Also - if she will consent to come - Madame Maxime.
Poppy,
would you be very kind and go down to Professor Moodys office, where I think you will find a house-elf called Winky in considerable distress?  Do what you can for her, and take her back to the kitchens.  I think Dobby will look after her for us.
Very - very well,
s footsteps had died away, before he spoke again.
"And now," he said, "it is time for two of our number to recognize each other for what they are.  Sirius ... if you could resume your usual form."
The great black dog looked up at Dumbledore, then, in an instant, turned back into a man.
Mrs. Weasley screamed and leapt back from the bed.
"Sirius Black!"  she shrieked, pointing at him.
"Mum, shut up!"  Ron yelled.  "It

Snape had not yelled or jumped backward, but the look on his face was one of mingled fury and horror.

  he snarled, staring at Sirius, whose face showed equal dislike.  


 said Dumbledore, looking between them, 

Harry thought Dumbledore was asking for a near miracle.  Sirius and Snape were eyeing each other with the utmost loathing.

 said Dumbledore, with a bite of impatience in his voice, 
That will do to be going on with,
Now I have work for each of you.  Fudge's attitude, though not unexpected, changes everything.  Sirius, I need you to set off at once.  You are to alert Remus Lupin, Arabella Figg, Mundungus Fletcher - the old crowd.  Lie low at Lupin's for a while; I will contact you there.
But -
You'll see me very soon. Harry,
I promise you.  But I must do what I can, you understand, don't you?
Yeah,
Yeah . . . of course I do.
Severus,
you know what I must ask you to do.  If you are ready . . . if you are prepared ...
I am,
Then good luck,
I must go downstairs,
I must see the Diggorys.  Harry - take the rest of your potion.  I will see all of you later.
You've got to take the rest of your potion. Harry,
You have a good long sleep.  Try and think about something else for a while . . . think about what you're going to buy with your winnings!
I don't want that gold,
You have it.  Anyone can have it.  I shouldn't have won it.  It should've been Cedric's.
It wasn't your fault. Harry,
I told him to take the cup with me,
s voice, the sight of Cedric, dead on the ground all started spinning in his head until he could hardly bear it, until he was screwing up his face against the howl of misery fighting to get out of him.
There was a loud slamming noise, and Mrs. Weasley and Harry broke apart.  Hermione was standing by the window.  She was holding something tight in her hand.
"Sorry," she whispered.
"Your potion, Harry," said Mrs. Weasley quickly, wiping her eyes on the back of her hand.
Harry drank it in one gulp.  The effect was instantaneous.  Heavy, irresistible waves of dreamless sleep broke over him; he fell back onto his pillows and thought no more.

CHAPTER THIRTY-SEVEN - THE BEGINNING

When he looked back, even a month later, Harry found he had only scattered memories of the next few days.  It was as though he had been through too much to take in any more.  The recollections he did have were very painful.  The worst, perhaps, was the meeting with the Diggorys that took place the following morning.
They did not blame him for what had happened; on the contrary, both thanked him for returning Cedric
s grief seemed to be beyond tears.
"He suffered very little then," she said, when Harry had told her how Cedric had died. "And after all, Amos ... he died just when he

When they got to their feet, she looked down at Harry and said, 

Harry seized the sack of gold on the bedside table.

 he muttered to her.  
ve been Cedric
 
But she backed away from him.

s yours, dear, I couldn


Harry returned to Gryffindor Tower the following evening.  From what Hermione and Ron told him, Dumbledore had spoken to the school that morning at breakfast.  He had merely requested that they leave Harry alone, that nobody ask him questions or badger him to tell the story of what had happened in the maze.  Most people, he noticed, were skirting him in the corridors, avoiding his eyes.  Some whispered behind their hands as he passed.  He guessed that many of them had believed Rita Skeeter's article about how disturbed and possibly dangerous he was.  Perhaps they were formulating their own theories about how Cedric had died.  He found he didn't care very much.  He liked it best when he was with Ron and Hermione and they were talking about other things, or else letting him sit in silence while they played chess.  He felt as though all three of them had reached an understanding they didn't need to put into words; that each was waiting for some sign, some word, of what was going on outside Hogwarts - and that it was useless to speculate about what might be coming until they knew anything for certain.  The only time they touched upon the subject was when Ron told Harry about a meeting Mrs. Weasley had had with Dumbledore before going home.

 he said.  


 said Harry.

s got his reasons," said Ron, shaking his head darkly.  "I suppose we
t we?"
The only person apart from Ron and Hermione that Harry felt able to talk to was Hagrid.  As there was no longer a Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, they had those lessons free.  They used the one on Thursday afternoon to go down and visit Hagrid in his cabin.  It was a bright and sunny day; Fang bounded out of the open door as they approached, barking and wagging his tail madly.
"Who
 called Hagrid, coming to the door.  

He strode out to meet them, pulled Harry into a one-armed hug, ruffled his hair, and said, 

They saw two bucket-size cups and saucers on the wooden table in front of the fireplace when they entered Hagrid's cabin.

 a cuppa with Olympe," Hagrid said.  "She
 left."
"Who?"  said Ron curiously.
"Madame Maxime, o
  said Hagrid.

  said Ron.

re talkin
 said Hagrid airily, fetching more cups from the dresser.  When he had made tea and offered around a plate of doughy cookies, he leaned back in his chair and surveyed Harry closely through his beetle-black eyes.

?"  he said gruffly
"Yeah," said Harry.
"No, yeh
 said Hagrid.  
re not. But yeh will be."
Harry said nothing.
"Knew he was goin
 said Hagrid, and Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked up at him, shocked.  
 his time.  It had ter happen.  Well, now it has, an
ll jus
ll fight.  Migh
s Dumbledores plan, anyway. Great man, Dumbledore.  
ve got him, I

Hagrid raised his bushy eyebrows at the disbelieving expressions on their faces.

 worryin
 it," he said.  "What
 will come, an we
 you did. Harry."
Hagrid
Yeh did as much as yer father would've done, an' I can' give yeh no higher praise than that.
d smiled in days.  "What
  he asked.  


 said Hagrid.  
m not s
 it, no, not even ter you lot.  Olympe - Madame Maxime ter you - might be comin



Hagrid flinched at the sound of the name.

 be," he said evasively.  "Now . . . who
 visit the las
 - jokin
 he added hastily, seeing the looks on their faces.

It was with a heavy heart that Harry packed his trunk up in the dormitory on the night before his return to Privet Drive.  He was dreading the Leaving Feast, which was usually a cause for celebration, when the winner of the Inter-House Championship would be announced. He had avoided being in the Great Hall when it was full ever since he had left the hospital wing, preferring to eat when it was nearly empty to avoid the stares of his fellow students.
When he, Ron, and Hermione entered the Hall, they saw at once that the usual decorations were missing.  The Great Hall was normally decorated with the winning House's colors for the Leaving Feast.  Tonight, however, there were black drapes on the wall behind the teachers' table.  Harry knew instantly that they were there as a mark of respect to Cedric.
The real Mad-Eye Moody was at the staff table now, his wooden leg and his magical eye back in place.  He was extremely twitchy, jumping every time someone spoke to him.  Harry couldn't blame him; Moodys fear of attack was bound to have been increased by his ten-month imprisonment in his own trunk.  Professor Karkaroff s chair was empty.  Harry wondered, as he sat down with the other Gryffindors, where Karkaroff was now, and whether Voldemort had caught up with him.
Madame Maxime was still there.  She was sitting next to Hagrid.  They were talking quietly together.  Further along the table, sitting next to Professor McGonagall, was Snape.  His eyes lingered on Harry for a moment as Harry looked at him.  His expression was difficult to read.  He looked as sour and unpleasant as ever.  Harry continued to watch him, long after Snape had looked away.
What was it that Snape had done on Dumbledores orders, the night that Voldemort had returned?  And why. . . why . . . was Dumbledore so convinced that Snape was truly on their side?  He had been their spy, Dumbledore had said so in the Pensieve.  Snape had turned spy against Voldemort, 
  Was that the job he had taken up again?  Had he made contact with the Death Eaters, perhaps?  Pretended that he had never really gone over to Dumbledore, that he had been, like Voldemort himself, biding his time?
Harry's musings were ended by Professor Dumbledore, who stood up at the staff table. The Great Hall, which in any case had been less noisy than it usually was at the Leaving Feast, became very quiet.

 said Dumbledore, looking around at them all, 

He paused, and his eyes fell upon the Hufflepuff table.  Theirs had been the most subdued table before he had gotten to his feet, and theirs were still the saddest and palest faces in the Hall.

 said Dumbledore, 
 he gestured toward the Hufflepuffs, 

They did it, all of them; the benches scraped as everyone in the Hall stood, and raised their goblets, and echoed, in one loud, low, rumbling voice, 

Harry caught a glimpse of Cho through the crowd.  There were tears pouring silently down her face.  He looked down at the table as they all sat down again.

 Dumbledore continued. 

Harry raised his head and stared at Dumbledore.


A panicked whisper swept the Great Hall.  People were staring at Dumbledore in disbelief, in horror.  He looked perfectly calm as he watched them mutter themselves into silence.

 Dumbledore continued, 

Stunned and frightened, every face in the Hall was turned toward Dumbledore now... or almost every face.  Over at the Slytherin table.  Harry saw Draco Malfoy muttering something to Crabbe and Goyle.  Harry felt a hot, sick swoop of anger in his stomach.  He forced himself to look back at Dumbledore.

 Dumbledore went on. 

A kind of ripple crossed the Great Hall as a few heads turned in Harry's direction before flicking back to face Dumbledore.

 said Dumbledore.  
s body to Hogwarts.  He showed, in every respect, the sort of bravery that few wizards have ever shown in facing Lord Voldemort, and for this, I honor him."
Dumbledore turned gravely to Harry and raised his goblet once more.  Nearly everyone in the Great Hall followed suit.  They murmured his name, as they had murmured Cedric
The Triwizard Tournament's aim was to further and promote magical understanding.  In the light of what has happened - of Lord Voldemorts return - such ties are more important than ever before.
Every guest in this Hall,
will be welcomed back here at any time, should they wish to come.  I say to you all, once again - in the light of Lord Voldemort's return, we are only as strong as we are united, as weak as we are divided.  Lord Voldemorts gift for spreading discord and enmity is very great. We can fight it only by showing an equally strong bond of friendship and trust.  Differences of habit and language are nothing at all if our aims are identical and our hearts are open.

Remember Cedric.  Remember, if the time should come when you have to make a choice between what is right and what is easy, remember what happened to a boy who was good, and kind, and brave, because he strayed across the path of Lord Voldemort.  Remember Cedric Diggory.
s trunk was packed; Hedwig was back in her cage on top of it.  He, Ron, and Hermione were waiting in the crowded entrance hall with the rest of the fourth years for the carriages that would take them back to Hogsmeade station.  It was another beautiful summer
'Arry!
We will see each uzzer again, I 'ope,
I am 'oping to get a job 'ere, to improve my Eenglish.
It's very good already,
Good-bye, 'Arry,
It 'az been a pleasure meeting you!
t help but lift slightly as he watched Fleur hurry back across the lawns to Madame Maxime, her silvery hair rippling in the sunlight.
Wonder how the Durmstrang students are getting back," said Ron.  "D


 said a gruff voice. 

Krum had come to say good-bye to Hermione.  
  he asked her.

 said Hermione, looking slightly flustered, and following Krum through the crowd and out of sight.

d better hurry up!"  Ron called loudly after her.  "The carriages

He let Harry keep a watch for the carriages, however, and spent the next few minutes craning his neck over the crowd to try and see what Krum and Hermione might be up to.  They returned quite soon.  Ron stared at Hermione, but her face was quite impassive.

 said Krum abruptly to Harry.  
 he added, scowling.

  said Harry
Krum shrugged.  He held out his hand as Fleur had done, shook Harry's hand, and then Ron's. Ron looked as though he was suffering some sort of painful internal struggle.  Krum had already started walking away when Ron burst out, 

Hermione turned away, smiling at the horseless carriages that were now trundling toward them up the drive, as Krum, looking surprised but gratified, signed a fragment of parchment for Ron.

The weather could not have been more different on the journey back to King's Cross than it had been on their way to Hogwarts the previous September.  There wasn't a single cloud in the sky.  Harry, Ron, and Hermione had managed to get a compartment to themselves. Pigwidgeon was once again hidden under Rons dress robes to stop him from hooting continually; Hedwig was dozing, her head under her wing, and Crookshanks was curled up in a spare seat like a large, furry ginger cushion.  Harry, Ron, and Hermione talked more fully and freely than they had all week as the train sped them southward.  Harry felt as though Dumbledore's speech at the Leaving Feast had unblocked him, somehow.  It was less painful to discuss what had happened now.  They broke off their conversation about what action Dumbledore might be taking, even now, to stop Voldemort only when the lunch trolley arrived.
When Hermione returned from the trolley and put her money back into her schoolbag, she dislodged a copy of the Daily Prophet that she had been carrying in there.  Harry looked at it, unsure whether he really wanted to know what it might say, but Hermione, seeing him looking at it, said calmly, 
s nothing in there.  You can look for yourself, but there
ve been checking every day.  Just a small piece the day after the third task saying you won the tournament.  They didn


ll never keep Rita quiet," said Harry.  "Not on a story like this."
"Oh, Rita hasn
 said Hermione in an oddly constrained voice.  
 she added, her voice now trembling slightly, 
t going to be writing anything at all for a while.  Not unless she wants me to spill the beans on her."
"What are you talking about?" said Ron.
"I found out how she was listening in on private conversations when she wasn
 said Hermione in a rush.
Harry had the impression that Hermione had been dying to tell them this for days, but that she had restrained herself in light of everything else that had happened.

  said Harry at once.

  said Ron, staring at her.

 she said.

  said Harry, perplexed.  


 said Hermione happily.

t work -"
"Oh not electronic bugs," said Hermione.  "No, you see ... Rita Skeeter" - Hermiones voice trembled with quiet triumph - "is an unregistered Animagus.  She can turn -"
Hermione pulled a small sealed glass jar out other bag.
"- into a beetle."
"You
 said Ron.  
t.. . she


 said Hermione happily, brandishing the jar at them.
Inside were a few twigs and leaves and one large, fat beetle.

s never - you
 Ron whispered, lifting the jar to his eyes.

m not," said Hermione, beaming.  "I caught her on the windowsill in the hospital wing.  Look very closely, and you

Harry looked and saw that she was quite right.  He also remembered something.



 said Hermione.  
d had our conversation by the lake.  And unless I
s been buzzing around for stories all year."
"When we saw Malfoy under that tree ..." said Ron slowly.
"He was talking to her, in his hand," said Hermione.  "He knew, of course.  That
s been getting all those nice little interviews with the Slytherins.  They wouldn

Hermione took the glass jar back from Ron and smiled at the beetle, which buzzed angrily against the glass.

ve told her I
 said Hermione.  
ve put an Unbreakable Charm on the jar, you see, so she can
ve told her she
t break the habit of writing horrible lies about people."
Smiling serenely, Hermione placed the beetle back inside her schoolbag.
The door of the compartment slid open.
"Very clever. Granger," said Draco Malfoy.
Crabbe and Goyle were standing behind him.  All three of them looked more pleased with themselves, more arrogant and more menacing, than Harry had ever seen them.
"So," said Malfoy slowly, advancing slightly into the compartment and looking slowly around at them, a smirk quivering on his lips.  "You caught some pathetic reporter, and Potter
s favorite boy again.  Big deal."
His smirk widened.  Crabbe and Goyle leered.
"Trying not to think about it, are we?"  said Malfoy softly, looking around at all three of them.  "Trying to pretend it hasn


 said Harry.
He had not been this close to Malfoy since he had watched him muttering to Crabbe and Goyle during Dumbledores speech about Cedric.  He could feel a kind of ringing in his ears. His hand gripped his wand under his robes.

ve picked the losing side, Potter!  I warned you!  I told you you ought to choose your company more carefully, remember?  When we met on the train, first day at Hogwarts?  I told you not to hang around with riffraff like this!"  He jerked his head at Ron and Hermione. "Too late now. Potter!  They
s back!  Mudbloods and Muggle-lovers first!  Well - second - Diggory was the f-"
It was as though someone had exploded a box of fireworks within the compartment. Blinded by the blaze of the spells that had blasted from every direction, deafened by a series of bangs, Harry blinked and looked down at the floor.
Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle were all lying unconscious in the doorway.  He, Ron, and Hermione were on their feet, all three of them having used a different hex.  Nor were they the only ones to have done so.
"Thought we
 said Fred matter-of-factly, stepping onto Goyle and into the compartment.  He had his wand out, and so did George, who was careful to tread on Malfoy as he followed Fred inside.

 said George, looking down at Crabbe.  


 said Harry.

 said George lightly.  
t be mixed.  He seems to have sprouted little tentacles all over his face.  Well, let
t add much to the decor."
Ron, Harry, and George kicked, rolled, and pushed the unconscious Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle - each of whom looked distinctly the worse for the jumble of jinxes with which they had been hit - out into the corridor, then came back into the compartment and rolled the door shut.
"Exploding Snap, anyone?"  said Fred, pulling out a pack of cards.
They were halfway through their fifth game when Harry decided to ask them.
"You going to tell us, then?"  he said to George.  "Who you were blackmailing?"
"Oh," said George darkly.  "That."
"It doesn
 said Fred, shaking his head impatiently.  
t anything important.  Not now, anyway."
"We
 said George, shrugging.
But Harry, Ron, and Hermione kept on asking, and finally, Fred said, 


 said Harry sharply. 


 said George gloomily.  
t have the brains."
"Well, what, then?"  said Ron.
Fred hesitated, then said, "You remember that bet we had with him at the Quidditch World Cup?  About how Ireland would win, but Krum would get the Snitch?"
"Yeah," said Harry and Ron slowly.
"Well, the git paid us in leprechaun gold he




 said Fred impatiently, 
t it?  By next morning, it had gone!"
"But - it must
t it?"  said Hermione.
George laughed very bitterly.
"Yeah, that
d made a mistake, he


 said Fred.  
t giving us anything."
"So we asked for our money back," said George glowering.
"He didn
  gasped Hermione.

 said Fred.

  said Ron.

 said George.  
Course, we found out what was going on in the end. Lee Jordan
s in big trouble with the goblins.  Borrowed loads of gold off them.  A gang of them cornered him in the woods after the World Cup and took all the gold he had, and it still wasn
s lost everything gambling.  Hasn


  said Harry.

 said Fred.  


s why he kept trying to help me win!"  said Harry.  "Well - I did win, didn


 said George, shaking his head.  
d win outright.  So Bagman had to run for it.  He did run for it right after the third task."
George sighed deeply and started dealing out the cards again.
The rest of the journey passed pleasantly enough; Harry wished it could have gone on all summer, in fact, and that he would never arrive at King
Fred - George - wait a moment.
Take it,
s hands.
"What?"  said Fred, looking flabbergasted.
"Take it," Harry repeated firmly.  "I don


re mental," said George, trying to push it back at Harry.
"No, I
 said Harry.  
s for the joke shop."
"He is mental," Fred said in an almost awed voice.
"Listen," said Harry firmly.  "If you don
m throwing it down the drain.  I don
t need it.  But I could do with a few laughs.  We could all do with a few laughs.  I
re going to need them more than usual before long."
"Harry," said George weakly, weighing the money bag in his hands, "there


 said Harry, grinning.  

The twins stared at him.

t tell your mum where you got it... although she might not be so keen for you to join the Ministry anymore, come to think of it. . . ."
"Harry," Fred began, but Harry pulled out his wand.
"Look," he said flatly, "take it, or I
re from you."
He left the compartment before they could say another word, stepping over Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle, who were still lying on the floor, covered in hex marks.


Uncle Vernon was waiting beyond the barrier.  Mrs. Weasley was close by him.  She hugged Harry very tightly when she saw him and whispered in his ear, "I think Dumbledore will let you come to us later in the summer.  Keep in touch, Harry."
"See you. Harry," said Ron, clapping him on the back.
"
  said Hermione, and she did something she had never done before, and kissed him on the cheek.

