Listen,
Believe me, I hear it,
No. Listen.
InGen Construction.
Is there a doctor here?
I’m Dr. Carter,
Ed Regis. We’ve got a very sick man here, doctor.
Then you better take him to San José,
We would, but we can’t get over the mountains in this weather. You have to
 treat him here.
What happened to him?
Construction accident,
He fell. One of the backhoes ran over
 him.
Tell me again about this injury,
I didn’t see it,
They say the backhoe dragged him.
Because it almost looks as if he was mauled,
Mauled?
No, no. It was a backhoe, believe me.
Do you want lavage?
Yes,
After you block him.
How long ago did this happen?
An hour.
All right,
Wait outside.
Why?
Do you want me to help him, or not?
I continue to wash?
Yes,
Raptor,
Lo sa raptor…
What does it mean?
I do not know, doctor. Lo sa raptor—no es español.
No?
Then please continue to wash him.
No, doctor.
Bad smell.
Raptor,
It bit him.
What bit him?
Raptor.
What’s a raptor?
It means hupia.
It is not normal,
 this smell,
It is the hupia.
What the hell’s happening?
No,
The hupia will cross over.
Manuel, for God’s sake—
No.
No. You do not understand these things.
I’m sure you did all you could,
It is better,
Where is this island they’ve come from?
In the ocean. Perhaps a hundred, hundred and twenty miles offshore.
Pretty far for a resort,
I hope they never come back.
raptor,
ravisher
abductor.
Elena…
Sí, doctor?
Do you know what is a raptor?
Raptor?
Yes. You know this word?
Sí.
It means… a person who comes in the night and takes
 away a child.
A kidnapper?
Yes.
A hupia?
Do not say this word, doctor.
Why not?
Do not speak of hupia now,
It is not wise to say this word now.
But does a raptor bite and cut his victims?
Bite and cut?
No, doctor. Nothing like this. A raptor is a
 man who takes a new baby.
I will call to you when she is ready,
 doctor. I think one hour more, perhaps two.
At the earliest drawings of the fractal curve, few clues
 to the underlying mathematical structure will be seen.
Mike, are you sure this is the right road? We haven’t seen any other people
 for hours.
There was another car fifteen minutes ago,
Remember, the
 blue one?
Going the other way…
Darling, you wanted a deserted beach,
and that’s what you’re going
 to get.
I hope you’re right.
Yeah, Dad, I hope you’re right,
Trust me, I’m right.
It’s beautiful, isn’t it? Look
 at that view. It’s beautiful.
It’s okay,
Look!
 Look!
What was it?
A monkey?
Maybe a squirrel monkey,
Can I count it?
I don’t know,
I don’t think it was a squirrel
 monkey,
I think it was just another howler.
Hey,
According to this book, ‘the beaches of Cabo
 Blanco are frequented by a variety of wildlife, including howler and white-faced
 monkeys, three-toed sloths, and coatimundis.’ You think we’ll see a three-toed
 sloth, Dad?
I bet we do.
Really?
Just look in the mirror.
Very funny, Dad.
Honestly, I don’t know how I’m going to get this
 weight off.
You look great, hon.
Don’t forget you need your sunscreen,
Later,
I’m going to see if there’s a sloth.
You think she’s all
 right?
Honey, there’s nobody here for miles,
What about snakes?
Oh, for God’s sake,
There’s no snakes on a beach.
Well, there might be…
Honey,
Snakes are cold-blooded. They’re reptiles. They can’t
 control their body temperature. It’s ninety degrees on that sand. If a snake came
out, it’d be cooked. Believe me. There’s no snakes on the beach.
Let her go.
 Let her have a good time.
Sorry,
I just don’t have anything.
I just wish I could see her,
That’s all. Just see her.
I’m sure she’s fine,
You don’t think she’d leave the beach?
No, hon, I don’t.
I feel so isolated here,
I thought that’s what you wanted,
I did.
Well, then, what’s the problem?
I just wish I could see her, is all,
I think she is quite comfortable now,
She’ll be all right now?
I believe so,
I have given her another dose of steroids, and her
 breathing is much easier. And you can see the edema in her arm is greatly
 reduced.
About those bites…
We have no identification yet,
I myself haven’t seen bites like
 that before. But you’ll notice they are disappearing. It’s already quite difficult to
 make them out. Fortunately I have taken photographs for reference. And I have
 washed her arm to collect some samples of the sticky saliva—one for analysis
 here, a second to send to the labs in San José, and the third we will keep frozen in
 case it is needed. Do you have the picture she made?
Yes,
This is the animal that bit her?
Yes,
She said it was a green lizard, the size of a chicken
 or a crow.
I don’t know of such a lizard,
She has drawn it standing on
 its hind legs.…
That’s right,
She said it walked on its hind legs.
I am not an expert.
 I’ve asked for Dr. Guitierrez to visit us here. He is a senior researcher at the
 Reserva Biológica de Carara, which is across the bay. Perhaps he can identify the
 animal for us.
Isn’t there someone from Cabo Blanco?
That’s where she was
 bitten.
Unfortunately not,
Cabo Blanco has no permanent staff, and
 no researcher has worked there for some time. You were probably the first people
 to walk on that beach in several months. But I am sure you will find Dr. Guitierrez
 to be knowledgeable.
Mr. and Mrs. Bowman, how you doing, nice to
 meet you,
I think Tina’s
 going to be fine. I just want to be clear about a few details,
Your daughter says she was bitten by a green lizard,
 approximately one foot high, which walked upright onto the beach from the
 mangrove swamp?
That’s right, yes.
And the lizard made some kind of a vocalization?
Tina said it chirped, or squeaked.
Like a mouse, would you say?
Yes.
Well, then,
I know this lizard.
I am sure this lizard was a
 Basiliscus amoratus, a striped basilisk lizard, found here in Costa Rica and also in
 Honduras. Standing on their hind legs, they are sometimes as tall as a foot.
Are they poisonous?
No, Mrs. Bowman. Not at all.
According to the literature, fourteen percent of
 people are strongly allergic to reptiles,
and your daughter seems to be
 one of them.
She was screaming, she said it was so painful.
Probably it was,
Reptile saliva contains serotonin, which
 causes tremendous pain.
Her blood pressure came down with
 antihistamines?
Yes,
Promptly.
Serotonin,
No question.
But why would a lizard bite her in the
 first place?
Lizard bites are very common,
Animal handlers in zoos get
 bitten all the time. And just the other day I heard that a lizard had bitten an infant
 in her crib in Amaloya, about sixty miles from where you were. So bites do occur.
 I’m not sure why your daughter had so many bites. What was she doing at the
 time?
Nothing. She said she was sitting pretty still, because she didn’t want to
 frighten it away.
Sitting pretty still,
Well. I don’t
 think we can say exactly what happened. Wild animals are unpredictable.
And what about the foamy saliva on her arm?
I keep thinking
 about rabies.…
No, no,
A reptile can’t carry rabies, Mrs. Bowman. Your
 daughter has suffered an allergic reaction to the bite of a basilisk lizard. Nothing
 more serious.
I would accept this as a picture of a basilisk lizard,
A few details are wrong, of course. The neck is much too long, and she has drawn
 the hind legs with only three toes instead of five. The tail is too thick, and raised
 too high. But otherwise this is a perfectly serviceable lizard of the kind we are
 talking about.
But Tina specifically said the neck was long,
And she
 said there were three toes on the foot.
Tina’s pretty observant,
I’m sure she is,
But I still think your daughter was
 bitten by a common basilisk amoratus, and had a severe herpetological reaction.
 Normal time course with medication is twelve hours. She should be just fine in the
 morning.
Go on. Say thank you to Dr. Cruz,
Thank you, Dr. Cruz,
I feel much better now.
You have a different shirt.
That’s right, Tina.
 When I work all night at the hospital, in the morning I change my shirt.
But not your tie?
No. Just my shirt.
Mike told you she’s observant.
She certainly is.
Enjoy the rest of your holiday in Costa Rica, Tina.
I will.
Oh, Tina, do you
 remember the lizard that bit you?
Uh-huh.
You remember its feet?
Uh-huh.
Did it have any toes?
Yes.
How many toes did it have?
Three,
How do you know that?
Because I looked,
Anyway, all the birds on the beach made marks in
 the sand with three toes, like this.
And the lizard made those kind of marks in the sand, too.
The lizard made marks like a bird?
Uh-huh,
He walked like a bird, too. He jerked his head like this, up
 and down.
I must admit the girl’s story is puzzling,
I have been doing
 some checking myself. I am no longer certain she was bitten by a basilisk. Not
 certain at all.
Then what could it be?
Well,
let’s not speculate prematurely. By the way, have you
 heard of any other lizard bites at the hospital?
No, why?
Let me know, my friend, if you do.
Strange,
No, like all the others,
Oh, very nice,
Partially masticated fragment of unidentified Costa Rican
 lizard.
This one’s all yours, Dr. Stone.
Is this the material
 from Ed Simpson’s lab?
Yes,
But I don’t know why they’d send a lizard to us.
His secretary called,
Simpson’s on a field trip in Borneo for the
 summer, and because there’s a question of communicable disease with this lizard,
 she asked our lab to take a look at it. Let’s see what we’ve got.
International Biological
 Specimen Container
Huh,
Looks eaten.
Yes, it does,
What do they want with us?
Lizard is biting local
 children. They have a question about identification of the species, and a concern
 about diseases transmitted from the bite.
One of the kids drew a picture of the lizard.
Obviously we can’t verify the species,
But we can check diseases easily enough, if we can get any blood out of this
 fragment. What are they calling this animal?
 ‘Basiliscus amoratus with three-toed genetic anomaly,’ 
Okay,
Let’s get started. While you’re waiting for it to thaw, do an
 X ray and take Polaroids for the record. Once we have blood, start running
 antibody sets until we get some matches. Let me know if there’s a problem.
Oh, whose
 kid drew the dinosaur?
What?
The dinosaur. Isn’t that what it is? My kid draws them all the time.
This is a lizard,
From Costa Rica. Some girl down there drew a
 picture of it.
No,
Look at it. It’s very clear. Big head,
 long neck, stands on its hind legs, thick tail. It’s a dinosaur.
It can’t be. It was only a foot tall.
So? There were little dinosaurs back then,
Believe me, I know. I
 have two boys, I’m an expert. The smallest dinosaurs were under a foot.
 Teenysaurus or something, I don’t know. Those names are impossible. You’ll never
 learn those names if you’re over the age of ten.
You don’t understand,
This is a picture of a
 contemporary animal. They sent us a fragment of the animal. It’s in the freezer
 now.
I don’t know,
But that looks like a dinosaur to me.
Impossible.
Why?
It could be a leftover or a remnant or whatever they
 call them.
You know,
if this is a dinosaur, Richard, it could be a big
 deal.
It’s not a dinosaur.
Has anybody checked it?
No,
Well, take it to the Museum of Natural History or something,
You really should.
I’d be embarrassed.
You want me to do it for you?
No,
I don’t.
You’re not going to do anything?
Nothing at all.
It’s not a dinosaur, it’s a lizard. And whatever it is, it can wait until Dr. Simpson
 gets back from Borneo to identify it. That’s final, Alice. This lizard’s not going
 anywhere.
With subsequent drawings of the fractal curve,
 sudden changes may appear.
Hey, Alan!
Hey, Alan!
Visitor!
Bob Morris,
 EPA,
I’m with the San Francisco office.
You look hot. Want a beer?
Jesus, yeah.
When I first came over the hill, I thought this was an Indian reservation,
No,
Just the best way to live out here.
These’re Blackfoot tipis, built around four poles,
Sioux tipis
 are built around three. But this used to be Blackfoot territory, so we thought…
Uh-huh,
Very fitting.
How long you been out here?
About sixty cases,
We measure time in beer. We start in June with a hundred cases. We’ve gone
 through about sixty so far.
Sixty-three, to be exact,
Ellie keeps us going,
She’s very good at what she
 does.
What does she do?
Paleobotany,
And I also do the standard field preps.
I thought dinosaurs were big,
They were,
But everything you see here comes from babies.
 Snakewater is important primarily because of the number of dinosaur nesting
 sites here. Until we started this work, there were hardly any infant dinosaurs
 known. Only one nest had ever been found, in the Gobi Desert. We’ve discovered a
 dozen different hadrosaur nests, complete with eggs and bones of infants.
They look like chicken bones,
Yes,
They’re very bird-like.
And what about those?
Rejects,
Bones too fragmentary when we took them out of the
 ground. In the old days we’d just discard them, but nowadays we send them for
 genetic testing.
Genetic testing?
Here you go,
We’re pretty informal here,
Want to step into my office?
Sure,
Make yourself comfortable.
You’re probably wondering why
 I’m here.
It’s a long way to come, Mr. Morris.
Well,
to get right to the point, the EPA is concerned about the
 activities of the Hammond Foundation. You receive some funding from them.
Thirty thousand dollars a year,
For the last five years.
What do you know about the foundation?
The Hammond Foundation is a respected source of academic
 grants. They fund research all over the world, including several dinosaur
 researchers. I know they support Bob Kerry out of the Tyrrell in Alberta, and John
 Weller in Alaska. Probably more.
Do you know why the Hammond Foundation supports so much dinosaur
 research?
Of course. It’s because old John Hammond is a dinosaur nut.
You’ve met Hammond?
Once or twice. He comes here for brief visits. He’s quite
 elderly, you know. And eccentric, the way rich people sometimes are. But always
 very enthusiastic. Why?
Well,
the Hammond Foundation is actually a rather mysterious
 organization.
These are the digs the foundation financed last year. Notice
 anything odd about them? Montana, Alaska, Canada, Sweden… They’re all sites in
 the north. There’s nothing below the forty-fifth parallel.
It’s the same, year after year. Dinosaur projects to the south, in Utah or
 Colorado or Mexico, never get funded. The Hammond Foundation only supports
 cold-weather digs. We’d like to know why.
And there are other puzzles,
For example, what is the
 relationship of dinosaurs to amber?
Amber?
Yes. It’s the hard yellow resin of dried tree sap—
I know what it is,
But why are you asking?
Because,
over the last five years, Hammond has purchased
 enormous quantities of amber in America, Europe, and Asia, including many
 pieces of museum-quality jewelry. The foundation has spent seventeen million
 dollars on amber. They now possess the largest privately held stock of this
 material in the world.
I don’t get it,
Neither does anybody else,
As far as we can tell, it doesn’t make
 any sense at all. Amber is easily synthesized. It has no commercial or defense
 value. There’s no reason to stockpile it. But Hammond has done just that, over
 many years.
Amber,
And what about his island in Costa Rica?
Ten years ago,
 the Hammond Foundation leased an island from the government of Costa Rica.
 Supposedly to set up a biological preserve.
I don’t know anything about that,
I haven’t been able to find out much,
The island is a hundred
 miles off the west coast. It’s very rugged, and it’s in an area of ocean where the
 combinations of wind and current make it almost perpetually covered in fog. They
 used to call it Cloud Island. Isla Nublar. Apparently the Costa Ricans were amazed
 that anybody would want it.
The reason I
 mention it,
is that, according to the records, you were paid a
 consultant’s fee in connection with this island.
I was?
Oh, sure,
I remember that. It was weird as hell, but I remember
 it. And it didn’t have anything to do with an island.
Had you heard of InGen before?
No.
How did they contact you?
Telephone call. It was a man named Gennaro or Gennino, something like that.
Donald Gennaro,
He’s the legal counsel for InGen.
Anyway, he wanted to know about eating habits of dinosaurs. And he offered
 me a fee to draw up a paper for him.
Gennaro was particularly interested in young dinosaurs. Infants and
 juveniles. What they ate. I guess he thought I would know about that.
Did you?
Not really, no. I told him that. We had found lots of skeletal material, but we
 had very little dietary data. But Gennaro said he knew we hadn’t published
 everything, and he wanted whatever we had. And he offered a very large fee. Fifty
 thousand dollars.
You mind?
No, go ahead.
So Gennaro telephoned you in 1984. What happened then?
Well,
You see our operation here. Fifty thousand would support
 two full summers of digging. I told him I’d do what I could.
So you agreed to prepare a paper for him.
Yes.
On the dietary habits of juvenile dinosaurs?
Yes.
You met Gennaro?
No. Just on the phone.
Did Gennaro say why he wanted this information?
Yes,
He was planning a museum for children, and he wanted to
 feature baby dinosaurs. He said he was hiring a number of academic consultants,
 and named them. There were paleontologists like me, and a mathematician from
Texas named Ian Malcolm, and a couple of ecologists. A systems analyst. Good
 group.
So you accepted the consultancy?
Yes. I agreed to send him a summary of our work: what we knew about the
 habits of the duckbilled hadrosaurs we’d found.
What kind of information did you send?
Everything: nesting behavior, territorial ranges, feeding behavior, social
 behavior. Everything.
And how did Gennaro respond?
He kept calling and calling. Sometimes in the middle of the night. Would the
 dinosaurs eat this? Would they eat that? Should the exhibit include this? I could
 never understand why he was so worked up. I mean, I think dinosaurs are
 important, too, but not that important. They’ve been dead sixty-five million years.
 You’d think his calls could wait until morning.
I see,
And the fifty thousand dollars?
I got tired of Gennaro and called the whole thing off. We
 settled up for twelve thousand. That must have been about the middle of ’85.
And InGen? Any other contact with them?
Not since 1985.
And when did the Hammond Foundation begin to fund your research?
I’d have to look,
But it was around then. Mid-eighties.
And you know Hammond as just a rich dinosaur enthusiast.
Yes.
Look,
If the EPA is so concerned about John Hammond and what
 he’s doing—the dinosaur sites in the north, the amber purchases, the island in
 Costa Rica—why don’t you just ask him about it?
At the moment, we can’t,
Why not?
Because we don’t have any evidence of wrongdoing,
But
 personally, I think it’s clear John Hammond is evading the law.
I was first contacted,
by the Office of Technology Transfer.
 The OTT monitors shipments of American technology which might have military
 significance. They called to say that InGen had two areas of possible illegal
 technology transfer. First, InGen shipped three Cray XMPs to Costa Rica. InGen
 characterized it as a transfer within corporate divisions, and said they weren’t for
 resale. But OTT couldn’t imagine why the hell somebody’d need that power in
 Costa Rica.
Three Crays,
Is that a kind of computer?
Very powerful supercomputers. To put it in perspective, three
 Crays represent more computing power than any other privately held company in
 America. And InGen sent the machines to Costa Rica. You have to wonder why.
I give up. Why?
Nobody knows. And the Hoods are even more worrisome,
Hoods are automated gene sequencers—machines that work out the genetic code
 by themselves. They’re so new that they haven’t been put on the restricted lists
yet. But any genetic engineering lab is likely to have one, if it can afford the half
million-dollar price tag.
Well, it seems InGen
 shipped twenty-four Hood sequencers to their island in Costa Rica.
 “Again, they said it was a transfer within divisions and not an export,
There wasn’t much that OTT could do. They’re not officially concerned with
 use. But InGen was obviously setting up one of the most powerful genetic
 engineering facilities in the world in an obscure Central American country. A
 country with no regulations. That kind of thing has happened before.
So that’s why we began our investigation of InGen,
About three
 weeks ago.
And what have you actually found?
Not much,
When I go back to San Francisco, we’ll probably
 have to close the investigation. And I think I’m about finished here.
By the way, what does ‘juvenile hyperspace’ mean?
That’s just a fancy label for my report,
Hyperspace is a term for
 multidimensional space—like three-dimensional tic-tac-toe. If you were to take all
 the behaviors of an animal, its eating and movement and sleeping, you could plot
 the animal within the multidimensional space. Some paleontologists refer to the
 behavior of an animal as occurring in an ecological hyperspace. Juvenile
 hyperspace would just refer to the behavior of juvenile dinosaurs—if you wanted to
 be as pretentious as possible.
He’s in
 a meeting right now. Can he call you back?
Thanks for your help and the
 beer,
No problem,
Did Hammond ever ask for any physical materials from your site? Bones, or
 eggs, or anything like that?
No,
Dr. Sattler mentioned you do some genetic work here.…
Well, not exactly,
When we remove fossils that are broken or for
 some other reason not suitable for museum preservation, we send the bones out
 to a lab that grinds them up and tries to extract proteins for us. The proteins are
 then identified and the report is sent back to us.
Which lab is that?
Medical Biologic Services in Salt Lake.
How’d you choose them?
Competitive bids.
The lab has nothing to do with InGen?
Not that I know,
One last thing,
Suppose InGen wasn’t really making a museum
 exhibit. Is there anything else they could have done with the information in the
 report you gave them?
Sure. They could feed a baby hadrosaur.
A baby hadrosaur. That’d be something to see. How big
 were they?
About so,
Squirrel-size.
And how long before they become full-grown?
Three years,
Give or take.
Well, thanks again for your help.
Take it easy driving back,
What did you think?
Naïve.
You like the part where John Hammond is the evil arch-villain?
John Hammond’s about as sinister as Walt Disney. By the way, who
 called?
Oh,
it was a woman named Alice Levin. She works at Columbia
 Medical Center. You know her?
No.
Well, it was something about identifying some remains. She wants you to call
 her back right away.
Miss Levin? This is Alan Grant. What’s this
 about a… You have what? A what?
Oh, I doubt that very
 much, Miss Levin… No, I really don’t have time, I’m sorry… Well, I’d take a look at
 it, but I can pretty much guarantee it’s a basilisk lizard. But… yes, you can do
 that. All right. Send it now.
These people.
What’s it about?
Some lizard she’s trying to identify,
She’s going to fax me an X
 ray.
Incidentally, I’ve got a new find for you. A good one.
Yes?
Found it just before the kid showed up. On South Hill, horizon
 four. Infant velociraptor: jaw and complete dentition, so there’s no question about
 identity. And the site looks undisturbed. We might even get a full skeleton.
That’s fantastic,
How young?
Young,
Two, maybe four months at most.
And it’s definitely a velociraptor?
Definitely,
Maybe our luck has finally turned.
You must be pretty excited,
I said, you must be excited,
My God,
You
 think it’s an amassicus?
Yes,
Or a triassicus. The skeleton is so light.
But it’s no lizard,
No,
This is not a lizard. No three-toed lizard has walked on this
 planet for two hundred million years.
Could this X ray be faked?
I don’t know,
But it’s almost impossible to fake an X ray. And
 Procompsognathus is an obscure animal. Even people familiar with dinosaurs have
 never heard of it.
Specimen acquired on the beach of Cabo Blanco, July 16…
 Apparently a howler monkey was eating the animal, and this was all that was
 recovered. Oh… and it says the lizard attacked a little girl.
I doubt that,
But perhaps. Procompsognathus was so small and
 light we assume it must be a scavenger, only feeding off dead creatures. And you
 can tell the size
it’s about twenty centimeters to the
 hips, which means the full animal would be about a foot tall. About as big as a
 chicken. Even a child would look pretty fearsome to it. It might bite an infant, but
 not a child.
You think this could really be a legitimate
 rediscovery?
Like the coelacanth?
Maybe,
But could it be real?
What about the age?
The age is a problem.
Well,
We know animals have survived. Crocodiles are basically
 Triassic animals living in the present. Sharks are Triassic. So we know it has
 happened before.
And the thing is,
how else do we explain it? It’s either
 a fake—which I doubt—or else it’s a rediscovery. What else could it be?
Alice Levin again,
Let’s see if she’ll send us the
 actual specimen.
Yes, I’ll hold for
 Mr. Hammond. Yes. Of course.
Hammond? What does he want?
Yes, Mr. Hammond. Yes,
 it’s good to hear your voice, too… Yes…
Oh, you did? Oh yes?
 Is that right?
Still as eccentric as ever.
 You’ve got to hear this.
—hell of an annoyance from some EPA fellow, seems to have
 gone off half cocked, all on his own, running around the country talking to people,
 stirring up things. I don’t suppose anybody’s come to see you way out there?
As a matter of fact,
somebody did come to see me.
I was afraid of that. Smart-ass kid named Morris?
Yes, his name was Morris,
He’s going to see all our consultants,
He went to see Ian
 Malcolm the other day—you know, the mathematician in Texas? That’s the first I
 knew of it. We’re having one hell of a time getting a handle on this thing, it’s
 typical of the way government operates, there isn’t any complaint, there isn’t any
 charge, just harassment from some kid who’s unsupervised and is running
 around at the taxpayers’ expense. Did he bother you? Disrupt your work?
No, no, he didn’t bother me.
Well, that’s too bad, in a way,
because I’d try and get an
 injunction to stop him if he had. As it is, I had our lawyers call over at EPA to find
 out what the hell their problem is. The head of the office claims he didn’t know
 there was any investigation! You figure that one out. Damned bureaucracy is all it
is. Hell, I think this kid’s trying to get down to Costa Rica, poke around, get onto
 our island. You know we have an island down there?
No,
I didn’t know.
Oh yes, we bought it and started our operation oh, four or five years ago now. I
 forget exactly. Called Isla Nublar—big island, hundred miles offshore. Going to be
 a biological preserve. Wonderful place. Tropical jungle. You know, you ought to see
 it, Dr. Grant.
Sounds interesting,
but actually—
It’s almost finished now, you know,
I’ve sent you some
 material about it. Did you get my material?
No, but we’re pretty far from—
Maybe it’ll come today. Look it over. The island’s just beautiful. It’s got
 everything. We’ve been in construction now thirty months. You can imagine. Big
 park. Opens in September next year. You really ought to go see it.
It sounds wonderful, but—
As a matter of fact,
I’m going to insist you see it, Dr. Grant. I
 know you’d find it right up your alley. You’d find it fascinating.
I’m in the middle of—
Say, I’ll tell you what,
I’m having some of the people who consulted for us go down there this weekend.
 Spend a few days and look it over. At our expense, of course. It’d be terrific if you’d
 give us your opinion.
I couldn’t possibly,
Oh, just for a weekend,
That’s all I’m talking about, Dr. Grant. I wouldn’t want to interrupt
 your work. I know how important that work is. Believe me, I know that. Never
 interrupt your work. But you could hop on down there this weekend, and be back
 on Monday.
No, I couldn’t,
I’ve just found a new skeleton and—
Yes, fine, but I still think you should come—
And we’ve just received some evidence for a very puzzling and remarkable find,
 which seems to be a living procompsognathid.
A what?
I didn’t quite get that. You said a
 living procompsognathid?
That’s right,
It’s a biological specimen, a partial fragment of an
 animal collected from Central America. A living animal.
You don’t say,
A living animal? How extraordinary.
Yes,
We think so, too. So, you see, this isn’t the time for me to be
 leaving—
Central America, did you say?
Yes.
Where in Central America is it from, do you know?
A beach called Cabo Blanco, I don’t know exactly where—
I see.
And when did this, ah, specimen arrive in
 your hands?
Just today.
Today, I see. Today. I see. Yes.
Ah, Dr. Grant. Have you told anybody
 about it yet?
No.
Good, that’s good. Well. Yes. I’ll tell you frankly, Dr. Grant, I’m having a little
 problem about this island. This EPA thing is coming at just the wrong time.
How’s that?
Well, we’ve had our problems and some delays… Let’s just say that I’m under a
 little pressure here, and I’d like you to look at this island for me. Give me your
 opinion. I’ll be paying you the usual weekend consultant rate of twenty thousand a
 day. That’d be sixty thousand for three days. And if you can spare Dr. Sattler,
 she’ll go at the same rate. We need a botanist. What do you say?
Well, Mr. Hammond, that much money would
 fully finance our expeditions for the next two summers.
Good, good,
I want this to be easy… Now, I’m sending the corporate jet to pick you
 up at that private airfield east of Choteau. You know the one I mean? It’s only
 about two hours’ drive from where you are. You be there at five p.m. tomorrow and
 I’ll be waiting for you. Take you right down. Can you and Dr. Sattler make that
 plane?
I guess we can.
Good. Pack lightly. You don’t need passports. I’m looking forward to it. See you
 tomorrow,
I understand, John,
And Grant agreed to come? Good,
 good… yes, that sounds fine to me. My congratulations, John.
We can’t trust Hammond any more. He’s under too much pressure. The EPA’s
 investigating him, he’s behind schedule on his Costa Rican resort, and the
 investors are getting nervous. There have been too many rumors of problems down
 there. Too many workmen have died. And now this business about a living
 procompsit-whatever on the mainland…
What does that mean?
Maybe nothing,
But Hamachi is one of our principal investors.
 I got a report last week from Hamachi’s representative in San Jose, the capital of
 Costa Rica. According to the report, some new kind of lizard is biting children on
 the coast.
New lizard?
Yes,
We can’t screw around with this. We’ve got to inspect that
 island right away. I’ve asked Hammond to arrange independent site inspections
 every week for the next three weeks.
And what does Hammond say?
He insists nothing is wrong on the island. Claims he has all these security
 precautions.
But you don’t believe him,
No,
I don’t.
Hammond’s a dreamer,
A potentially dangerous dreamer,
We should never have gotten
 involved. What is our financial position?
The firm,
owns five percent.
General or limited?
General.
We should never have done that.
It seemed wise at the time,
Hell, it was eight years ago. We took
 it in lieu of some fees. And, if you remember, Hammond’s plan was extremely
 speculative. He was really pushing the envelope. Nobody really thought he could
 pull it off.
But apparently he has,
In any case, I agree that an inspection is
 overdue. What about your site experts?
I’m starting with experts Hammond already hired as consultants, early in the
 project.
First group is a paleontologist, a
 paleobotanist, and a mathematician. They go down this weekend. I’ll go with
 them.
Will they tell you the truth?
I think so. None of them had much to do with the island, and one of them—the
 mathematician, Ian Malcolm—was openly hostile to the project from the start.
 Insisted it would never work, could never work.
And who else?
Just a technical person: the computer system analyst. Review the park’s
 computers and fix some bugs. He should be there by Friday morning.
Fine,
You’re making the arrangements?
Hammond asked to place the calls himself. I think he wants to pretend that
 he’s not in trouble, that it’s just a social invitation. Showing off his island.
All right,
But just make sure it happens. Stay on top of it. I want
 this Costa Rican situation resolved within a week.
Grant here.
Hi, Dr. Grant, this is Donald Gennaro. I’m the general counsel for InGen. We
 talked a few years back, I don’t know if you remember—
I remember,
Well,
I just got off the phone with John Hammond, who tells
 me the good news that you’re coming down to our island in Costa Rica…
Yes,
I guess we’re going down there tomorrow.
Well, I just want to extend my thanks to you for doing this on short notice.
 Everybody at InGen appreciates it. We’ve asked Ian Malcolm, who like you was one
 of the early consultants, to come down as well. He’s the mathematician at UT in
 Austin?
John Hammond mentioned that,
Well, good,
And I’ll be coming, too, as a matter of fact. By the
 way, this specimen you have found of a pro… procom… what is it?
Procompsognathus,
Yes. Do you have the specimen with you, Dr. Grant? The actual specimen?
No,
I’ve only seen an X ray. The specimen is in New York. A
 woman from Columbia University called me.
Well, I wonder if you could give me the details on that,
Then I
 can run down that specimen for Mr. Hammond, who’s very excited about it. I’m
 sure you want to see the actual specimen, too. Perhaps I can even get it delivered
 to the island while you’re all down there,
Well, that’s fine, Dr. Grant,
My regards to Dr. Sattler. I look forward to meeting you and him tomorrow.
This just came,
One of the kids brought it back from town. It’s from
 Hammond.
What the hell is this?
I don’t get it,
These are
 architectural plans.
These plans represent the confidential
 creations of InGen Inc. You must have signed document 112/4A or you risk
 prosecution.
Looks pretty paranoid to me,
Maybe there’s a reason,
Visitor 
The northern section was marked VISITOR AREA and it contained structures
 marked 
Arrivals,
Visitor 
Center/Administration,
Power/Desalinization/Support,
Hammond Res.,
Safari Lodge.
Looks like a resort, all right,
Is there an explanation for the codes?
Maybe they took it out,
I’m telling you,
Paranoid.
That’s odd,
Electrified fences at a resort?
Miles of them,
Electrified fences and moats, together. And usually
 with a road alongside them as well.
Just like a zoo,
You know,
some of these dimensions are enormous. Look at this.
 This concrete moat is thirty feet wide. That’s like a military fortification.
So are these buildings,
Back to work,
Fire!
I hate computers,
What happened now?
Lost the integrator input,
Just a minute.
We’re going to have to do this the old-fashioned way.
Aw, Alan.
Look,
I’ve got a plane to catch. And I want the fossil protected
 before I go.
How much longer?
We got it now, Alan. It’s not bad.
It looks kind of distorted,
But I don’t think it’s the
 computer.
No,
It’s just time. Lots and lots of time.
Doesn’t look very fearsome,
He wasn’t,
At least, not until he grew up.
We’re running out of time,
How did the baby die?
I doubt we’ll know,
Infant mortality in the wild is high. In
 African parks, it runs seventy percent among some carnivores. It could have been
 anything—disease, separation from the group, anything. Or even attack by an
adult. We know these animals hunted in packs, but we don’t know anything about
 their social behavior in a group.
We’ve got to go,
if we’re going to get to Choteau by five.
You know, Mr. Gennaro,
when you forget to pack it makes
 me think you don’t really want to go on this trip.
Maybe you’re right,
I’m missing my kid’s birthday.
Well, I did the best I could on short notice,
There’s running
 shoes your size, and khaki shorts and shirts, and a shaving kit. A pair of jeans
 and a sweatshirt if it gets cold. The car is downstairs to take you to the airport.
 You have to leave now to make the flight.
Have a good trip,
But let’s be very clear about one thing. I don’t
 know how bad this situation actually is, Donald. But if there’s a problem on that
 island, burn it to the ground.
Jesus, Dan… We’re talking about a big investment.
Don’t hesitate. Don’t think about it. Just do it. Hear me?
I hear you,
But Hammond—
Screw Hammond,
My boy, my boy,
How have you been, my boy?
Very well, sir,
You never call me any more,
I’ve missed you,
 Donald. How is your lovely wife?
She’s fine. Elizabeth’s fine. We have a little girl now.
Wonderful, wonderful. Children are such a delight. She’d get a kick out of our
 new park in Costa Rica.
consumer biologicals.
Pachyderm Portfolio
It’s too bad you didn’t bring your family with you, Donald,
It’s my daughter’s birthday. Twenty kids already scheduled.
 The cake and the clown. You know how it is.
Oh, I understand,
Kids set their hearts on things.
Anyway, is the park ready for visitors?
Well, not officially,
But the hotel is built, so there is a place
 to stay…
And the animals?
Of course, the animals are all there. All in their spaces.
I remember in the original proposal you were hoping for a total
 of twelve…
Oh, we’re far beyond that. We have two hundred and thirty-eight animals,
 Donald.
Two hundred and thirty-eight?
You can’t imagine it. We
 have herds of them.
Two hundred and thirty-eight… How many species?
Fifteen different species, Donald.
That’s incredible,
That’s fantastic. And what about all the other
 things you wanted? The facilities? The computers?
All of it, all of it,
Everything on that island is state-of-the-art.
 You’ll see for yourself, Donald. It’s perfectly wonderful. That’s why
 this… concern… is so misplaced. There’s absolutely no problem with the island.
Then there should be absolutely no problem with an inspection.
And there isn’t,
But it slows things down. Everything has to
 stop for the official visit…
You’ve had delays anyway. You’ve postponed the opening.
Oh, that.
It was bound to happen. Bound to happen.
Why?
Well, Donald,
to explain that, you have to go back to the
 initial concept of the resort. The concept of the most advanced amusement park in
 the world, combining the latest electronic and biological technologies. I’m not
 talking about rides. Everybody has rides. Coney Island has rides. And these days
 everybody has animatronic environments. The haunted house, the pirate den, the
 wild west, the earthquake—everyone has those things. So we set out to make
 biological attractions. Living attractions. Attractions so astonishing they would
 capture the imagination of the entire world.
And we can never forget the
 ultimate object of the project in Costa Rica—to make money,
Lots and lots of money.
I remember,
And the secret to making money in a park,
is to limit your
 personnel costs. The food handlers, ticket takers, cleanup crews, repair teams. To
 make a park that runs with minimal staff. That was why we invested in all the
 computer technology—we automated wherever we could.
I remember…
But the plain fact is,
when you put together all the animals
 and all the computer systems, you run into snags. Who ever got a major computer
 system up and running on schedule? Nobody I know.
So you’ve just had normal start-up delays?
Yes, that’s right,
Normal delays.
I heard there were accidents during construction,
Some
 workmen died…
Yes, there were several accidents,
And a total of three deaths.
 Two workers died building the cliff road. One other died as a result of an earth
mover accident in January. But we haven’t had any accidents for months now.
Donald,
believe me when I tell
 you that everything on the island is going forward as planned. Everything on that
 island is perfectly fine.
Seat belts, please. We’re landing in
 Choteau.
I hate to wait on the money men,
Goes with the job.
Dr. Grant and Dr. Sattler,
It’s good of you to join us. Allow
 me to introduce my associate, Donald Gennaro.
You’re a woman.
These things happen,
You know, of course, what Dr. Grant and Dr.
 Sattler do. They are paleontologists. They dig up dinosaurs.
Take your seats, please,
You’ll have to excuse us,
but we are in a bit of a rush.
 Donald thinks it’s important we get right down there.
And how long will we be in Costa Rica?
Well, that really depends,
We have a few things to clear up.
Take my word for it,
We’ll be down there no
 more than forty-eight hours.
This island of yours that we’re going to—I haven’t
 heard anything about it before. Is it some kind of secret?
In a way,
We have been very, very careful about making sure
 nobody knows about it, until the day we finally open that island to a surprised
 and delighted public.
What are we waiting for?
One more,
We need one more.
You need a quorum?
Yes,
We do.
You’ll have to get their agreement for this one,
 Lew,
reverse engineering
What is the
 biological equivalent of a Sony Walkman?
consumer biologicals
Gentlemen,
we’re here tonight to consider a target of opportunity:
 InGen.
Despite all these clues,
we still had no idea where InGen might
 be going. The company seemed obviously focused on animals; and they had hired
 researchers with an interest in the past—paleobiologists, DNA phylogeneticists,
 and so on.
 “Then, in 1987, InGen bought an obscure company called Milli-pore Plastic
 Products in Nashville, Tennessee. This was an agribusiness company that had
 recently patented a new plastic with the characteristics of an avian eggshell. This
 plastic could be shaped into an egg and used to grow chick embryos. Starting the
 following year, InGen took the entire output of this millipore plastic for its own
 use.
Dr. Dodgson, this is all very interesting—
At the same time,
construction was begun on Isla
 Nublar. This involved massive earthworks, including a shallow lake two miles long,
 in the center of the island. Plans for resort faculties were let out with a high degree
 of confidentiality, but it appears that InGen has built a private zoo of large
 dimensions on the island.
Dr. Dodgson. So what?
It’s not an ordinary zoo,
This zoo is unique in the world. It
 seems that InGen has done something quite extraordinary. They have managed to
 clone extinct animals from the past.
What animals?
Animals that hatch from eggs, and that require a lot of room in a zoo.
What animals?
Dinosaurs,
They are cloning dinosaurs.
What they have done,
is build the greatest single tourist
 attraction in the history of the world. As you know, zoos are extremely popular.
 Last year, more Americans visited zoos than all professional baseball and football
 games combined. And the Japanese love zoos—there are fifty zoos in Japan, and
 more being built. And for this zoo, InGen can charge whatever they want. Two
 thousand dollars a day, ten thousand dollars a day… And then there is the
 merchandising. The picture books, T-shirts, video games, caps, stuffed toys, comic
 books, and pets.
Pets?
Of course. If InGen can make full-size dinosaurs, they can also make pygmy
 dinosaurs as household pets. What child won’t want a little dinosaur as a pet? A
 little patented animal for their very own. InGen will sell millions of them. And
 InGen will engineer them so that these pet dinosaurs can only eat InGen pet
 food…
Jesus,
Exactly,
The zoo is the centerpiece of an enormous enterprise.
You said these dinosaurs will be patented?
Yes. Genetically engineered animals can now be patented. The Supreme Court
 ruled on that in favor of Harvard in 1987. InGen will own its dinosaurs, and no
 one else can legally make them.
What prevents us from creating our own dinosaurs?
Nothing, except that they have a five-year start. It’ll be almost impossible to
 catch up before the end of the century.
Of course, if we could obtain examples of their dinosaurs, we could
 reverse engineer them and make our own, with enough modifications in the DNA
 to evade their patents.
Can we obtain examples of their dinosaurs?
I believe we can, yes.
There wouldn’t be anything illegal about it…
Oh no,
Nothing illegal. I’m talking about a legitimate
 source of their DNA. A disgruntled employee, or some trash improperly disposed
 of, something like that.
Do you have a legitimate source, Dr. Dodgson?
I do,
But I’m afraid there is some urgency to the decision,
 because InGen is experiencing a small crisis, and my source will have to act within
 the next twenty-four hours.
I don’t see the need for a formal resolution on this,
Just a
 sense of the room, as to whether you feel I should proceed…
Thank you for coming, gentlemen,
I’ll take it from here.
You’re late, pal,
What is this supposed to be, a disguise?
You never know,
ice-minus,
Let’s get down to it,
I’ve got ten minutes before my flight.
You want to go over it again?
Hell no, Dr. Dodgson,
I want to see the damn money.
That’s all of it?
That’s half of it. Seven hundred fifty thousand dollars.
Okay, Fine.
That’s fine, Dr.
 Dodgson.
That’s for all fifteen species, you
 remember.
I remember. Fifteen species, frozen embryos. And how am I going to transport
 them?
That’s it?
That’s it.
They may check my luggage…
Press the top,
Not bad.
Not bad.
The can’s a little heavier than usual, is all.
How much coolant gas is inside?
Enough for thirty-six hours. The embryos have to be back in San José by
 then.
That’s up to your guy in the boat,
Better make sure he has a
 portable cooler on board.
I’ll do that,
And let’s just review the bidding…
The deal is the same,
Fifty thousand on delivery of each
 embryo. If they’re viable, an additional fifty thousand each.
That’s fine. Just make sure you have the boat waiting at the east dock of the
 island, Friday night. Not the north dock, where the big supply boats arrive. The
 east dock. It’s a small utility dock. You got that?
I got it,
When will you be back in San José?
Probably Sunday.
You’re sure you know how to work the—
I know,
Believe me, I know.
Also,
we think the island maintains constant radio contact
 with InGen corporate headquarters in California, so—
Look, I’ve got it covered,
Just relax, and get the money ready I
 want it all Sunday morning, in San José airport, in cash.
It’ll be waiting for you,
Don’t worry.
Ah, Dr. Malcolm,
Hello, John. Yes, I am afraid your old nemesis is here.
Ian Malcolm, how do you
 do? I do maths.
how the
 real world works.
a deplorable excess of personality.
Diet Coke, shaken not stirred.
Isn’t it a little warm
 for black?
You’re extremely pretty, Dr. Sattler,
I could look at your legs all day.
 But no, as a matter of fact, black is an excellent color for heat. If you remember
 your black-body radiation, black is actually best in heat. Efficient radiation. In any
 case, I wear only two colors, black and gray.
These colors are appropriate for any occasion,
and they
 go well together, should I mistakenly put on a pair of gray socks with my black
 trousers.
But don’t you find it boring to wear only two colors?
Not at all. I find it liberating. I believe my life has value, and I don’t want to
 waste it thinking about clothing,
I don’t want to think about what I
 will wear in the morning. Truly, can you imagine anything more boring than
 fashion? Professional sports, perhaps. Grown men swatting little balls, while the
 rest of the world pays money to applaud. But, on the whole, I find fashion even
 more tedious than sports.
Dr. Malcolm,
is a man of strong opinions.
And mad as a hatter,
But you must admit, these are
 nontrivial issues. We live in a world of frightful givens. It is given that you will
 behave like this, given that you will care about that. No one thinks about the
 givens. Isn’t it amazing? In the information society, nobody thinks. We expected to
 banish paper, but we actually banished thought.
You invited him.
And a lucky thing, too,
Because it sounds as if you have a
 serious problem.
We have no problem,
I always maintained this island would be unworkable,
I
 predicted it from the beginning.
And I
 trust by now we all know what the eventual outcome is going to be. You’re going to
 have to shut the thing down.
Shut it down!
This is ridiculous.
I’ve brought copies of
 my original paper for you to look at,
The original consultancy paper I did
 for InGen. The mathematics are a bit sticky, but I can walk you through it. Are
 you leaving now?
I have some phone calls to make,
Well, it’s a long flight,
At least my paper will give
 you something to do.
Your paper concludes that Hammond’s island is bound to fail?
Correct.
Because of chaos theory?
Correct. To be more precise, because of the behavior of the system in phase
 space.
Can you explain this in English?
Surely,
Let’s see where we have to start. You know what a
 nonlinear equation is?
No.
Strange attractors?
No.
All right,
Let’s go back to the beginning.
Physics has had great success at describing certain kinds of behavior:
 planets in orbit, spacecraft going to the moon, pendulums and springs and rolling
 balls, that sort of thing. The regular movement of objects. These are described by
 what are called linear equations, and mathematicians can solve those equations
 easily. We’ve been doing it for hundreds of years.
Okay,
But there is another kind of behavior, which physics handles badly. For
 example, anything to do with turbulence. Water coming out of a spout. Air moving
 over an airplane wing. Weather. Blood flowing through the heart. Turbulent events
 are described by nonlinear equations. They’re hard to solve—in fact, they’re
 usually impossible to solve. So physics has never understood this whole class of
 events. Until about ten years ago. The new theory that describes them is called
 chaos theory.
 “Chaos theory originally grew out of attempts to make computer models of
 weather in the 1960s. Weather is a big complicated system, namely the earth’s
 atmosphere as it interacts with the land and the sun. The behavior of this big
 complicated system always defied understanding. So naturally we couldn’t predict
 weather. But what the early researchers learned from computer models was that,
 even if you could understand it, you still couldn’t predict it. Weather prediction is
 absolutely impossible. The reason is that the behavior of the system is sensitively
 dependent on initial conditions.
You lost me,
If I use a cannon to fire a shell of a certain weight, at a certain speed, and a
 certain angle of inclination—and if I then fire a second shell with almost the same
 weight, speed, and angle—what will happen?
The two shells will land at almost the same spot.
Right,
That’s linear dynamics.
Okay.
But if I have a weather system that I start up with a certain temperature and a
 certain wind speed and a certain humidity—and if I then repeat it with almost the
 same temperature, wind, and humidity—the second system will not behave almost
 the same. It’ll wander off and rapidly will become very different from the first.
 Thunderstorms instead of sunshine. That’s nonlinear dynamics. They are sensitive
 to initial conditions: tiny differences become amplified.
I think I see,
The shorthand is the ‘butterfly effect.’ A butterfly flaps its wings in Peking, and
 weather in New York is different.
So chaos is all just random and unpredictable?
Is that it?
No,
We actually find hidden regularities within the complex
 variety of a system’s behavior. That’s why chaos has now become a very broad
 theory that’s used to study everything from the stock market, to rioting crowds, to
 brain waves during epilepsy. Any sort of complex system where there is confusion
 and unpredictability. We can find an underlying order. Okay?
Okay,
But what is this underlying order?
It’s essentially characterized by the movement of the system within phase
 space,
Jesus,
All I want to know is why you think Hammond’s island
 can’t work.
I understand,
I’ll get there. Chaos theory says two things. First,
 that complex systems like weather have an underlying order. Second, the reverse
 of that—that simple systems can produce complex behavior. For example, pool
 balls. You hit a pool ball, and it starts to carom off the sides of the table. In theory,
 that’s a fairly simple system, almost a Newtonian system. Since you can know the
 force imparted to the ball, and the mass of the ball, and you can calculate the
 angles at which it will strike the walls, you can predict the future behavior of the
 ball. In theory, you could predict the behavior of the ball far into the future, as it
 keeps bouncing from side to side. You could predict where it will end up three
 hours from now, in theory.
Okay.
But in fact,
it turns out you can’t predict more than a few
 seconds into the future. Because almost immediately very small effects—
 imperfections in the surface of the ball, tiny indentations in the wood of the
 table—start to make a difference. And it doesn’t take long before they overpower
 your careful calculations. So it turns out that this simple system of a pool ball on
 a table has unpredictable behavior.
Okay.
And Hammond’s project,
is another apparently simple
 system—animals within a zoo environment—that will eventually show
 unpredictable behavior.
You know this because of …
Theory,
But hadn’t you better see the island, to see what he’s actually done?
No. That is quite unnecessary. The details don’t matter. Theory tells me that
 the island will quickly proceed to behave in unpredictable fashion.
And you’re confident of your theory.
Oh, yes,
Totally confident.
There is a
 problem with that island. It is an accident waiting to happen.
It’s about a forty-minute trip,
Costa Rica,
has better population control
 than other countries in Central America. But, even so, the land is badly
 deforested. Most of this is within the last ten years.
Bahía Anasco,
Fishing village.
Up the coast
 there, you see the Cabo Blanco preserve. They have beautiful beaches.
Just a few minutes now,
and we should be seeing Isla
 Nublar.
Its volcanic origins
 can be seen all over the island,
There are steam vents in many
 places, and the ground is often hot underfoot. Because of this, and also because of
 prevailing currents, Isla Nublar lies in a foggy area. As we get there you will see—
 ah, there we are.
Christ, it looks like Alcatraz,
Much larger, of course,
Eight miles long and three miles wide
 at the widest point, in total some twenty-two square miles. Making it the largest
 private animal preserve in North America.
It’s not usually this thick,
Unfortunately,
we have to land on the island. I don’t like to do
 it, because it disturbs the animals. And it’s sometimes a bit thrilling—
Starting our descent now. Hang on,
 folks.
How the hell is he doing this?
Jesus,
We have to come down fast, that way,
because of the wind
 shear. There is often bad wind shear on this peak, and… well, we’re safe.
Hi, I’m Ed Regis. Welcome to
 Isla Nublar, everybody. And watch your step, please.
That’s right,
Primary ecology is deciduous rain forest. Rather
 different from the vegetation on the mainland, which is more classical rain forest.
 But this is a microclimate that only occurs at elevation, on the slopes of the
 northern hills. The majority of the island is tropical.
My God,
My God.
My God,
brontosaurs.
What is it?
Is something wrong?
I take it they’re not animatronic,
They’re very lifelike.
Yes, they certainly are,
Well, they should be, shouldn’t they?
That’s their call,
Welcoming us to the island.
You probably want to know what happens next,
We’ve scheduled a complete tour of the facilities for
 you, and a trip to see the dinosaurs in the park later this afternoon. I’ll be joining
 you for dinner, and will answer any remaining questions you may have then. Now,
 if you’ll go with Mr. Regis…
Welcome to Jurassic Park.
Details emerge more clearly as the fractal curve is re-drawn.
They look pretty good.
Yes,
I want to see them up close. I want to lift up their toe pads
 and inspect their claws and feel their skin and open their jaws and have a look at
 their teeth. Until then I don’t know for sure. But yes, they look good.
I suppose it changes your field a bit,
It changes everything,
You don’t seem upset,
It’s been discussed, in the field. Many people imagined it
 was coming. But not so soon.
Story of our species,
Everybody knows it’s coming,
 but not so soon.
My only question is, where’d they get the DNA?
You can’t reproduce a real dinosaur, because you can’t get real
 dinosaur DNA.
Unless there’s a way we haven’t thought of,
Like what?
I don’t know,
Isn’t this extraordinary?
Especially on a misty day, these plants
 really contribute to the prehistoric atmosphere. These are authentic Jurassic
 ferns, of course.
Isn’t it just wonderful?
If you look up ahead, you’ll see
 our Safari Lodge.
That’s where you’ll all be staying here in Jurassic Park.
By the way, those ferns are poison,
But did
 you notice anything about the rooms, Alan?
They changed the plans.
I think so, yes.
The windows are small,
And the glass is tempered, set in a steel frame. The doors are steel-clad.
 That shouldn’t be necessary. And did you see the fence when we came in?
I don’t think the fence was in the plans, either,
It looks to me like
 they’ve turned this place into a fortress.
We’ll be sure to ask why,
The tour starts
 in twenty minutes.
We’re about to tour the facilities,
I’m sure Mr. Hammond and
 his staff will show everything in the best light. Before we go, I wanted to review
 why we are here, and what I need to decide before we leave. Basically, as you all
 realize by now, this is an island in which genetically engineered dinosaurs have
 been allowed to move in a natural park-like setting, forming a tourist attraction.
 The attraction isn’t open to tourists yet, but it will be in a year.
 “Now, my question for you is a simple one. Is this island safe? Is it safe for
 visitors, and is it safely containing the dinosaurs?
There are two pieces of evidence which
 we have to deal with. First of all, there is Dr. Grant’s identification of a previously
 unknown dinosaur on the Costa Rican mainland. This dinosaur is known only
 from a partial fragment. It was found in July of this year, after it supposedly bit an
 American girl on a beach. Dr. Grant can tell you more later. I’ve asked for the
 original fragment, which is in a lab in New York, to be flown here so that we can
 inspect it directly. Meanwhile, there is a second piece of evidence.
 “Costa Rica has an excellent medical service, and it tracks all kinds of data.
 Beginning in March, there were reports of lizards biting infants in their cribs—and
 also, I might add, biting old people who were sleeping soundly. These lizard bites
 were sporadically reported in coastal villages from Ismaloya to Punta Arenas. After
 March, lizard bites were no longer reported. However, I have this graph from the
 Public Health Service in San José of infant mortality in the towns of the west coast
 earlier this year.
I direct your attention to two features of this graph,
First,
 infant mortality is low in the months of January and February, then spikes in
 March, then it’s low again in April. But from May onward, it is high, right through
 July, the month the American girl was bitten. The Public Health Service feels that
 something is now affecting infant mortality, and it is not being reported by the
 workers in the coastal villages. The second feature is the puzzling biweekly
 spiking, which seems to suggest some kind of alternating phenomenon is at work.
All right,
That’s the evidence I want
 explained. Now, are there any—
We can save ourselves a great deal of trouble,
I’ll explain it for
 you now.
You will?
Yes,
First of all, animals have very likely gotten off the island.
Oh balls,
And second, the graph from the Public Health Service is almost certainly
 unrelated to any animals that have escaped.
How do you know that?
You’ll notice that the graph alternates between high and low spikes,
That is characteristic of many complex systems. For example, water
 dripping from a tap. If you turn on the faucet just a little, you’ll get a constant
 drip, drip, drip. But if you open it a little more, so that there’s a bit of turbulence
 in the flow, then you’ll get alternating large and small drops. Drip drip … Drip
 drip … Like that. You can try it yourself. Turbulence produces alternation—it’s a
 signature. And you will get an alternating graph like this for the spread of any new
 illness in a community.
But why do you say it isn’t caused by escaped dinosaurs?
Because it is a nonlinear signature,
You’d need hundreds of
 escaped dinosaurs to cause it. And I don’t think hundreds of dinosaurs have
 escaped. So I conclude that some other phenomenon, such as a new variety of flu,
 is causing the fluctuations you see in the graph.
But you think that dinosaurs have escaped?
Probably, yes.
Why?
Because of what you are attempting here. Look, this island is an attempt to re
create a natural environment from the past. To make an isolated world where
 extinct creatures roam freely. Correct?
Yes.
But from my point of view, such an undertaking is impossible. The
 mathematics are so self-evident that they don’t need to be calculated. It’s rather
 like my asking you whether, on a billion dollars in income, you had to pay tax. You
 wouldn’t need to pull out your calculator to check. You’d know tax was owed. And,
 similarly, I know overwhelmingly that one cannot successfully duplicate nature in
 this way, or hope to isolate it.
Why not? After all, there are zoos…
Zoos don’t re-create nature,
Let’s be clear. Zoos take the nature
 that already exists and modify it very slightly, to create holding pens for animals.
 Even those minimal modifications often fail. The animals escape with regularity.
 But a zoo is not a model for this park. This park is attempting something far more
 ambitious than that. Something much more akin to making a space station on
 earth.
I don’t understand.
Well, it’s very simple. Except for the air, which flows freely, everything about
 this park is meant to be isolated. Nothing gets in, nothing out. The animals kept
 here are never to mix with the greater ecosystems of earth. They are never to
 escape.
And they never have,
Such isolation is impossible,
It simply cannot be done.
It can. It’s done all the time.
I beg your pardon,
But you don’t know what you are talking
 about.
You arrogant little snot,
Gentlemen, gentlemen,
I’m sorry,
but the point remains. What we call ‘nature’ is in fact
 a complex system of far greater subtlety than we are willing to accept. We make a
 simplified image of nature and then we botch it up. I’m no environmentalist, but
 you have to understand what you don’t understand. How many times must the
 point be made? How many times must we see the evidence? We build the Aswan
 Dam and claim it is going to revitalize the country. Instead, it destroys the fertile
 Nile Delta, produces parasitic infestation, and wrecks the Egyptian economy. We
 build the—
Excuse me,
But I think I hear the helicopter. That’s probably
 the sample for Dr. Grant to look at.
You did what? You invited who?
Take it easy,
Are you out of your goddamned mind?
Now, look here,
I think we have to get
 something clear—
No,
No, you get something clear. This is not a social outing.
 This is not a weekend excursion—
This is my island,
and I can invite whomever I want.
This is a serious investigation of your island because your investors are
 concerned that it’s out of control. We think this is a very dangerous place, and—
You’re not going to shut me down, Donald—
I will if I have to—
This is a safe place,
no matter what that damn
 mathematician is saying—
It’s not—
And I’ll demonstrate its safety—
And I want you to put them right back on that helicopter,
Can’t,
It’s already leaving.
God damn it,
don’t you see you’re needlessly risking—
Ah ah,
Let’s continue this later. I don’t want to upset the
 children.
Christ.
Now, take it easy,
Their parents are getting a divorce, and I
 want them to have a fun weekend here.
Hi, Grandpa,
We’re here.
Go on, Lex.
Go on yourself, Timmy.
Don’t be a worm,
I’ll introduce you to everybody,
 and then we can take the tour.
I have to go,
I’ll just introduce you first,
No, I have to go.
Your mouth is open,
I know him.
Oh sure. You just met him.
No,
I have his book.
What book is that, Tim?
Lost World of the Dinosaurs,
Daddy says Tim has dinosaurs on the brain,
Dinosaurs on the brain?
Well, as a matter of fact, I
 have that same problem.
Dad says dinosaurs are really stupid,
He says Tim should get out in
 the air and play more sports.
I thought you had to go,
In a minute,
I thought you were in such a rush.
I’m the one who would know, don’t you think, Timothy?
Tell you what,
Why don’t we all just head on over to the visitor
 center, and we can begin our tour.
I could kill you for this,
How old are you, Tim?
Eleven.
And how long have you been interested in dinosaurs?
A while now,
We go to museums sometimes, when I can talk my family into it. My
 father.
Your father’s not especially interested?
That’s a big one.
No, Dad, that’s a medium-size one, a camptosaurus.
Oh, I don’t know. Looks pretty big to me.
It’s not even full-grown, Dad.
What is it, Jurassic?
Jeez. No. Cretaceous.
Cretaceous? What’s the difference between Cretaceous and Jurassic?
Only about a hundred million years,
Cretaceous is older?
No, Dad, Jurassic is older.
Well,
it looks pretty damn big to me.
What are you
 looking at?
I’m counting the vertebrae,
The vertebrae?
In the backbone.
I know what vertebrae are,
Why are you counting them?
I think they’re wrong. Tyrannosaurs should only have thirty-seven vertebrae in
 the tail. This has more.
You mean to tell me,
that the Museum of Natural History has
 a skeleton that’s wrong? I can’t believe that.
It’s wrong,
What did you do now?
I didn’t do anything,
I just said the dinosaur is wrong, that’s all.
How’d you know that?
I read it,
That’s pretty amazing, son,
You know how many vertebrae belong in that tail. I’ve never
 seen anything like it. You really do have dinosaurs on the brain.
Was it 5027?
I’m sorry?
The tyrannosaurus at the museum. Was it 5027?
Yes,
How’d you know?
They’ve been talking about fixing it for years. But now it may
 never happen.
Why is that?
Because of what is taking place here,
on your grandfather’s
 island.
My
 mom said it was just a resort, you know, with swimming and tennis.
Not exactly,
I’ll explain as we walk along.
All right, folks, let’s begin our tour on the second floor.
Never mind the signs, they’re just up for legal reasons. I can assure you
 everything is perfectly safe.
You may have noticed that we have a minimum of personnel on the island. We
 can run this resort with a total of twenty people. Of course, we’ll have more when
 we have guests here, but at the moment there’s only twenty. Here’s our control
 room. The entire park is controlled from here.
The man on the left is our chief engineer, John Arnold
and next
 to him, our park warden, Mr. Robert Muldoon, the famous white hunter from
 Nairobi.
I’m sure you want to see this room,
but first,
 let’s see how we obtain dinosaur DNA.
Dr. Wu is our chief
 geneticist. I’ll let him explain what we do here.
At least I’ll try,
Genetics is a bit complicated. But
 you’re probably wondering where our dinosaur DNA comes from.
It crossed my mind,
As a matter of fact,
there are two possible sources. Using the Loy
 antibody extraction technique, we can sometimes get DNA directly from dinosaur
 bones.
What kind of a yield?
Well, most soluble protein is leached out during fossilization, but twenty
 percent of the proteins are still recoverable by grinding up the bones and using
 Loy’s procedure. Dr. Loy himself has used it to obtain proteins from extinct
 Australian marsupials, as well as blood cells from ancient human remains. His
 technique is so refined it can work with a mere fifty nanograms of material. That’s
 fifty-billionths of a gram.
And you’ve adapted his technique here?
Only as a backup,
As you can imagine, a twenty percent yield is
 insufficient for our work. We need the entire dinosaur DNA strand in order to
 clone. And we get it here.
From amber—the
 fossilized resin of prehistoric tree sap.
That’s really quite clever,
I still don’t understand,
Tree sap,
often flows over insects and traps them. The insects
 are then perfectly preserved within the fossil. One finds all kinds of insects in
 amber—including biting insects that have sucked blood from larger animals.
Sucked the blood,
You mean sucked the
 blood of dinosaurs…
Hopefully, yes.
And then the insects are preserved in amber…
l’ll be
 damned—that just might work.
I assure you, it does work,
If this insect has any foreign blood cells, we may be able to extract them, and
 obtain paleo-DNA, the DNA of an extinct creature. We won’t know for sure, of
 course, until we extract whatever is in there, replicate it, and test it. That is what
 we have been doing for five years now. It has been a long, slow process—but it has
 paid off.
 “Actually, dinosaur DNA is somewhat easier to extract by this process than
 mammalian DNA. The reason is that mammalian red cells have no nuclei, and
 thus no DNA in their red cells. To clone a mammal, you must find a white cell,
 which is much rarer than red cells. But dinosaurs had nucleated red cells, as do
 modern birds. It is one of the many indications we have that dinosaurs aren’t
 really reptiles at all. They are big leathery birds.
I see Mr. Nedry has spotted the next phase of our work,
How we
 identify the DNA we have extracted. For that, we use powerful computers.
This is our high-tech
 laundromat,
The boxes along the walls are all Hamachi-Hood
 automated gene sequencers. They are being run, at very high speed, by the Cray
 XMP supercomputers, which are the towers in the center of the room. In essence,
 you are standing in the middle of an incredibly powerful genetics factory.
Here you see the actual structure of a small fragment of dinosaur DNA,
Notice the sequence is made up of four basic compounds—adenine,
 thymine, guanine, and cytosine. This amount of DNA probably contains
 instructions to make a single protein—say, a hormone or an enzyme. The full DNA
 molecule contains three billion of these bases. If we looked at a screen like this
 once a second, for eight hours a day, it’d still take more than two years to look at
 the entire DNA strand. It’s that big.
This is a typical example, because you see the DNA
 has an error, down here in line 1201. Much of the DNA we extract is fragmented or
 incomplete. So the first thing we have to do is repair it—or rather, the computer
 has to. It’ll cut the DNA, using what are called restriction enzymes. The computer
 will select a variety of enzymes that might do the job.
Here is the same section of DNA, with the points of the restriction enzymes
 located. As you can see in line 1201, two enzymes will cut on either side of the
 damaged point. Ordinarily we let the computers decide which to use. But we also
 need to know what base pairs we should insert to repair the injury. For that, we
 have to align various cut fragments, like so.
Now we are finding a fragment of DNA that overlaps the injury area, and will
 tell us what is missing. And you can see we can find it, and go ahead and make
 the repair. The dark bars you see are restriction fragments—small sections of
 dinosaur DNA, broken by enzymes and then analyzed. The computer is now
 recombining them, by searching for overlapping sections of code. It’s a little bit like
 putting a puzzle together. The computer can do it very rapidly.
And here is the revised DNA strand, repaired by the computer. The operation
 you’ve witnessed would have taken months in a conventional lab, but we can do it
 in seconds.
Then are you working with the entire DNA strand?
Oh no,
That’s impossible. We’ve come a long way from the sixties,
 when it took a whole laboratory four years to decode a screen like this. Now the
 computers can do it in a couple of hours. But, even so, the DNA molecule is too
 big. We look only at the sections of the strand that differ from animal to animal, or
from contemporary DNA. Only a few percent of the nucleotides differ from one
 species to the next. That’s what we analyze, and it’s still a big job.
What kind of a database has three billion records,
 Barney?
A mistake,
They put in an extra zero or two.
It’s not a mistake. I checked. It’s what they want.
But that’s crazy,
It’s not workable. Even if you had the fastest
 processors and blindingly fast algorithms, a search would still take days. Maybe
 weeks.
Yeah,
I know. Fortunately I’m not being asked to do algorithms.
 I’m just being asked to reserve storage and memory for the overall system. But
 still… what could the database be for?
You operating under an ND?
Yes,
Can you tell me anything?
It’s a bioengineering firm.
Bioengineering,
Well, there’s the obvious…
Which is?
A DNA molecule.
Oh, come on,
Nobody could be analyzing a DNA molecule.
This is a private
 company,
With three billion records,
I don’t know what else it could be.
 Maybe they’re being optimistic designing their system.
Very optimistic,
Or maybe they’re just analyzing DNA fragments, but they’ve got RAM-intensive
 algorithms.
You know who did their algorithms?
No,
This company is very secretive.
Well, my guess is they’re doing something with DNA,
What’s the
 system?
Multi-XMP.
Multi-XMP? You mean more than one Cray? Wow.
Can you tell me anything else?
Sorry,
I can’t.
his
And once the computer has
 analyzed the DNA, how do you know what animal it encodes?
We have two procedures,
The first is phylogenetic mapping. DNA
 evolves over time, like everything else in an organism—hands or feet or any other
 physical attribute. So we can take an unknown piece of DNA and determine
 roughly, by computer, where it fits in the evolutionary sequence. It’s time
consuming, but it can be done.
And the other way?
Just grow it and find out what it is,
That’s what we
 usually do. I’ll show you how that’s accomplished.
Helotoxins,
 colchicinoids, beta-alkaloids,
Kill any living animal within a second or two.
It’s a little warm and damp in here,
We keep it at ninety-nine degrees Fahrenheit and a relative humidity
of one hundred percent. We also run a higher O2 concentration. It’s up to thirty
three percent.
Jurassic atmosphere,
Yes. At least we presume so. If any of you feel faint, just tell me.
Just a reminder: don’t touch anything in this room. Some of the eggs are
 permeable to skin oils. And watch your heads. The sensors are always moving.
Reptile eggs contain large amounts of yolk but no water at all. The embryos
 must extract water from the surrounding environment. Hence the mist.
In this hatchery, we have produced more than a dozen crops of extractions,
 giving us a total of two hundred thirty-eight live animals. Our survival rate is
 somewhere around point four percent, and we naturally want to improve that. But
 by computer analysis we’re working with something like five hundred variables:
 one hundred and twenty environmental, another two hundred intra-egg, and the
 rest from the genetic material itself. Our eggs are plastic. The embryos are
 mechanically inserted, and then hatched here.
And how long to grow?
Dinosaurs mature rapidly, attaining full size in two to four years. So we now
 have a number of adult specimens in the park.
What do the numbers mean?
Those codes,
identify the various batch extractions of DNA. The first
 four letters identify the animals being grown. Over there, that TRIC means
 Triceratops. And the STEG means Stegosaurus, and so on.
And this table here?
Presumed Coelu.
That’s a new batch of DNA,
We don’t know exactly what will grow
 out. The first time an extraction is done, we don’t know for sure what the animal
 is. You can see it’s marked Presumed Coelu, so it is likely to be a coelurosaurus. A
 small herbivore, if I remember. It’s hard for me to keep track of the names. There
 are something like three hundred genera of dinosaurs known so far.
Three hundred and forty-seven,
Is anything hatching now?
Not at the moment. The incubation period varies with each animal, but in
 general it runs about two months. We try to stagger hatchings, to make less work
 for the nursery staff. You can imagine how it is when we have a hundred and fifty
animals born within a few days—though of course most don’t survive. Actually,
 these X’s are due any day now. Any other questions? No? Then we’ll go to the
 nursery, where the newborns are.
What’ve you got here today, Kathy?
Not much,
Just a baby raptor.
Let’s have a look.
It looks like
 a lizard.
Velociraptor,
Velociraptor mongoliensis,
A predator. This one’s only six
 weeks old.
I just excavated a raptor,
Hey!
They can jump,
The babies can jump. So can the adults, as a matter
 of fact.
Will he hurt me?
No. She’s friendly.
Are you sure about that?
Oh, quite sure,
At least until she grows a little older. But, in any
 case, the babies don’t have any teeth, even egg teeth.
Egg teeth?
Most dinosaurs are born with egg teeth—little horns on the tip of the nose, like
 rhino horns, to help them break out of the eggs. But raptors aren’t. They poke a
 hole in the eggs with their pointed snouts, and then the nursery staff has to help
 them out.
You have to help them out,
What happens in
 the wild?
In the wild?
When they breed in the wild,
When they make a nest.
Oh, they can’t do that,
None of our animals is capable of breeding.
 That’s why we have this nursery. It’s the only way to replace stock in Jurassic
 Park.
Why can’t the animals breed?
Well, as you can imagine, it’s important that they not be able to breed,
And whenever we faced a critical matter such as this, we designed
 redundant systems. That is, we always arranged at least two control procedures.
 In this case, there are two independent reasons why the animals can’t breed. First
 of all, they’re sterile, because we irradiate them with X rays.
And the second reason?
All the animals in Jurassic Park are female,
I should like some clarification about this. Because it seems to
 me that irradiation is fraught with uncertainty. The radiation dose may be wrong,
 or aimed at the wrong anatomical area of the animal—
All true,
But we’re quite confident we have destroyed gonadal
 tissue.
And as for them all being female,
is that checked? Does anyone
 go out and, ah, lift up the dinosaurs’ skirts to have a look? I mean, how does one
 determine the sex of a dinosaur, anyway?
Sex organs vary with the species. It’s easy to tell on some, subtle on others.
 But, to answer your question, the reason we know all the animals are female is
 that we literally make them that way: we control their chromosomes, and we
 control the intra-egg developmental environment. From a bioengineering
 standpoint, females are easier to breed. You probably know that all vertebrate
 embryos are inherently female. We all start life as females. It takes some kind of
 added effect—such as a hormone at the right moment during development—to
 transform the growing embryo into a male. But, left to its own devices, the embryo
 will naturally become female. So our animals are all female. We tend to refer to
 some of them as male—such as the Tyrannosaurus rex; we all call it a ‘him’—but
 in fact, they’re all female. And, believe me, they can’t breed.
She wants you to feed her,
What does she eat?
Mice. But she’s just eaten, so we won’t feed her again for a while.
Do you mind?
She doesn’t like that,
Doesn’t like to be held away from body
 contact…
Dr. Grant. If you please.
I’m not hurting her.
Dr. Grant. These creatures are not of our world. They come from a time when
 there were no human beings around to prod and poke them.
I’m not prodding and—
Dr. Grant. Put her down,
But—
Now.
I’m sorry, Dr. Grant,
But these animals are delicate in infancy. We
 have lost several from a postnatal stress syndrome, which we believe is
 adrenocortically mediated. Sometimes they die within five minutes.
It’s okay, kid,
Everything’s fine now.
We feel it is important that the animals here be treated in the most humane
 manner,
I promise you that you will have every opportunity to
 examine them later.
Fascinating,
Can I stay and play with her?
Not right now,
It’s three o’clock, and it’s
 a good time for a tour of the park itself, so you can see all the dinosaurs in the
 habitats we have designed for them.
I have one more
 question, Dr. Wu. How many different species have you made so far?
I’m not exactly sure,
I believe the number at the moment is fifteen.
 Fifteen species. Do you know, Ed?
Yes, it’s fifteen,
You don’t know for sure?
I stopped counting,
after the first dozen. And you have to
 realize that sometimes we think we have an animal correctly made—from the
 standpoint of the DNA, which is our basic work—and the animal grows for six
 months and then something untoward happens. And we realize there is some
 error. A releaser gene isn’t operating. A hormone not being released. Or some other
 problem in the developmental sequence. So we have to go back to the drawing
 board with that animal, so to speak.
At one time, I thought I had
 more than twenty species. But now, only fifteen.
And is one of the fifteen species a—
What was the name?
Procompsognathus,
You have made some procompsognathuses, or whatever they’re called?
Oh yes,
Compys are very distinctive animals. And, we
 made an unusually large number of them.
Why is that?
Well, we want Jurassic Park to be as real an environment as possible—as
 authentic as possible—and the procompsognathids are actual scavengers from the
 Jurassic period. Rather like jackals. So we wanted to have the compys around to
 clean up.
You mean to dispose of carcasses?
Yes, if there were any. But with only two hundred and thirty-odd animals in
 our total population, we don’t have many carcasses,
That wasn’t the
 primary objective. Actually, we wanted the compys for another kind of waste
 management entirely.
Which was?
Well,
we have some very big herbivores on this island. We have
 specifically tried not to breed the biggest sauropods, but even so, we’ve got several
 animals in excess of thirty tons walking around out there, and many others in the
 five- to ten-ton area. That gives us two problems. One is feeding them, and in fact
 we must import food to the island every two weeks. There is no way an island this
 small can support these animals for any time.
 “But the other problem is waste. I don’t know if you’ve ever seen elephant
 droppings,
but they are substantial. Each spoor is roughly the size of a
 soccer ball. Imagine the droppings of a brontosaur, ten times as large. Now
 imagine the droppings of a herd of such animals, as we keep here. And the largest
 animals do not digest their food terribly well, so that they excrete a great deal. And
 in the sixty million years since dinosaurs disappeared, apparently the bacteria
 that specialize in breaking down their feces disappeared, too. At least, the
 sauropod feces don’t decompose readily.
That’s a problem,
I assure you it is,
We had a hell of a time trying to solve
 it. You probably know that in Africa there is a specific insect, the dung beetle,
 which eats elephant feces. Many other large species have associated creatures that
 have evolved to eat their excrement. Well, it turns out that compys will eat the
 feces of large herbivores and redigest it. And the droppings of compys are readily
 broken down by contemporary bacteria. So, given enough compys, our problem
 was solved.
How many compys did you make?
I’ve forgotten exactly, but I think the target population was fifty animals. And
 we attained that, or very nearly so. In three batches.
 We did a batch every six months until we had the number.
Fifty animals,
is a lot to keep track of.
The control room is built to do exactly that. They’ll show you how it’s done.
I’m sure,
But if one of these compys were to escape from the
 island, to get away …
They can’t get away.
I know that, but just supposing one did …
You mean like the animal that was found on the beach?
The one that bit the American girl?
Yes, for example.
I don’t know what the explanation for that animal is,
But I know it
 can’t possibly be one of ours, for two reasons. First, the control procedures: our
 animals are counted by computer every few minutes. If one were missing, we’d
 know at once.
And the second reason?
The mainland is more than a hundred miles away. It takes almost a day to get
 there by boat. And in the outside world our animals will die within twelve hours,
How do you know?
Because I’ve made sure that’s precisely what will occur,
Look, we’re not fools. We understand these are
 prehistoric animals. They are part of a vanished ecology—a complex web of life
 that became extinct millions of years ago. They might have no predators in the
 contemporary world, no checks on their growth. We don’t want them to survive in
 the wild. So I’ve made them lysine dependent. I inserted a gene that makes a
 single faulty enzyme in protein metabolism. As a result, the animals cannot
 manufacture the amino acid lysine. They must ingest it from the outside. Unless
 they get a rich dietary source of exogenous lysine—supplied by us, in tablet form—
 they’ll go into a coma within twelve hours and expire. These animals are
 genetically engineered to be unable to survive in the real world. They can only live
 here in Jurassic Park. They are not free at all. They are essentially our prisoners.
Here’s the control room,
Now that you know how the animals
 are made, you’ll want to see the control room for the park itself, before we go out
 on the—
What’s going on?
Oh hell, they’re docking.
Docking?
Every two weeks, the supply boat comes in from the mainland. One of the
 things this island doesn’t have is a good harbor, or even a good dock. It’s a little
 hairy to get the ship in, when the seas are rough. Could be a few minutes.
I guess we have to
 wait, then.
You mentioned before that sometimes you make an
 animal and it seems to be fine but, as it grows, it shows itself to be flawed…
Yes,
I don’t think there’s any way around that. We can duplicate the
 DNA, but there is a lot of timing in development, and we don’t know if everything
 is working unless we actually see an animal develop correctly.
How do you know if it’s developing correctly? No one has ever seen
 these animals before.
I have often thought about that. I suppose it is a bit of a paradox.
 Eventually, I hope, paleontologists such as yourself will compare our animals with
 the fossil record to verify the developmental sequence.
But the animal we just saw, the velociraptor—you said it was a
 mongoliensis?
From the location of the amber,
It is from China.
Interesting,
I was just digging up an infant antirrhopus. Are there
 any full-grown raptors here?
Yes,
Eight adult females. The females are
 the real hunters. They’re pack hunters, you know.
Will we see them on the tour?
No,
Not for a while,
The velociraptors haven’t been
 integrated into the park setting just yet. We keep them in a holding pen.
Can I see them there?
Why, yes, of course. In fact, while we’re waiting
you might want to go around and have a look at them.
I certainly would,
Absolutely,
I want to go, too,
Just go around the back of this building, past the support facility, and you’ll
 see the pen. But don’t get too close to the fence. Do you want to go, too?
No,
You want to play a little
 pickle? Throw a few?
Well, sure,
Why don’t you and I go downstairs and we’ll do
 that, while we wait for the control room to open up?
Stegosaurus!
What do you know about Velociraptor?
It’s a small carnivore that hunted in packs, like Deinonychus,
That’s right,
although Deinonychus is now considered one of the
 velociraptors. And the evidence for pack hunting is all circumstantial. It derives in
 part from the appearance of the animals, which are quick and strong, but small
for dinosaurs—just a hundred and fifty to three hundred pounds each. We assume
 they hunted in groups if they were to bring down larger prey. And there are some
 fossil finds in which a single large prey animal is associated with several raptor
 skeletons, suggesting they hunted in packs. And, of course, raptors were large
brained, more intelligent than most dinosaurs.
How intelligent is that?
Depends on who you talk to,
Just as paleontologists have come
 around to the idea that dinosaurs were probably warm-blooded, a lot of us are
 starting to think some of them might have been quite intelligent, too. But nobody
 knows for sure.
It must be a generator,
It’s big,
They can’t need all this just for a resort,
They’re
 generating enough power here for a small city.
Maybe for the computers?
Maybe.
What’s that for?
Beats me.
Probably they feed ’em to the dinosaurs,
I don’t see anything,
Ssssh.
Holy shit,
It was so fast,
Pack hunters,
Pack hunters for whom ambush
 is an instinct… Fascinating.
I wouldn’t call them tremendously intelligent,
Are you all right?
We’re okay,
The alarms were set off.
They attacked you?
Three of them did, yes.
They do that all the time. Hit the fence, take a shock.
 They never seem to mind.
Not too smart, are they?
Be glad
 for that fence, señor,
They are remarkably fast.
Yes,
Much faster than any living reptile. A bull alligator can move
 quickly, but only over a short distance—five or six feet. Big lizards like the five-foot
 Komodo dragons of Indonesia have been clocked at thirty miles an hour, fast
 enough to run down a man. And they kill men all the time. But I’d guess the
 animal behind the fence was more than twice that fast.
Cheetah speed,
Sixty, seventy miles an hour.
Exactly.
But they seemed to dart forward,
Rather like birds.
Yes.
So these velociraptors look like reptiles, with the skin and general appearance
 of reptiles, but they move like birds, with the speed and predatory intelligence of
 birds. Is that about it?
Yes,
I’d say they display a mixture of traits.
Does that surprise you?
Not really,
It’s actually rather close to what paleontologists
 believed a long time ago.
terrible lizards.
Actually, what I was driving at,
was this: Is it a persuasive
 animal to you? Is it in fact a dinosaur?
I’d say so, yes.
And the coordinated attack behavior…
To be expected,
How do they do that, without language?
Oh, language isn’t necessary for coordinated hunting,
Chimpanzees do it all the time. A group of chimps will stalk a monkey and kill it.
 All communication is by eyes.
And were the dinosaurs in fact attacking us?
Yes.
They would kill us and eat us if they could?
I think so.
The reason I ask,
is that I’m told large predators such as lions
 and tigers are not born man-eaters. Isn’t that true? These animals must learn
 somewhere along the way that human beings are easy to kill. Only afterward do
 they become man-killers.
Yes, I believe that’s true,
Well, these dinosaurs must be even more reluctant than lions and tigers. After
 all, they come from a time before human beings—or even large mammals—existed
 at all. God knows what they think when they see us. So I wonder: have they
 learned, somewhere along the line, that humans are easy to kill?
In any case,
I shall be extremely interested to see the control
 room now.
Was there any problem with the group?
No,
there was no problem at all.
They accepted your explanation?
Why shouldn’t they?
It’s all quite straightforward, in the broad
 strokes. It’s only the details that get sticky. And I wanted to talk about the details
 with you today. You can think of it as a matter of aesthetics.
Aesthetics?
Of course, there are practical consequences as well,
I really think
 you should consider my recommendations for phase two.
 We should go to version 4.4.
You want to replace all the current stock of animals?
Yes, I do.
Why? What’s wrong with them?
Nothing,
except that they’re real dinosaurs.
That’s what I asked for, Henry,
And that’s what you
 gave me.
I know,
But you see…
Right now, as we stand here, almost no
 one in the world has ever seen an actual dinosaur. Nobody knows what they’re
 really like.
Yes…
The dinosaurs we have now are real,
but in certain ways they are unsatisfactory. Unconvincing. I could
 make them better.
Better in what way?
For one thing, they move too fast,
People aren’t accustomed
 to seeing large animals that are so quick. I’m afraid visitors will think the
 dinosaurs look speeded up, like film running too fast.
But, Henry, these are real dinosaurs. You said so yourself.
I know,
But we could easily breed slower, more domesticated
 dinosaurs.
Domesticated dinosaurs?
Nobody wants domesticated
 dinosaurs, Henry. They want the real thing.
But that’s my point,
I don’t think they do. They want to see their
 expectation, which is quite different.
You said yourself, John, this park is entertainment,
And
 entertainment has nothing to do with reality. Entertainment is antithetical to
 reality.
Now, Henry, are we going to have another one of those
 abstract discussions? You know I like to keep it simple. The dinosaurs we have
 now are real, and—
Well, not exactly,
I don’t think we should kid ourselves. We haven’t re-created the past here. The
 past is gone. It can never be re-created. What we’ve done is reconstruct the past—
 or at least a version of the past. And I’m saying we can make a better version.
Better than real?
Why not?
After all, these animals are already modified. We’ve
 inserted genes to make them patentable, and to make them lysine dependent. And
 we’ve done everything we can to promote growth, and accelerate development into
 adulthood.
That was inevitable. We didn’t want to wait. We have
 investors to consider.
Of course. But I’m just saying, why stop there? Why not push ahead to make
 exactly the kind of dinosaur that we’d like to see? One that is more acceptable to
 visitors, and one that is easier for us to handle? A slower, more docile version for
 our park?
But then the dinosaurs wouldn’t be real.
But they’re not real now,
That’s what I’m trying to tell you. There
 isn’t any reality here.
Now, Henry,
If you
 don’t mind my saying so, I think you’re getting cold feet. You’ve been working very
 hard for a long time, and you’ve done a hell of a job—a hell of a job—and it’s finally
 time to reveal to some people what you’ve done. It’s natural to be a little nervous.
 To have some doubts. But I am convinced, Henry, that the world will be entirely
 satisfied. Entirely satisfied.
But, John,
Remember back in ’87, when we started to build the
 containment devices? We didn’t have any full-grown adults yet, so we had to
 predict what we’d need. We ordered big taser shockers, cars with cattle prods
 mounted on them, guns that blow out electric nets. All built specially to our
 specifications. We’ve got a whole array of devices now—and they’re all too slow.
 We’ve got to make some adjustments. You know that Muldoon wants military
 equipment: LAW missiles and laser-guided devices?
Let’s leave Muldoon out of this,
I’m not worried. It’s just a
 zoo, Henry.
Norman always said you’re the best geneticist in his lab,
What are
 your plans now?
I don’t know. Research.
You want a university appointment?
Yes.
That’s a mistake,
At least, if you respect your talent.
Why?
Because, let’s face facts,
Universities are no longer the
 intellectual centers of the country. The very idea is preposterous. Universities are
 the backwater. Don’t look so surprised. I’m not saying anything you don’t know.
 Since World War II, all the really important discoveries have come out of private
 laboratories. The laser, the transistor, the polio vaccine, the microchip, the
 hologram, the personal computer, magnetic resonance imaging, CAT scans—the
 list goes on and on. Universities simply aren’t where it’s happening any more. And
 they haven’t been for forty years. If you want to do something important in
 computers or genetics, you don’t go to a university. Dear me, no.
Good heavens,
what must you go through to start a new
 project? How many grant applications, how many forms, how many approvals?
 The steering committee? The department chairman? The university resources
 committee? How do you get more work space if you need it? More assistants if you
 need them? How long does all that take? A brilliant man can’t squander precious
 time with forms and committees. Life is too short, and DNA too long. You want to
 make your mark. If you want to get something done, stay out of universities.
I’m talking about work,
Real accomplishment. What
 does a scientist need to work? He needs time, and he needs money. I’m talking
 about giving you a five-year commitment, and ten million dollars a year in
 funding. Fifty million dollars, and no one tells you how to spend it. You decide.
 Everyone else just gets out of your way.
In
 return for what?
For taking a crack at the impossible,
For trying something
 that probably can’t be done.
What does it involve?
I can’t give you details, but the general area involves cloning reptiles.
I don’t think that’s impossible,
Reptiles are easier than mammals.
 Cloning’s probably only ten, fifteen years off. Assuming some fundamental
 advances.
I’ve got five years,
And a lot of money, for somebody who
 wants to take a crack at it now.
Is my work publishable?
Eventually.
Not immediately?
No.
But eventually publishable?
Don’t worry. If you succeed, the whole world will know
 about what you’ve done, I promise you.
That should be fine,
Fine. Yes. Fine,
Where were we,
 Henry?
We were talking about phase two,
Oh yes. We’ve gone over some of this before, Henry—
I know, but you don’t realize—
Excuse me, Henry,
I
 do realize. And I must tell you frankly, Henry. I see no reason to improve upon
 reality. Every change we’ve made in the genome has been forced on us by law or
 necessity. We may make other changes in the future, to resist disease, or for other
 reasons. But I don’t think we should improve upon reality just because we think
 it’s better that way. We have real dinosaurs out there now. That’s what people
 want to see. And that’s what they should see. That’s our obligation, Henry. That’s
 honest, Henry.
You want to know about control mechanisms?
We have unbelievable
 control mechanisms,
For example,
For example, animal tracking.
That’s our juvenile T
rex. The little rex. All his movements within the park over the last twenty-four
 hours.
Previous twenty-four.
Previous twenty-four.
You get a sense of his home range over time,
He’s young, so he
 stays close to the water. And he stays away from the big adult rex. You put up the
 big rex and the little rex, and you’ll see their paths never cross.
Where is the big rex right now?
He’s right there.
And the little rex?
Hell, I’ll show you every animal in the park,
That’s two hundred thirty-eight animals as of this minute.
How accurate?
Within five feet.
Let’s put it this way: you drive
 out in a vehicle and you will find the animals right there, exactly as they’re shown
 on the map.
How often is this updated?
Every thirty seconds.
Pretty impressive,
How’s it done?
We have motion sensors all around the park,
Most of ’em hard
wired, some radio-telemetered. Of course, motion sensors won’t usually tell you
 the species, but we get image recognition direct off the video. Even when we’re not
 watching the video monitors, the computer is. And checking where everybody is.
Does the computer ever make a mistake?
Only with the babies. It mixes those up sometimes, because they’re such small
 images. But we don’t sweat that. The babies almost always stay close to herds of
 adults. Also you have the category tally.
What’s that?
Once every fifteen minutes, the computer tallies the animals in all categories,
Like this.
What you see here,
is an entirely separate counting procedure. It
 isn’t based on the tracking data. It’s a fresh look. The whole idea is that the
 computer can’t make a mistake, because it compares two different ways of
 gathering the data. If an animal were missing, we’d know it within five minutes.
I see,
And has that ever actually been tested?
Well, in a way,
We’ve had a few animals die. An othnielian got
 caught in the branches of a tree and strangled. One of the stegos died of that
 intestinal illness that keeps bothering them. One of the hypsilophodonts fell and
 broke his neck. And in each case, once the animal stopped moving, the numbers
 stopped tallying and the computer signaled an alert.
Within five minutes.
Yes.
What is the right-hand column?
Release version of the animals. The most recent are version 4.1 or 4.3. We’re
 considering going to version 4.4.
Version numbers? You mean like software? New releases?
Well, yes,
It is like software, in a way. As we discover the glitches
 in the DNA, Dr. Wu’s labs have to make a new version.
Look, Dr. Grant,
 there’s no point getting starry-eyed about these animals. It’s important for
 everyone to remember that these animals are created. Created by man. Sometimes
 there are bugs. So, as we discover the bugs, Dr. Wu’s labs have to make a new
 version. And we need to keep track of what version we have out there.
Yes, yes, of course you do,
But, going back to the
 matter of counting—I take it all the counts are based on motion sensors?
Yes.
And these sensors are everywhere in the park?
They cover ninety-two percent of the land area,
There are only a
 few places we can’t use them. For example, we can’t use them on the jungle river,
 because the movement of the water and the convection rising from the surface
screws up the sensors. But we have them nearly everywhere else. And if the
 computer tracks an animal into an unsensed zone, it’ll remember, and look for the
 animal to come out again. And if it doesn’t, it gives us an alarm.
Now, then,
You show forty-nine procompsognathids. Suppose I
 suspect that some of them aren’t really the correct species. How would you show
 me that I’m wrong?
Two ways,
First of all, I can track individual movements against
 the other presumed compys. Compys are social animals, they move in a group. We
 have two compy groups in the park. So the individuals should be within either
 group A or group B.
Yes, but—
The other way is direct visual,
These pictures are…
Current ID images. From within the last five minutes.
So you can see all the animals, if you want to?
Yes. I can visually review all the animals whenever I want.
How about physical containment?
Can they get out of their
 enclosures?
Absolutely not,
These are expensive animals, Mr. Gennaro. We
 take very good care of them. We maintain multiple barriers. First, the moats.
These
 moats are never less than twelve feet deep, and water-filled. For bigger animals the
 moats may be thirty feet deep. Next, the electrified fences.
We have fifty miles of twelve-foot-high fencing, including
 twenty-two miles around the perimeter of the island. All the park fences carry ten
 thousand volts. The animals quickly learn not to go near them.
But if one did get out?
Just hypothetically,
Supposing it happened?
We’d go out and get the animal back,
We
 have lots of ways to do that—taser shock guns, electrified nets, tranquilizers. All
 nonlethal, because, as Mr. Arnold says, these are expensive animals.
And if one got off the island?
It’d die in less than twenty-four hours,
These are genetically
 engineered animals. They’re unable to survive in the real world.
How about this control system itself?
Could anybody tamper
 with it?
The system is hardened. The computer is
 independent in every way. Independent power and independent backup power.
 The system does not communicate with the outside, so it cannot be influenced
 remotely by modem. The computer system is secure.
Hell of a system,
Hell
 of a goddamned system.
Then I guess,
your system works so well, you don’t have any
 problems.
We’ve got endless problems here,
But none
 of the things you worry about. I gather you’re worried that the animals will escape,
 and will get to the mainland and raise hell. We haven’t got any concern about that
 at all. We see these animals as fragile and delicate. They’ve been brought back
 after sixty-five million years to a world that’s very different from the one they left,
 the one they were adapted to. We have a hell of a time caring for them.
 “You have to realize,
that men have been keeping mammals
 and reptiles in zoos for hundreds of years. So we know a lot about how to take
 care of an elephant or a croc. But nobody has ever tried to take care of a dinosaur
 before. They are new animals. And we just don’t know. Diseases in our animals
 are the biggest concern.
Diseases?
Is there any way that a visitor
 could get sick?
You ever catch a cold from a zoo alligator, Mr. Gennaro?
 Zoos don’t worry about that. Neither do we. What we do worry about is the
 animals’ dying from their own illnesses, or infecting other animals. But we have
 programs to monitor that, too. You want to see the big rex’s health file? His
 vaccination record? His dental record? That’s something—you ought to see the
 vets scrubbing those big fangs so he doesn’t get tooth decay…
Not just now,
What about your mechanical systems?
You mean the rides?
None of the rides are running yet,
We have the Jungle
 River Ride, where the boats follow tracks underwater, and we have the Aviary
 Lodge Ride, but none of it’s operational yet. The park’ll open with the basic
 dinosaur tour—the one that you’re about to take in a few minutes. The other rides
 will come on line six, twelve months after that.
Wait a minute,
You’re going to have rides? Like an amusement
 park?
This is a zoological park. We have tours of different areas, and we
 call them rides. That’s all.
You can run the whole park from this control
 room?
Yes,
I can run it single-handed, if I have to. We’ve got that much
 automation built in. The computer by itself can track the animals, feed them, and
 fill their water troughs for forty-eight hours without supervision.
This is the system Mr. Nedry designed?
Yes, that’s right,
It’s a hell of a system,
That’s right,
Just one or two minor bugs to fix.
Now,
I see the tour is starting, so unless you have other
 questions…
Actually, just one,
Just a research question. You showed us
 that you can track the procompsognathids and you can visually display them
individually. Can you do any studies of them as a group? Measure them, or
 whatever? If I wanted to know height or weight, or…
We can do all of that, and very quickly,
The computer takes
 measurement data in the course of reading the video screens, so it is translatable
 at once. You see here we have a normal Gaussian distribution for the animal
 population. It shows that most of the animals cluster around an average central
 value, and a few are either larger or smaller than the average, at the tails of the
 curve.
You’d expect that kind of graph,
Yes. Any healthy biological population shows this kind of distribution. Now,
 then,
are there any other questions?
No,
I’ve learned what I need to know.
It looks like a pretty good system to
 me. I don’t see how any animals could get off this island.
Don’t you?
I thought it was completely obvious.
Wait a minute,
You think animals have gotten out?
I know they have.
But how? You saw for yourself. They can count all the animals.
 They can look at all the animals. They know where all the animals are at all times.
 How can one possibly escape?
It’s quite obvious,
It’s just a matter of your
 assumptions.
Your assumptions,
Yes,
Look here. The basic event that has occurred in Jurassic
 Park is that the scientists and technicians have tried to make a new, complete
 biological world. And the scientists in the control room expect to see a natural
 world. As in the graph they just showed us. Even though a moment’s thought
 reveals that nice, normal distribution is terribly worrisome on this island.
It is?
Yes. Based on what Dr. Wu told us earlier, one should never see a population
 graph like that.
Why not?
Because that is a graph for a normal biological population. Which is precisely
 what Jurassic Park is not. Jurassic Park is not the real world. It is intended to be
 a controlled world that only imitates the natural world. In that sense, it’s a true
park, rather like a Japanese formal garden. Nature manipulated to be more
 natural than the real thing, if you will.
I’m afraid you’ve lost me,
I’m sure the tour will make everything clear,
This way, everybody, this way,
Jurassic Park
Two to four passengers to a car, please, two to four passengers to a car,
Children under ten must be accompanied by an adult.
 Two to four passengers to a car, please …
Can I go with them?
I’m afraid they have things to discuss,
Technical things.
I’m interested in technical things,
I’d rather go with them.
Well, you’ll be able to hear what they’re saying,
We’ll have a radio
 open between the cars.
These are
 electric cars,
Guided by a cable in the roadway.
Let’s hear what they are saying.
I don’t know what the hell you think you’re doing here,
I know quite well why I’m here,
You’re here to advise me, not play goddamned mind games. I’ve got five percent
 of this company and a responsibility to make sure that Hammond has done his job
 responsibly. Now you goddamn come here—
In keeping with the
 nonpolluting policies of Jurassic Park, these lightweight electric Land Cruisers
 have been specially built for us by Toyota in Osaka. Eventually we hope to drive
 among the animals—just as they do in African game parks—but, for now, sit back
and enjoy the self-guided tour.
And, by the way, we can hear you
 back here.
Oh Christ,
I have to be able to speak freely. I didn’t ask for
 these damned kids to come—
We’ll just begin the show, shall
 we?
Welcome to Jurassic
 Park. You are now entering the lost world of the prehistoric past, a world of mighty
 creatures long gone from the face of the earth, which you are privileged to see for
 the first time.
That’s Richard Kiley,
We spared no expense.
Notice, first of all, the remarkable plant life that surrounds you.
 Those trees to your left and right are called cycads, the prehistoric predecessors of
 palm trees. Cycads were a favorite food of the dinosaurs. You can also see
 bennettitaleans, and ginkgoes. The world of the dinosaur included more modern
 plants, such as pine and fir trees, and swamp cypresses. You will see these as
 well.
We imagine the world of the dinosaurs,
as a world
 of huge vegetarians, eating their way through the giant swampy forests of the
 Jurassic and Cretaceous world, a hundred million years ago. But most dinosaurs
 were not as large as people think. The smallest dinosaurs were no bigger than a
 house cat, and the average dinosaur was about as big as a pony. We are first going
 to visit one of these average-size animals, called hypsilophodonts. If you look to
 your left, you may catch a glimpse of them now.
Where are they?
Hypsilophodontids are the gazelles of the dinosaur world: small,
 quick animals that once roamed everywhere in the world, from England to Central
 Asia to North America. We think these dinosaurs were so successful because they
 had better jaws and teeth for chewing plants than their contemporaries did. In
 fact, the name ‘hypsilophodontid’ means ‘high-ridge tooth,’ which refers to the
 characteristic self-sharpening teeth of these animals. You can see them in the
 plains directly ahead, and also perhaps in the branches of the trees.
In the trees?
Dinosaurs in the trees?
To the right,
Halfway up that
 big green trunk…
That’s an othnielia,
The small animals you see are called othnielia,
in honor of the
 nineteenth-century dinosaur hunter Othniel Marsh of Yale.
Pretty boring,
They’re not doing anything.
The main herd of animals can be found in the grassy plain below you,
We can rouse them with a simple mating call.
Hypsilophodonts are not especially bright animals,
They
 have roughly the intelligence of a domestic cow.
If you see them scratching, that is because they have skin problems. The
 veterinary scientists here at Jurassic Park think it may be a fungus, or an allergy.
 But they’re not sure yet. After all, these are the first dinosaurs in history ever to be
 studied alive.
Now that we’ve had a look at these fascinating herbivores, we will go on to
 some dinosaurs that are a little larger. Quite a bit larger, in fact.
Gears are grinding,
Have
 maintenance check the electric clutches on vehicles BB4 and BB5 when they come
 back.
Yes, Mr. Arnold,
A minor detail,
There are no minor details, Mr. Hammond,
Paris is a theme
 park,
although it’s too expensive, and the
 park employees are unpleasant and sullen.
the September opening,
You’re just a worrier,
I don’t think so,
You’ve got to realize that, from an engineering
 standpoint, Jurassic Park is by far the most ambitious theme park in history.
 Visitors will never think about it, but I do.
First, Jurassic Park has all the problems of any amusement park—ride
 maintenance, 
queue control, transportation, food handling, living
 accommodations, trash disposal, security.
 “Second, we have all the problems of a major zoo—care of the animals; health
 and welfare; feeding and cleanliness; protection from insects, pests, allergies, and
 illnesses; maintenance of barriers; and all the rest.
 “And, finally, we have the unprecedented problems of caring for a population of
 animals that no one has ever tried to maintain before.
Oh, it’s not as bad as all that,
Yes, it is. You’re just not here to see it,
The tyrannosaurs drink
 the lagoon water and sometimes get sick; we aren’t sure why. The triceratops
 females kill each other in fights for dominance and have to be separated into
groups smaller than six. We don’t know why. The stegosaurs frequently get
 blisters on their tongues and diarrhea, for reasons no one yet understands, even
 though we’ve lost two. Hypsilophodonts get skin rashes. And the velociraptors—
Let’s not start on the velociraptors,
I’m sick of hearing about
 the velociraptors. How they’re the most vicious creatures anyone has ever seen.
They are,
They should all be destroyed.
You wanted to fit them with radio collars,
And I agreed.
Yes. And they promptly chewed the collars off. But even if the raptors never get
 free,
I think we have to accept that Jurassic Park is inherently
 hazardous.
Oh balls,
Whose side are you on, anyway?
We now have fifteen species of extinct animals, and most of them are
 dangerous,
We’ve been forced to delay the Jungle River Ride
 because of the dilophosaurs; and the Pteratops Lodge in the aviary, because the
 pterodactyls are so unpredictable. These aren’t engineering delays, Mr. Hammond.
 They’re problems with control of the animals.
You’ve had plenty of engineering delays,
Don’t blame it on
 the animals.
Yes, we have. In fact, it’s all we could do to get the main attraction, Park Drive,
 working correctly, to get the CD-ROMs inside the cars to be controlled by the
 motion sensors. It’s taken weeks of adjustment to get that working properly—and
 now the electric gearshifts on the cars are acting up! The gearshifts!
Let’s keep it in perspective,
You get the engineering correct
 and the animals will fall into place. After all, they’re trainable.
Meanwhile, how’s the computer?
This damn computer
 has always been a headache.
We’re getting there,
If you had done it right in the first place,
It’s a large system,
There are bound to be glitches.
If you look to your left,
you will see the dome of the Jurassic
 Park aviary, which is not yet finished for visitors.
And directly below is our Mesozoic jungle
 river—where, if you are lucky, you just may catch a glimpse of a very rare
 carnivore. Keep your eyes peeled, everyone!
There they are now,
The animals you see are called
 dilophosaurs.
They’re pretty,
Dilophosaurus,
is one of the earliest carnivorous dinosaurs.
 Scientists thought their jaw muscles were too weak to kill prey, and imagined they
 were primarily scavengers. But now we know they are poisonous.
Hey.
All right.
Are they really poisonous, Mr. Regis?
Don’t worry about it,
But are they?
Well, yes, Lex.
Along with such living reptiles as Gila monsters and rattlesnakes,
 Dilophosaurus secretes a hematotoxin from glands in its mouth. Unconsciousness
 follows within minutes of a bite. The dinosaur will then finish the victim off at its
 leisure—making Dilophosaurus a beautiful but deadly addition to the animals you
 see here at Jurassic Park.
If you look on the bluff to the right, you’ll see Les Gigantes, the site of our
 superb three-star dining room. Chef Alain Richard hails from the world-famous Le
 Beaumanière in France. Make your reservations by dialing four from your hotel
 rooms.
Not for a while, though,
The restaurant won’t even start
 construction until November.
Continuing on our prehistoric safari, we come next to the herbivores of the
 ornithischian group. If you look to your right, you can probably see them now.
Unlike other dinosaurs,
Triceratops serratus can’t see well.
 They’re nearsighted, like the rhinos of today, and they tend to be surprised by
 moving objects. They’d charge our car if they were close enough to see it! But
 relax, folks—we’re safe enough here.
 “Triceratops have a fan-shaped crest behind their heads. It’s made of solid bone,
 and it’s very strong. These animals weigh about seven tons each. Despite their
 appearance, they are actually quite docile. They know their handlers, and they’ll
 allow themselves to be petted. They particularly like to be scratched in the
 hindquarters.
Why don’t they move?
Hey! Stupid
 dinosaur! Move!
Don’t bother the animals, Lex,
Why? It’s stupid. They just sit there like a picture in a book,
—easygoing monsters from a bygone world stand in
 sharp contrast to what we will see next. The most famous predator in the history
 of the world: the mighty tyrant lizard, known as Tyrannosaurus rex.
Good, Tyrannosaurus rex,
I hope he’s better than these bozos,
The mighty tyrannosaurs arose late in dinosaur history. Dinosaurs ruled the
 earth for a hundred and twenty million years, but there were tyrannosaurs for
 only the last fifteen million years of that period.
It works, doesn’t it?
I like to come
 here sometimes, in the evening. And just sit.
Where is T-rex?
Good question. You often see the little one down in the lagoon. The lagoon’s
 stocked, so we have fish in there. The little one has learned to catch the fish.
 Interesting how he does it. He doesn’t use his hands, but he ducks his whole head
 under the water. Like a bird.
The little one?
The little T-rex. He’s a juvenile, two years old, and about a third grown now.
 Stands eight feet high, weighs a ton and a half. The other one’s a full-grown
 tyrannosaur. But I don’t see him at the moment.
Maybe he’s down hunting the apatosaurs,
He would if he could, believe me.
 Sometimes he stands by the lagoon and stares at those animals, and wiggles those
 little forearms of his in frustration. But the T-rex territory is completely enclosed
 with trenches and fences. They’re disguised from view, but believe me, he can’t go
 anywhere.
Then where is he?
Hiding,
He’s a little shy.
Shy?
Tyrannosaurus rex is shy?
Well, he conceals himself as a general rule. You almost never see him out in
 the open, especially in daylight.
Why is that?
We think it’s because he has sensitive skin and sunburns easily.
You’re destroying a lot of illusions.
I don’t think you’ll be disappointed,
Just wait.
Any minute now,
Look at them,
Leaning
 out of the windows, so eager. They can’t wait to see it. They have come for the
 danger.
That’s what I’m afraid of,
What Robert Trent Jones is to golf courses, Robert Muldoon is to zoos: a
 designer of unsurpassed knowledge and skill.
I’m going downstairs,
Hey,
As long as you’re up, get me a
 Coke, okay?
What’s going to happen to
 the goat? Is she going to eat the goat?
I think so,
He’s here.
She,
Oh, my God… She’s as large as a bloody building…
How long will it wait?
Maybe three or four minutes. Maybe—
Can she see us?
Oh yes,
Let’s see if she’s going to eat here in front
 of us, or if she’s going to drag the prey away.
Like a bird,
What is she afraid of?
Probably another tyrannosaur,
nature, red in tooth and claw
She’s going to stay,
Excellent.
Ewww,
That’s disgusting.
Ladies and gentlemen, Tyrannosaurus rex,
Fantastic,
—Jesus, if an animal like that gets out,
there’d be no stopping it.
No stopping it, no…
Huge, with no natural enemies…
My God, think of it…
Damn those people. They are so negative.
They’re still going on about an animal escaping? I don’t understand.
 They must have seen by now that we have everything under control. We’ve
 engineered the animals and engineered the resort…
It’s that Malcolm,
He’s behind it all. He was against us
 from the start, you know. He’s got his theory that complex systems can’t be
 controlled and nature can’t be imitated. I don’t know what his problem is. Hell,
 we’re just making a zoo here. World’s full of ’em, and they all work fine. But he’s
 going to prove his theory or die trying. I just hope he doesn’t panic Gennaro into
 trying to shut the park down.
Can he do that?
No,
But he can try. He can try and frighten the Japanese
 investors, and get them to withdraw funds. Or he can make a stink with the San
 José government. He can make trouble.
Let’s wait and see what happens,
We believe in the park. Let’s see how it plays out.
Looks like rain,
The big animals you see are commonly called Brontosaurus,
but they are actually Apatosaurus. They weigh more than thirty tons. That
 means a single animal is as big as a whole herd of modern elephants. And you
 may notice that their preferred area, alongside the lagoon, is not swampy. Despite
 what the books say, brontosaurs avoid swamps. They prefer dry land.
Brontosaurus is the biggest dinosaur, Lex,
The dinosaurs of Jurassic Park don’t breed,
The young
 animals you see were introduced a few months ago, already hatched. But the
 adults nurture them anyway.
Yeah, looks like rain, all right,
Hey!
Stop the car!
What is it?
Quick! Stop the car!
We move on now to see the last of our great prehistoric animals, the
 stegosaurs,
What’s the matter, Tim?’ 
I saw one! I saw one in the field out there!
Saw what?
A raptor! In that field!
The stegosaurs are a mid-Jurassic animal, evolving about a hundred and
 seventy million years ago,
Several of these remarkable
 herbivores live here at Jurassic Park.
Oh, I don’t think so, Tim,
Not a raptor.
I did! Stop the car!
Tim says he saw a raptor.
Where?
Back at the field.
Let’s go back and look.
We can’t go back,
We can only go forward. The cars are
 programmed.
We can’t go back?
No,
Sorry. You see, it’s kind of a ride—
Tim, this is Professor Malcolm,
I have
 just one question for you about this raptor. How old would you say it was?
Older than the baby we saw today,
And younger than the big adults
 in the pen. The adults were six feet tall. This one was about half that size.
That’s fine,
I only saw it for a second,
I’m sure it wasn’t a raptor,
It couldn’t possibly be a raptor.
 Must have been one of the othys. They’re always jumping their fences. We have a
 hell of a time with them.
I know I saw a raptor,
I’m hungry,
What do you think the kid saw?
I think it must have been an othy.
We have trouble tracking othys, because they spend so much
 time in the trees.
What burns me,
is that we have made this wonderful park,
 this fantastic park, and our very first visitors are going through it like
 accountants, just looking for problems. They aren’t experiencing the wonder of it
 at all.
That’s their problem,
We can’t make them experience wonder.
Ah, John, this is the ANNE
 B over at the dock. We haven’t finished offloading, but I’m looking at that storm
 pattern south of us. I’d rather not be tied up here if this chop gets any worse.
How much
 left to do, Jim?
Just the three final equipment containers. I haven’t checked the manifest, but I
 assume you can wait another two weeks for it. We’re not well berthed here, you
 know, and we are one hundred miles offshore.
You requesting permission to leave?
Yes, John.
I want that equipment,
That’s equipment for the labs. We
 need it.
Yes,
But you didn’t want to put money into a storm barrier to
 protect the pier. So we don’t have a good harbor. If the storm gets worse, the ship
 will be pounded against the dock. I’ve seen ships lost that way. Then you’ve got all
 the other expenses, replacement of the vessel plus salvage to clear your
 dock … and you can’t use your dock until you do…
Get them out of there.
Permission to leave, ANNE B,
See you in two weeks,
Where are they now?
It looks like the south fields,
That means they should be almost to the
 stegos. I’m sure they’ll stop and see what Harding is doing.
I have to admit, that’s a funny-looking animal,
That’s our vet,
 Dr. Harding,
He’s anesthetized the stego, which is why
 it’s not moving. It’s sick.
What’s he sick with?
They’re not sure,
Is it contagious?
This thing sure is big,
And smelly.
Yes, it is.
Is that because it’s sick?
Maybe. And don’t forget the vet’s tranquilized it.
Ellie, have a look at this tongue,
Microvesicles,
Interesting.
We’ve had a difficult time with these stegos,
They’re always
 getting sick.
What are the symptoms?
Ugh,
Imbalance, disorientation, labored breathing, and massive diarrhea,
Seems to happen about once every six weeks or so.
They feed continuously?
Oh yes,
Animal this size has to take in a minimum of five or six
 hundred pounds of plant matter daily just to keep going. They’re constant
 foragers.
Then it’s not likely to be poisoning from a plant,
Exactly,
May I?
You have pupillary
 effects from the tranquilizer?
Yes. There’s a miotic effect, pupils are constricted.
But these pupils are dilated,
I’ll be damned,
That’s a
 pharmacological effect.
Yes.
What is the animal’s
 range?
About five square miles.
In this general area?
Their range is mostly north and east of here,
But when they get
 sick, they’re usually somewhere around this particular area.
You see those low, delicate-looking
 bushes?
West Indian lilac.
We know it’s toxic. The animals don’t eat
 it.
You’re sure?
Yes. We monitor them on video, and I’ve checked droppings just to be certain.
 The stegos never eat the lilac bushes.
They don’t eat it,
Interesting,
Because otherwise I would have said that this animal
 shows all the classic signs of Melia toxicity: stupor, blistering of the mucous
 membranes, and pupillary dilatation.
You’re right,
Plants are healthy, no sign of being eaten. None at all.
And there’s the six-week interval,
The stegosaurs come here how often?
About once a week,
Stegos make a slow loop through their home
range territory, feeding as they go. They complete the loop in about a week.
But they’re only sick once every six weeks.
Correct,
This is boring,
Ssshh,
Dr. Sattler’s trying to think.
Unsuccessfully,
Anybody want to play a little pickle?
Finding anything?
Just rocks,
We must be near the beach, because all
 these rocks are smooth. And they’re in funny little piles.
Funny little piles?
All over. There’s one pile right there.
Gizzard stones,
I think so, yes. They swallow these stones, and after a few weeks the stones are
 worn smooth, so they regurgitate them, leaving this little pile, and swallow fresh
 stones. And when they do, they swallow berries as well. And get sick.
I’ll be damned,
I’m sure you’re right.
Ellie,
Take a look at this.
Put it there, babe! Right in the old mitt!
Take it easy! I don’t have a
 glove!
You wimp!
Now that’s
 more like it,
How does this sick dinosaur fit into your theory?
It’s predicted,
Is anything not predicted by your theory?
Look,
It’s nothing to do with me. It’s chaos theory. But I notice
 nobody is willing to listen to the consequences of the mathematics. Because they
 imply very large consequences for human life. Much larger than Heisenberg’s
 principle or Gödel’s theorem, which everybody rattles on about. Those are actually
 rather academic considerations. Philosophical considerations. But chaos theory
 concerns everyday life. Do you know why computers were first built?
No,
Burn it in there,
Computers were built in the late 1940s because mathematicians like John von
 Neumann thought that if you had a computer—a machine to handle a lot of
 variables simultaneously—you would be able to predict the weather. Weather
 would finally fall to human understanding. And men believed that dream for the
 next forty years. They believed that prediction was just a function of keeping track
 of things. If you knew enough, you could predict anything. That’s been a cherished
 scientific belief since Newton.
And?
Chaos theory throws it right out the window. It says that you can never predict
 certain phenomena at all. You can never predict the weather more than a few days
 away. All the money that has been spent on long-range forecasting—about half a
 billion dollars in the last few decades—is money wasted. It’s a fool’s errand. It’s as
 pointless as trying to turn lead into gold. We look back at the alchemists and
 laugh at what they were trying to do, but future generations will laugh at us the
 same way. We’ve tried the impossible—and spent a lot of money doing it. Because
 in fact there are great categories of phenomena that are inherently unpredictable.
Chaos says that?
Yes, and it is astonishing how few people care to hear it,
I gave
 all this information to Hammond long before he broke ground on this place. You’re
 going to engineer a bunch of prehistoric animals and set them on an island? Fine.
 A lovely dream. Charming. But it won’t go as planned. It is inherently
 unpredictable, just as the weather is.
You told him this?
Yes. I also told him where the deviations would occur. Obviously the fitness of
 the animals to the environment was one area. This stegosaur is a hundred million
years old. It isn’t adapted to our world. The air is different, the solar radiation is
 different, the land is different, the insects are different, the sounds are different,
 the vegetation is different. Everything is different. The oxygen content is
 decreased. This poor animal’s like a human being at ten thousand feet altitude.
 Listen to him wheezing.
And the other areas?
Broadly speaking, the ability of the park to control the spread of life-forms.
 Because the history of evolution is that life escapes all barriers. Life breaks free.
 Life expands to new territories. Painfully, perhaps even dangerously. But life finds
 a way.
I don’t mean to be philosophical, but there it is.
Did you get my Coke?
—the
 stego—finally—handle on—now—
What’s that about?
They’re down by the south point,
That’s why they’re breaking up
 a little. I’ll switch them to another channel. But they found out what’s wrong with
 the stegos. Eating some kind of berry.
I knew we’d solve that sooner or later,
It’s not very impressive,
You sure about this,
 Alan?
Absolutely sure,
What gives it away is the patterning on the
 interior surface, the interior curve. Turn it over and you will notice a faint pattern
 of raised lines, making roughly triangular shapes.
Yes, I see them.
Well, I’ve dug out two eggs with patterns like that at my site in Montana.
You’re saying this is a piece of dinosaur eggshell?
Absolutely,
These dinosaurs can’t breed.
Evidently they can,
That must be a bird egg,
We have literally dozens of species on
 the island.
Look at the curvature. The shell is almost flat. That’s
 from a very big egg. And notice the thickness of the shell. Unless you have
 ostriches on this island, it’s a dinosaur egg.
But they can’t possibly breed,
All the animals are female.
All I know,
is that this is a dinosaur egg.
Can you tell the species?
Yes,
It’s a velociraptor egg.
Absolutely absurd,
It must be a bird egg. That’s all it can be.
Let’s do a little test, shall we?
 Ask Mr. Arnold to run one of his computer tallies.
Now?
Yes, right now. I understand you can transmit it to the screen in Dr. Harding’s
 car. Do that, too, will you?
No problem,
I hope you’re satisfied,
Are you receiving it down there on
 your screen?
We see it,
Everything accounted for, as always.
Now then,
Can you have the computer search for a different
 number of animals?
Like what?
Try two hundred thirty-nine.
Just a minute,
What the hell is that?
We picked up another compy.
From where?
I don’t know!
Now, then: can you ask the computer to search for, let us
 say, three hundred animals?
What is he talking about?
Three hundred
 animals? What’s he talking about?
Just a minute,
That’ll take a few minutes.
I don’t understand what he’s driving at,
I’m afraid I do,
Two hundred forty-four?
What’s going on?
The computer is counting the animals in the park,
All the animals.
I thought that’s what it always did.
Nedry! Have you screwed up
 again?
No,
Computer allows the operator to
 enter an expected number of animals, in order to make the counting process
 faster. But it’s a convenience, not a flaw.
He’s right,
We just always used the base count of two hundred
 thirty-eight because we assumed there couldn’t be more.
Wait a minute,
These animals can’t breed. The computer
 must be counting field mice or something.
I think so, too,
It’s almost certainly an error in the visual
 tracking. But we’ll know soon enough.
They can’t breed, can they?
No,
Where are they coming from?
Damned if I know,
Holy shit, how much more?
I’m getting hungry. When are we going home?
Pretty soon, Lex.
An error,
I thought so. I had the feeling all along
 there must be an error.
Now you see the flaw in your procedures,
You only tracked the expected number of dinosaurs. You were worried about
 losing animals, and your procedures were designed to advise you instantly if you
 had less than the expected number. But that wasn’t the problem. The problem
 was, you had more than the expected number.
Christ,
There can’t be more,
We know how many we’ve released. There can’t
 be more than that.
Afraid so, Henry,
They’re breeding.
No.
Even if you don’t accept Grant’s eggshell, you can prove it with your own data.
 Take a look at the compy height graph. Arnold will put it up for you.
Notice anything about it?
It’s a Gaussian distribution,
Normal curve.
But didn’t you say you introduced the compys in three batches? At six-month
 intervals?
Yes…
Then you should get a graph with peaks for each of the three separate batches
 that were introduced,
Like this.
But you didn’t get this graph,
The graph you actually got is a
 graph of a breeding population. Your compys are breeding.
I don’t see how.
They’re breeding, and so are the othnielia, the maiasaurs, the hypsys—and the
 velociraptors.
Christ,
There are raptors free in the park.
Well, it’s not that bad,
We have
 increases in just three categories—well, five categories. Very small increases in two
 of them…
What are you talking about?
Don’t you know what this
 means?
Of course I know what this means, Henry,
It means you
 screwed up.
Absolutely not.
You’ve got breeding dinosaurs out there, Henry.
But they’re all female,
It’s impossible. There must be a mistake. And
 look at the numbers. A small increase in the big animals, the maiasaurs and the
 hypsys. And big increases in the number of small animals. It just doesn’t make
 sense. It must be a mistake.
Actually not,
I think these numbers confirm
 that breeding is taking place. In seven different sites around the island.
Breeding sites?
Nests,
Assuming the average clutch is eight to twelve hatching
 eggs, these data would indicate the compys have two nests. The raptors have two
 nests. The othys have one nest. And the hypsys and the maias have one nest
 each.
Where are these nests?
We’ll have to find them,
Dinosaurs build their nests in secluded
 places.
But why are there so few big animals?
If there is a maia nest of eight
 to twelve eggs, there should be eight to twelve new maias. Not just one.
That’s right,
Except that the raptors and the compys that are
 loose in the park are probably eating the eggs of the bigger animals—and perhaps
 eating the newly hatched young, as well.
But we’ve never seen that,
Raptors are nocturnal,
Is anyone watching the park at night?
I didn’t think so,
It still doesn’t make sense,
You can’t support fifty additional
 animals on a couple of nests of eggs.
No,
I assume they are eating something else as well. Perhaps
 small rodents. Mice and rats?
Let me guess,
When you first came to the island, you had a
 problem with rats. But as time passed, the problem faded away.
Yes. That’s true…
And you never thought to investigate why.
Well, we just assumed…
Look,
the fact remains, all the animals are female. They can’t
 breed.
When you made your
 dinosaur DNA,
you were working with fragmentary pieces, is that
 right?
Yes,
In order to make a complete strand, were you ever required to include DNA
 fragments from other species?
Occasionally, yes,
It’s the only way to accomplish the job.
 Sometimes we included avian DNA, from a variety of birds, and sometimes
 reptilian DNA.
Any amphibian DNA? Specifically, frog DNA?
Possibly. I’d have to check.
Check,
I think you’ll find that holds the answer.
Frog DNA? Why frog DNA?
Listen, this is all very intriguing, but we’re forgetting
 the main question: have any animals gotten off the island?
We can’t tell from these data.
Then how are we going to find out?
There’s only one way I know,
We’ll have to find the individual
 dinosaur nests, inspect them, and count the remaining egg fragments. From that
 we may be able to determine how many animals were originally hatched. And we
 can begin to assess whether any are missing.
Even so, you won’t know if the missing animals are killed, or
 dead from natural causes, or whether they have left the island.
No,
but it’s a start. And I think we can get more information from
 an intensive look at the population graphs.
How are we going to find these nests?
Actually,
I think the computer will be able to help us with that.
Can we go back now?
I’m hungry.
Yes, let’s go,
You’ve been very patient.
You’ll be able to eat in about twenty minutes,
I’ll stay for a while,
and get photos of the stego with Dr. Harding’s
 camera. Those vesicles in the mouth will have cleared up by tomorrow.
I want to get back,
I’ll go with the kids.
I will, too,
I think I’ll stay,
and go back with Harding in his Jeep, with Dr.
 Sattler.
Fine, let’s go.
Why exactly is our lawyer staying?
I think it might have something to do with Dr. Sattler.
Really? The shorts, you think?
It’s happened before,
I want to ride in the front one
 this time, with Dr. Grant.
Unfortunately, Dr. Grant and I need to talk.
I’ll just sit and listen. I won’t say anything,
It’s a private conversation,
Tell you what, Tim,
Let them sit in the rear car by themselves.
 We’ll sit in the front car, and you can use the night-vision goggles. Have you ever
 used night-vision goggles, Tim? They’re goggles with very sensitive CCDs that
 allow you to see in the dark.
Neat,
Hey!
I want to use it, too.
No,
No fair! No fair! You get to do everything, Timmy!
I can see what the ride back is
 going to be like.
Let’s get going,
I’m about ready for dinner. And I
 could do with a nice banana daiquiri. What do you say, folks? Daiquiri sound
 good?
See you back at camp,
You must feel vindicated. About your theory.
As a matter of fact, I’m feeling a bit of dread. I suspect we are at a very
 dangerous point.
Why?
Intuition.
Do mathematicians believe in intuition?
Absolutely. Very important, intuition. Actually, I was thinking of fractals,
You know about fractals?
Not really, no.
Fractals are a kind of geometry, associated with a man named Mandelbrot.
 Unlike ordinary Euclidean geometry that everybody learns in school—squares and
 cubes and spheres—fractal geometry appears to describe real objects in the
 natural world. Mountains and clouds are fractal shapes. So fractals are probably
 related to reality. Somehow.
 “Well, Mandelbrot found a remarkable thing with his geometric tools. He found
 that things looked almost identical at different scales.
At different scales?
For example,
a big mountain, seen from far away, has a certain
 rugged mountain shape. If you get closer, and examine a small peak of the big
 mountain, it will have the same mountain shape. In fact, you can go all the way
 down the scale to a tiny speck of rock, seen under a microscope—it will have the
 same basic fractal shape as the big mountain.
I don’t really see why this is worrying you,
It’s a way of looking at things,
Mandelbrot found a sameness
 from the smallest to the largest. And this sameness of scale also occurs for
 events.
Events?
Consider cotton prices,
There are good records of cotton prices
 going back more than a hundred years. When you study fluctuations in cotton
 prices, you find that the graph of price fluctuations in the course of a day looks
 basically like the graph for a week, which looks basically like the graph for a year,
 or for ten years. And that’s how things are. A day is like a whole life. You start out
 doing one thing, but end up doing something else, plan to run an errand, but
 never get there.… And at the end of your life, your whole existence has that same
 haphazard quality, too. Your whole life has the same shape as a single day.
I guess it’s one way to look at things,
No,
It’s the only way to look at things. At least, the only way
 that is true to reality. You see, the fractal idea of sameness carries within it an
 aspect of recursion, a kind of doubling back on itself, which means that events are
 unpredictable. That they can change suddenly, and without warning.
Okay…
But we have soothed ourselves into imagining sudden change as something
 that happens outside the normal order of things. An accident, like a car crash. Or
 beyond our control, like a fatal illness. We do not conceive of sudden, radical,
 irrational change as built into the very fabric of existence. Yet it is. And chaos
 theory teaches us,
that straight linearity, which we have come to
 take for granted in everything from physics to fiction, simply does not exist.
 Linearity is an artificial way of viewing the world. Real life isn’t a series of
 interconnected events occurring one after another like beads strung on a necklace.
 Life is actually a series of encounters in which one event may change those that
 follow in a wholly unpredictable, even devastating way.
That’s a deep
 truth about the structure of our universe. But, for some reason, we insist on
 behaving as if it were not true.
What’s happened?
Why have we stopped?
Look there,
 Timmy! You see it, it’s there!
They talking about the boat?
Apparently.
I’m sorry,
but the kids are all worked up. Do you have binoculars
 here?
For what?
The little girl says she sees something on the boat. Some kind of animal,
Do you see anything?
No,
They’re low down,
Look low down.
No, nothing…
I can see them,
Near the back. Look near the back!
How can she see anything in this light?
Kids can see,
They’ve got visual acuity we forgot we ever had.
You see them now?
I see them,
What are they?
They’re raptors,
At least two. Maybe more. Juveniles.
Jesus,
That boat’s going to the mainland.
Don’t get excited. Just call the control room and tell them
 to recall the boat.
There’s something
 wrong with this one,
It’s not working.
There’s something wrong with both the radios,
I can’t
 raise the control room.
Then let’s get going,
The Land Cruisers have started again,
They’re on their way
 home.
But why did they stop?
And why can’t we talk to them?
I don’t know,
Maybe they turned off the radios in the cars.
Probably the storm,
Interference from the storm.
They’ll be here in twenty minutes,
You better call down and
 make sure the dining room is ready for them. Those kids are going to be hungry.
What’s this?
 What’s going on?
Jesus, hang that up,
You’ll screw up the data stream.
You’ve taken all the phone lines? Even the internal ones?
I’ve taken all the lines that communicate outside,
But your
 internal lines should still work.
Looks like you’ve got ’em all.
Sorry about that,
I’ll clear a couple for you at the end of the next
 transmission, in about fifteen minutes.
Looks like a long weekend for
 me. I guess I’ll go get that Coke now.
Don’t touch my console, okay?
What a slob,
Yeah,
But I guess he knows what he’s doing.
How long does it take the ship to
 reach the mainland?
Eighteen hours,
More or less. It’s pretty reliable.
It should arrive around eleven tomorrow morning.
You still can’t talk to the control room?
Not so far.
How about Harding? Can you reach him?
No, I’ve tried. He may have his radio turned off.
So we’re the only ones who know about the
 animals on the ship.
I’m trying to raise somebody,
I mean, Christ, we don’t want
 those animals on the mainland.
How long until we get back to the base?
From here, another sixteen, seventeen minutes,
Now what?
I don’t want to stop. Why did we stop?
Hey!
Probably just a power outage or something,
I’m sure the
 lights’ll be on in a minute.
What the hell?
What happened?
You lose power?
Yeah, but only power on the perimeter. Everything in this building’s working
 fine. But outside, in the park, the power is gone. Lights, TV cameras, everything.
What about the two Land Cruisers?
Stopped somewhere around the tyrannosaur paddock.
Well,
call Maintenance and let’s get the power back on.
No phones. That damn Nedry. Nedry! Where the hell is he?
Damn it!
It’s all screwed up.
Uh-oh,
We have real trouble.
What’s that?
That idiot Nedry turned off the security systems,
The whole building’s opened up. None of the doors are locked any more.
I’ll notify the guards,
That’s the least of it,
When you turn off the security, you turn off
 all the peripheral fences as well.
The fences?
The electrical fences,
They’re off, all over the island.
You mean…
That’s right,
The animals can get out now.
Probably nothing will happen, but you never know…
I better drive out and bring in the people in
 those two Land Cruisers,
Just in case.
What the hell?
Inevitably, underlying instabilities begin to appear.
Can you see us back here?
I see you.
Everything all right?
We’re fine, Dr. Grant.
Stay in the car.
We will. Don’t worry.
It’s pouring down rain. Of course we’ll stay in the car,
How long have we been sitting here?
I don’t know. Four or five minutes.
I wonder what the problem is.
Maybe a short circuit from the rain.
But it happened before the rain really started.
But there’s no lightning,
 right?
What was that? We didn’t quite read that.
Just my sister talking.
Oh.
Hell of a rain,
It’s really coming down.
I’m hungry.
I know that, Lex,
but we’re stuck here, sweetie. The cars run on
 electricity in buried cables in the road.
Stuck for how long?
Until they fix the electricity.
Jesus!
What was it?
It was huge, it was big as the car—
Tim! Are you there?
Yes, I’m here.
Did you see it, Tim?
No,
I missed it.
What the hell was it?
Are you wearing the night-vision goggles, Tim?
Yes. I’ll watch,
Was it the tyrannosaur?
I don’t think so. It was in the road.
But you didn’t see it?
No.
One one thousand… two one thousand…
Oh, no…
Take it easy, honey,
It’s just lightning.
Tim?
Yes, Dr. Grant.
You see what it is?
Yes, Dr. Grant.
What’s going on right now?
Nothing,
Just
 standing on the other side of the fence.
I can’t see much from here, Tim.
I can see fine, Dr. Grant. It’s just standing there.
Okay.
Jesus Christ,
Jesus Christ,
Bad language,
Hey,
where are you going?
He left!
Where did he go? He left us alone!
Shut the door,
He left us! He left
 us!
Tim, what’s going on?
Tim?
Tim, what’s happening?
He left us, he left us!
Lex, close the door!
Tim!
I’m here, Dr. Grant.
What’s going on?
Regis ran away,
He what?
He ran away. I think he saw that the fence isn’t electrified,
The fence isn’t electrified?
Did he say the fence
 isn’t electrified?
Lex,
close the door.
He left us, he left us!
Timmy!
Tim! Are you there?
I’m here.
Lock the doors. Get in the
 middle of the car. And shut up.
Tim.
Yes, Dr. Grant.
Stay in the car. Stay down. Be quiet. Don’t move, and don’t make noise.
Okay.
You should be all right. I don’t think it can open the car.
Okay.
Just stay quiet, so you don’t arouse its attention any more than necessary.
Okay.
You hear that, Lex?
Timmy…
It’s okay,
I don’t think it saw us.
Lex?
Lex!
Tim!
Tim, are you there?
We’re okay,
Timmy!
Timmy!
Jesus! What happened to the car?
What happened?
I don’t know.
Can you see?
Not much, no,
Was it the girl?
It sounded like the girl.
It did, yes.
Was it?
I don’t know,
You know, at times like this one feels, well, perhaps extinct
 animals should be left extinct. Don’t you have that feeling now?
Yes,
Umm. Do you, ah, have any suggestions about what we do now?
I can’t think of a thing,
Oh damn,
Will you look at that.
Must have been the lightning,
Hell of a tree.
We can’t get past it,
I better tell Arnold in control.
Hello, John. Are you there, John?
I don’t understand,
The
 radio lines seem to be down.
It must be the storm,
I suppose,
Try the Land Cruisers,
Nothing,
They’re probably back to camp by now, and outside the
 range of our little set. In any case, I don’t think we should stay here. It’ll be hours
 before Maintenance gets a crew out here to move that tree.
What’re you going to do?
Go back to the turnout, and get onto the maintenance road. Fortunately there’s
 a second road system,
We have one road for visitors, and a
 second road for animal handlers and feed trucks and so on. We’ll drive back on
 that maintenance road. It’s a little longer. And not so scenic. But you may find it
 interesting. If the rain lets up, we’ll get a glimpse of some of the animals at night.
 We should be back in thirty, forty minutes,
If I don’t get lost.
Somebody took the damned Jeep,
Have you talked to the Land Cruisers yet?
Can’t raise them on the radio,
I have to use this, because the
 main board is down. It’s weak, but it ought to work. I’ve tried on all six channels. I
 know they have radios in the cars, but they’re not answering.
That’s not good,
If you want to go out there, take one of the maintenance vehicles.
I would,
but they’re all in the east garage, more than a mile
 from here. Where’s Harding?
I assume he’s on his way back.
Then he’ll pick up the people in the Land Cruisers on his way.
I assume so.
Anybody tell Hammond the kids aren’t back yet?
Hell no,
I don’t want that son of a bitch running around here,
 screaming at me. Everything’s all right, for the moment. The Land Cruisers are
 just stuck in the rain. They can sit a while, until Harding brings them back. Or
 until we find Nedry, and make that little bastard turn the systems back on.
You can’t get them back on?
I’ve been trying. But Nedry’s done something to the
 system. I can’t figure out what, but if I have to go into the code itself, that’ll take
 hours. We need Nedry. We’ve got to find the son of a bitch right away.
You have a problem,
 Dennis,
More coffee?
No, thank you,
I couldn’t eat
 anything more.
Now then, Henry, you must save room for ice cream,
María makes the most wonderful ginger ice cream.
All right
Your monitor’s out,
Is it?
Must be the storm.
I’ll just check with John in control.
Lines must be down,
Or maybe
 Nedry’s still doing data transmission. He has quite a few bugs to fix this weekend.
 Nedry’s a genius in his way, but we had to press him quite hard, toward the end,
 to make sure he got things right.
Perhaps I should go to the control room and check,
No, no,
There’s no reason. If there were any problem, we’d
 hear about it. Ah.
You must have just a little, Henry,
It’s made with fresh
 ginger, from the eastern part of the island. It’s an old man’s vice, ice cream. But
 still…
That was close,
I hope the storm isn’t
 frightening the children.
I shouldn’t think so,
But I can’t help
 but hold some fears about this park, Henry.
What kind of fears?
You know, Jurassic Park’s really made for children. The children of the world
 love dinosaurs, and the children are going to delight—just delight—in this place.
 Their little faces will shine with the joy of finally seeing these wonderful animals.
 But I am afraid… I may not live to see it, Henry. I may not live to see the joy on
 their faces.
I think there are other problems, too,
But none so pressing on my mind as this,
that I may not live
 to see their shining, delighted faces. This is our triumph, this park. We have done
 what we set out to do. And, you remember, our original intent was to use the
 newly emerging technology of genetic engineering to make money. A lot of money.
I’m familiar with this, John—
If you were going to start a bioengineering company, Henry, what would you
 do? Would you make products to help mankind, to fight illness and disease? Dear
 me, no. That’s a terrible idea. A very poor use of new technology.
Yet, you’ll remember,
the original
 genetic engineering companies, like Genentech and Cetus, were all started to
 make pharmaceuticals. New drugs for mankind. Noble, noble purpose.
 Unfortunately, drugs face all kinds of barriers. FDA testing alone takes five to
 eight years—if you’re lucky. Even worse, there are forces at work in the
 marketplace. Suppose you make a miracle drug for cancer or heart disease—as
 Genentech did. Suppose you now want to charge a thousand dollars or two
 thousand dollars a dose. You might imagine that is your privilege. After all, you
 invented the drug, you paid to develop and test it; you should be able to charge
 whatever you wish. But do you really think that the government will let you do
 that? No, Henry, they will not. Sick people aren’t going to pay a thousand dollars a
 dose for needed medication—they won’t be grateful, they’ll be outraged. Blue Cross
 isn’t going to pay it. They’ll scream highway robbery. So something will happen.
 Your patent application will be denied. Your permits will be delayed. Something
 will force you to see reason—and to sell your drug at a lower cost. From a business
 standpoint, that makes helping mankind a very risky business. Personally, I would
 never help mankind.
Now,
think how different it is when you’re making
 entertainment. Nobody needs entertainment. That’s not a matter for government
 intervention. If I charge five thousand dollars a day for my park, who is going to
 stop me? After all, nobody needs to come here. And, far from being highway
 robbery, a costly price tag actually increases the appeal of the park. A visit
 becomes a status symbol, and all Americans love that. So do the Japanese, and of
 course they have far more money.
She’s
 not from here, you know,
She’s Haitian. Her mother is French. But in
 any case, Henry, you will recall that the original purpose behind pointing my
 company in this direction in the first place—was to have freedom from government
 intervention, anywhere in the world.
Speaking of the rest of the world …
We have already leased a large tract in the Azores, for
 Jurassic Park Europe. And you know we long ago obtained an island near Guam,
 for Jurassic Park Japan. Construction on the next two Jurassic Parks will begin
 early next year. They will all be open within four years. At that time, direct
 revenues will exceed ten billion dollars a year, and merchandising, television, and
 ancillary rights should double that. I see no reason to bother with children’s pets,
 which I’m told Lew Dodgson thinks we’re planning to make.
Twenty billion dollars a year,
That’s speaking conservatively,
There’s no reason
 to speculate wildly. More ice cream, Henry?
Did you find him?
No, Mr. Arnold.
Find him.
I don’t think he’s in the building, Mr. Arnold.
Then look in the lodge,
look in the maintenance building, look in
 the utility shed, look everywhere, but just find him.
The thing is…
Mr. Nedry’s the fat man, is that right?
That’s right,
He’s fat. A fat slob.
Well, Jimmy down in the main lobby said he saw the fat man go into the
 garage.
Into the garage? When?
About ten, fifteen minutes ago.
Jesus,
Sorry,
Don’t they see us?
Not exactly, no,
Of course, in a literal sense they do see us, but
 we don’t really mean anything to them. We hardly ever take cars out at night, and
 so they have no experience of them. We are just a strange, smelly object in their
 environment. Representing no threat, and therefore no interest. I’ve occasionally
 been out at night, visiting a sick animal, and on my way back these fellows
 blocked the road for an hour or more.
What do you do?
Play a recorded tyrannosaur roar. That gets them moving. Not
 that they care much about tyrannosaurs. These apatosaurs are so big they don’t
 really have any predators. They can break a tyrannosaur’s neck with a swipe of
 their tail. And they know it. So does the tyrannosaur.
But they do see us. I mean, if we were to get out of the car…
They probably wouldn’t react. Dinosaurs have excellent
 visual acuity, but they have a basic amphibian visual system: it’s attuned to
 movement. They don’t see unmoving things well at all.
I think we can continue now,
I suspect you may find there are pressures on your park, just as there
 are pressures on Genentech’s drugs.
I can’t see how,
The scientists may wish to constrain you. Even to stop you.
Well, they can’t do that,
You know
 why the scientists would try to do that? It’s because they want to do research, of
 course. That’s all they ever want to do, is research. Not to accomplish anything.
 Not to make any progress. Just do research. Well, they have a surprise coming to
 them.
I wasn’t thinking of that,
I’m sure it would be interesting for the scientists, to do
 research. But you arrive at the point where these animals are simply too expensive
 to be used for research. This is wonderful technology, Henry, but it’s also
 frightfully expensive technology. The fact is, it can only be supported as
 entertainment.
That’s just the way it is.
But if there are attempts to close down—
Face the damn facts, Henry,
This isn’t America. This
 isn’t even Costa Rica. This is my island. I own it. And nothing is going to stop me
 from opening Jurassic Park to all the children of the world.
Or, at
 least, to the rich ones. And I tell you, they’ll love it.
We’re near the jungle river now,
It’s off there
 somewhere to our left.
Well, you’re getting quite a show tonight,
Those are compys.
Odd,
Wonder where they’re off to? Compys don’t usually move
 at night, you know. They climb up in a tree and wait for daylight.
Then why are they out now?
I can’t imagine. You know compys are scavengers, like buzzards. They’re
 attracted to a dying animal, and they have tremendously sensitive smell. They can
 smell a dying animal for miles.
Then they’re going to a dying animal?
Dying, or already dead.
Should we follow them?
I’d be curious,
Yes, why not? Let’s go see where they’re going.
Oh shit,
Oh shit. Oh shit.
Oh shit. Oh shit.
Get away!
Go on! Go!
Lex!
Lex!
Lex!
How long has it been?
Half an hour.
Harding’s Jeep should be back here by now.
I’m sure they’ll arrive any minute now.
Still no sign of Nedry?
No. Not yet.
I’m going to
 distribute these to people in the building.
Take the
 charger, too. These are our emergency radios, but nobody had them plugged in,
 naturally. Let it charge about twenty minutes, and then try and raise the cars.
Lex, it’s me. Tim.
Come on out.
Lex,
if you come out, I’ll let you wear these night goggles.
Look what I have,
It’s your ball, Lex. I
 found your ball.
So what.
It must be uncomfortable in there. Cold, too.
 Wouldn’t you like to come out?
Why not?
There’s aminals out there.
aminals
The aminals are gone,
There’s a big one. A Tyrannosaurus rex.
He’s gone.
Where did he go?
I don’t know, but he’s not around here now,
I’m just going to
 sit here,
And rest.
Is Daddy out there?
No,
He’s back at home, Lex.
Is Mommy?
No, Lex.
Are there any grown-ups out there?
Not yet. But I’m sure they’ll come soon. They’re probably on their way right
 now.
Where’s Dr. Grant?
I don’t know.
Well, he was here before.
He was? When?
Before,
I saw him when I was in the pipe.
Where’d he go?
How am I supposed to know?
Hellooo. Hell-oooo! Dr. Grant? Dr. Grant!
Thank God,
I’ve been looking for you.
Hellooo!
Hello! Dr. Grant!
I told you I was,
Well, I had to check.
I’m hungry,
Me, too,
We’ve got to get ourselves back to civilization. And we’ve
 got to tell them about the ship.
We’re the only ones who know?
Yes. We’ve got to get back and tell them.
Then let’s walk down the road toward the hotel,
That way we’ll meet them when they come for us.
I don’t think so, Tim. The road has high fences on both sides,
If
 one of the tyrannosaurs is farther down on the road, we’ll be trapped.
Then should we wait here?
Yes,
Let’s just wait here until someone comes.
I’m hungry,
I hope it won’t be very long,
I don’t want to stay here,
Stay here,
Stay here,
Don’t leave me, don’t leave me here, you guys—
Get away! Back off! Go on, back off!
Yeah! You heard me! Back off! Get away!
Hey!
You
 stupid—back! Back! You heard me—back!
Back!
 You! Back!
Cut that out!
Oh no,
Is that a
 light?
Could be,
Looks almost like headlights.
—you
 there?
Ah, there he is,
Finally.
Yes, John,
 we’re here. We’re near the river, following the compys. It’s quite interesting.
—eed your car—
What’d he say?
Something about a car,
I think he said he needs your car.
John? Are you there? We can’t read you very well.
 John?
—where are—ou—
We’re one mile north of the hypsy paddock. Near the river, following some
 compys.
No—damn well—get back here—ow!
Sounds like he’s got a problem,
Maybe we should go back.
John’s frequently got a problem. You know how engineers
 are. They want everything to go by the book.
John? Say again, please…
—Muldoo—need your car—ow—
 
Is he saying Muldoon needs our car?
That’s what it sounded like,
Well, that doesn’t make any sense,
—other—stuck—Muldoon wants—car—
I get it,
The other cars are stuck on the road in the storm, and
 Muldoon wants to go get them.
Why doesn’t Muldoon take the other car?
John? Tell Muldoon to take the other car. It’s in the garage.
—not—listen—crazy bastards—car—
I said, it’s in the garage, John. The car is in
 the garage.
—edry has—ssing—one—
I’m afraid this isn’t getting us anywhere,
All right, John. We’re
 coming in now.
I just wish I
 understood what the urgency is.
God damn it, Arnold, you son of a bitch! God damn it, get this park back on
 track! Now! Get my grandkids back here! Now!
Well, Mr. Hammond,
Muldoon’s on his way out right now, to do
 exactly that.
Why don’t you go downstairs to the cafeteria,
and get a cup of
 coffee? We’ll call you when we have more news.
I don’t want a Malcolm Effect here,
Don’t worry about a Malcolm Effect,
Will you let me go to work?
God damn you,
I’ll call you, sir, when I have news from Muldoon,
7btotal CoreSysop %4 [vig. 7*tty]\
7bvoid MeterVis $303\
7bd\
7bpd\
What are you doing, John?
Checking the code.
By inspection? That’ll take forever.
Tell me,
Tell me.
How much farther?
Two, maybe three miles.
It’s been an hour,
An
 hour, with no word from the other cars.
But they have radios,
We haven’t been able to raise them,
If I was sitting in a car for an hour in the rain, I’d sure try to
 use the radio to call for somebody.
So would I,
You really think something could have happened to
 them?
Chances are,
that they’re perfectly fine, but I’ll be happier
 when I finally see them. Should be any minute now.
Hold it,
What is it?
It’s a leg,
Jesus.
Gennaro.
What?
Move. You’re blocking the light.
Torn at the joint line,
Didn’t bite
 it—twisted and ripped it. Just ripped his leg off.
No question what happened,
The T-rex got him.
You all right? Can you go on?
Yes,
I can go on.
I guess we better
 bring this along,
Doesn’t seem right to leave it here. Christ, it’s going to
make a mess of the car. See if there’s anything in the back, will you? A tarp or
 newspaper …
Two tarps,
Give me one,
Just put it in the back,
If there’s a way to wedge it, you know, so it doesn’t roll around …
Okay.
Jesus,
Where’s the other car?
There.
What’s it doing there?
The T-rex threw it.
Threw it?
Let’s get this over with,
I wouldn’t worry,
It’s very unlikely we’ll find anyone.
No?
No,
I’ll be damned,
Empty?
Not quite,
It’s a watch,
What is it, a watch?
Yes. And there’s a radio, but it’s broken.
Is that significant?
Yes. And there’s something else…
One of the kids may still be alive,
What makes you think so?
The watch,
The watch proves it.
Crystal is cracked,
That’s right,
And the band is uninjured.
Which means?
The kid took it off.
That could have happened anytime,
Anytime before the
 attack.
No,
Those LCD crystals are tough. It takes a powerful blow to
 break them. The watch face was shattered during the attack.
So the kid took his watch off.
Think about it,
If you were being attacked by a tyrannosaur,
 would you stop to take your watch off?
Maybe it was torn off.
It’s almost impossible to tear a watch off somebody’s wrist, without tearing the
 hand off, too. Anyway, the band is intact. No,
The kid took it off
 himself. He looked at his watch, saw it was broken, and took it off. He had the
 time to do that.
When?
It could only have been after the attack,
The kid must have
 been in this car, after the attack. And the radio was broken, so he left it behind,
 too. He’s a bright kid, and he knew they weren’t useful.
If he’s so bright,
where’d he go? Because I’d stay right here and
 wait to be picked up.
Yes,
But perhaps he couldn’t stay here. Maybe the
 tyrannosaur came back. Or some other animal. Anyway, something made him
 leave.
Then where’d he go?
Let’s see if we can determine that,
You notice these prints?
What prints?
These footprints—see them, coming toward us from up the road?—and they’re
 adult-size prints. Some kind of rubber-sole shoe. Notice the distinctive tread
 pattern…
You can see,
the adult prints come to here, where they’re
 joined by other prints. Small, and medium-size… moving around in circles,
 overlapping… almost as if they’re standing together, talking… But now here they
 are, they seem to be running…
There. Into the park.
You can see whatever you want in this mud.
Say what you like, I’ll wager one of the kids survived. And maybe both.
 Perhaps even an adult as well, if these big prints belong to someone other than
 Regis. We’ve got to search the park.
Tonight?
What was that little girl
 wearing?
Christ,
I don’t know.
Listen,
I think we better—
Shhh,
It’s just the wind,
What is it?
It’s Malcolm,
I can’t find the injury,
Head okay,
 chest, arms …
He put a tourniquet on.
Lex,
Lex… went… Lex…
Who’s Lex?
The little girl,
We’ve got to get him back,
You going to leave here without the kids?
If they went into the park, it’s twenty square miles,
The only way we can find anything out there is with the motion sensors. If
 the kids are alive and moving around, the motion sensors will pick them up, and
 we can go right to them and bring them back. But if we don’t take Dr. Malcolm
 back right now, he’ll die.
Then we have to go back,
Yes, I think so.
Are you going to tell Hammond the
 kids are missing?
No,
You are.
So Muldoon believes the children are
 somewhere in the park?
He thinks so, yes.
Then I’m sure we’ll find them.
I hope so,
Oh, I am sure we’ll find them. After all, I keep telling everyone, this park is
 made for kids.
Just so you understand that they’re missing, sir.
Missing?
Of course I know they’re missing. I’m not senile.
Look, Donald,
Let’s not get
 carried away. We’ve had a little breakdown from the storm or whatever, and as a
 result we’ve suffered a regrettable, unfortunate accident. And that’s all that’s
 happened. We’re dealing with it. Arnold will get the computers cleaned up.
 Muldoon will pick up the kids, and I have no doubt he’ll be back with them by the
 time we finish this ice cream. So let’s just wait and see what develops, shall we?
Whatever you say, sir,
Why?
Because I think Nedry did something to the code,
That’s why I’m
 checking it.
All right,
But have you tried your options?
Like what?
I don’t know. Aren’t the safety systems still running?
Keychecks? All
 that?
Jesus,
They must be. Safety systems can’t
 be turned off except at the main panel.
Well,
if Keychecks is active, you can trace what he did.
I sure as hell can,
That’s it?
He was screwing around here for hours, it seemed
 like.
Probably just killing time,
Until he finally decided to get down to it.
Maybe he was trying to see if there were changes, before he went in,
Maybe,
At
 least we can see what he did.
He’s trying to turn off the safety systems,
He doesn’t want anybody
 to see what he’s about to do.
Exactly,
And apparently he doesn’t know it’s no longer possible
 to turn the systems off except by manually flipping switches on the main board.
Finally,
here’s the kicker.
What the hell is that?
White rabbit? Is that supposed to be his
 private joke?
It’s marked as an object,
object
Let’s see where it is in the code,
Maybe we can figure out what it
 does.
It doesn’t exist,
Then search the code listing,
There it is,
It’s not an object, it’s a command.
7bssm.dt\
7bitm.dd2\
7bssd.itl\
7bitm.dd4\
7bd\
7blimit .04\
7blimit .2-var(szh)\
7bsecurity, perimeter\
7bmaxRange+setlim\
7bmaxRange-setlim/2\
Son of a bitch,
It isn’t a bug in the code at all.
No,
It’s a trap door. The fat bastard put in what looked like an
 object call, but it’s actually a command that links the security and perimeter
 systems and then turns them off. Gives him complete access to every place in the
 park.
Then we must be able to turn them back on,
Yeah, we must.
All we have to do is figure out
 the command. I’ll run an execution trace on the link,
We’ll see where
 that gets us.
Meanwhile,
meanwhile, that somebody
 went into the freezer about an hour ago. I think I better go count my embryos.
Alan?
I’m sorry, but we need your help,
The Land Cruisers
 were attacked an hour ago. We brought Malcolm back, but he’s in shock. He’s got
 a very bad injury to his leg. He’s still unconscious, but I put him in the bed in his
 room. Harding is on his way over.
Harding?
What about the others?
We haven’t found the others yet, Dr. Sattler,
Oh, my God.
But we think that Dr. Grant and the children are still alive. We think they went
 into the park, Dr. Sattler.
Went into the park?
We think so. Meanwhile, Malcolm needs help. I’ve called Harding.
Shouldn’t you call the doctor?
There’s no doctor on the island. Harding’s the best we have.
But surely you can call for a doctor—
No.
Phone lines are down. We can’t call out.
What’s that?
Nothing. Just go to Malcolm’s room, and help Harding, if you will.
I’m tired,
Carry me, Dr. Grant.
You’re too big to carry,
But I’m tired,
Okay, Lex,
Oof, you’re heavy.
How you holding up, Tim?
Okay,
But I think we might be in the tyrannosaur area.
I’m pretty sure we are. I hope we get out soon.
You going to go into the woods?
Yes,
I think we can navigate by the numbers on the motion
 sensors.
At least we’re going the right way,
Good for you,
My parents are getting a divorce,
Uh-huh,
My dad moved out last month. He has his own place in Mill Valley now.
Uh-huh.
He never carries my sister any more. He never even picks her up.
And he says you have dinosaurs on the brain,
Yeah.
You miss him?
Not really,
Sometimes. She misses him more.
Who, your mother?
No, Lex. My mom has a boyfriend. She knows him from work.
Have you met him?
Yeah.
How is he?
He’s okay,
He’s younger than my dad, but he’s bald.
How does he treat you?
I don’t know. Okay. I think he just tries to get on my good side. I don’t know
 what’s going to happen. Sometimes my mom says we’ll have to sell the house and
 move. Sometimes he and my mom fight, late at night. I sit in my room and play
 with my computer, but I can still hear it.
Uh-huh,
Are you divorced?
No,
My wife died a long time ago.
And now you’re with Dr. Sattler?
No. She’s my student.
You mean she’s still in school?
Graduate school, yes.
You have children?
No,
Are you going to marry Dr. Sattler?
No, she’s marrying a nice doctor in Chicago sometime next year.
Oh,
Then who are you going to marry?
I don’t think I’m going to marry anybody,
Me neither,
Are we going to walk all night?
I don’t think I can,
We’ll have to stop, at least for a few hours.
We’re okay. We’ve got almost fifteen hours before we have to
 be back. Before the ship reaches the mainland.
Where are we going to stop?
Tim, can you hold your sister for me? I’m going to climb a tree and have a look
 around.
What’s the matter?
I heard an aminal.
It won’t bother us. Are you awake now? Come on.
Can you climb it?
Sure. Easy.
But I bet Timmy can’t.
You shut up.
Timmy’s afraid of heights.
I am not.
Are so.
Am not.
Then come and get me.
You okay
 with the fence, Tim?
Sure.
Want some help?
Timmy’s a fraidy-cat,
What a stupid jerk,
It’s freezing,
At least I got Timmy over the fence for you,
He really is scared most
 times.
Thanks for your help,
Eww,
It won’t hurt you, Lex.
Let’s go,
 kids.
Is he around
 here?
No,
We’re in another section of park from him.
What is this place?
It’s safe,
Come on, you guys.
I think you can do it, Dr. Grant.
I wonder if there’s anything to eat,
Just hay.
Got you, you little son of a bitch.
What is it?
7bdat.dt\
7bitm.temp\
7bdat.itl\
7bitm.temp\
7blimit.04\
7blimit .2-var(dzh)\
7bsecurity, perimeter\
7bsecurity, perimeter\
7bdat.dt\
7bitm.temp\
7bdat.itl\
7bitm.temp\
7blimit .04\
7blimit .2-var(szh)\
That’s it,
That’s what?
I finally found the command to restore the original code. The command called
 ‘fini.obj’ resets the linked parameters, namely the fence and the power.
Good,
But it does something else,
It then erases the code lines that
 refer to it. It destroys all evidence it was ever there. Pretty slick.
I don’t know much about computers.
Well, watch this,
7bdat.dt\
7bitm.temp\
7bdat.itl\
7bitm.temp\
7blimit .04\
7blimit .2-var(dzh)\
7bdat.dt\
7bitm.temp\
7bdat.itl\
7bitm.temp\
7blimit .04\
7blimit .2-var(szh)\
Look!
Hot damn,
Does this mean the electrified fences are back on?
You bet it does,
It’ll take a few seconds to get up to full power,
 because we’ve got fifty miles of fence out there, and the generator has to charge
 the capacitors along the way. But in half a minute we’ll be back in business.
And the motion sensors?
Yes, them, too. It’ll be a few minutes while the computer counts. But
 everything’s working,
Half past nine, and we’ve got the whole damn
 thing back up and running.
Not bad,
There’s
 only three cutouts in the whole park. Much better than I hoped for.
Cutouts?
The fence automatically cuts out short-circuited sections,
You
 can see a big one here, in sector twelve, near the main road.
That’s where the rex knocked the fence down,
Exactly. And another one is here in sector eleven. Near the sauropod
 maintenance building.
Why would that section be out?
God knows,
Probably storm damage or a fallen tree. We can
 check it on the monitor in a while. The third one is over there by the jungle river.
 Don’t know why that should be out, either.
What’s all this?
The animals. The motion sensors are working again, and the computer’s
 starting to identify the location of all the animals in the park. And anybody else,
 too.
You mean Grant and the kids…
Yes. We’ve reset our search number above four hundred. So, if they’re out there
 moving around,
the motion sensors will pick them up as additional
 animals.
But I don’t see any additionals yet.
Why does it take so long?
You have to realize, Mr. Gennaro,
that there’s a lot of extraneous
 movement out there. Branches blowing in the wind, birds flying around, all kinds
 of stuff. The computer has to eliminate all the background movement. It may
 take—ah. Okay. Count’s finished.
You don’t see the kids?
No,
at the
 moment, there are no additionals on the map at all. Everything out there has been
 accounted for as a dinosaur. They’re probably up in a tree, or somewhere else
 where we can’t see them. I wouldn’t worry yet. Several animals haven’t shown up,
like the big rex. That’s probably because it’s sleeping somewhere and not moving.
 The people may be sleeping, too. We just don’t know.
We better get on with it,
We need to repair
 the fences, and get the animals back into their paddocks. According to that
 computer, we’ve got five to herd back to the proper paddocks. I’ll take the
 maintenance crews out now.
You may want to see how Dr. Malcolm is doing. Tell
 Dr. Harding that Muldoon will need him in about an hour to supervise the
 herding. And I’ll notify Mr. Hammond that we’re starting our final cleanup.
There’s a kitchen at the other end,
We’re using that to
 boil water for the dressings.
How is he?
Surprisingly good,
So the other man says, ‘I’ll tell you frankly, I didn’t like it, Bill. I went back to
 toilet paper!’ 
It’s not bad, is it?
Ah, Mr. Gennaro. You’ve come to see
 me. Now you know what happens from trying to get a leg up on the situation.
He’s on fairly high doses of morphine.
Not high enough, I can tell you,
Christ, he’s stingy with his
 drugs. Did they find the others yet?
No, not yet,
But I’m glad to see you doing so well.
How else should I be doing,
with a compound fracture of the
 leg that is likely septic and beginning to smell rather, ah, pungent? But I always
 say, if you can’t keep a sense of humor…
Do you remember what happened?
Of course I remember,
Do you think you could be bitten by a
 Tyrannosaurus rex and it would escape your mind? No indeed, I’ll tell you, you’d
 remember it for the rest of your life. In my case, perhaps not a terribly long time.
 But, still—yes, I remember.
It was my own damned fault, he was too close, but I was
 panicked. In any case, he picked me up in his jaws.
How?
Torso,
Lifted me up in his jaws, shook me
 bloody hard, and threw me down. And I was fine—terrified of course, but, still and
 all, fine—right up to the moment he threw me. I broke the leg in the fall. But the
 bite was not half bad.
Considering.
Most of the big carnivores don’t have strong jaws. The real power
 is in the neck musculature. The jaws just hold on, while they use the neck to twist
 and rip. But with a small creature like Dr. Malcolm, the animal would just shake
 him, and then toss him.
I’m afraid that’s right,
I doubt I’d have survived, except the big
 chap’s heart wasn’t in it. To tell the truth, he struck me as a rather clumsy
 attacker of anything less than an automobile or a small apartment building.
You think he attacked halfheartedly?
It pains me to say it,
but I don’t honestly feel I had his full
 attention. He had mine, of course. But, then, he weighs eight tons. I don’t.
They’re going to repair the fences now.
 Arnold says Muldoon will need your help herding animals.
Okay,
So long as you leave me Dr. Sattler, and ample morphine,
And
 so long as we do not have a Malcolm Effect here.
What’s a Malcolm Effect?
Modesty forbids me,
from telling you the details of a
 phenomenon named after me.
Don’t be fooled,
It’s
 a great strain on him. When will you have a helicopter here?
A helicopter?
He needs surgery on that leg. Make sure they send for a helicopter, and get him
 off this island.
No, no,
Just the ropes, Carlos. We don’t need to cut it.
Señor Muldoon,
did you see
 the lights?
What lights?
I saw it as we were coming out.
 It is there, very faint. You see it? It looks like the lights of a car, but it is not
 moving.
We’ll worry about it later,
Right now let’s just get that tree
 off the fence.
The Malcolm Effect?
You worried about that?
I’m just curious,
You mean you want me to tell you why Ian Malcolm is wrong?
Sure.
It’s technical.
Try me.
Okay,
Chaos theory describes nonlinear systems. It’s now
 become a very broad theory that’s been used to study everything from the stock
 market to heart rhythms. A very fashionable theory. Very trendy to apply it to any
 complex system where there might be unpredictability. Okay?
Okay,
Ian Malcolm is a mathematician specializing in chaos theory. Quite amusing
 and personable, but basically what he does, besides wear black, is use computers
 to model the behavior of complex systems. And John Hammond loves the latest
 scientific fad, so he asked Malcolm to model the system at Jurassic Park. Which
 Malcolm did. Malcolm’s models are all phase-space shapes on a computer screen.
 Have you seen them?
No,
Well, they look like a weird twisted ship’s propeller. According to Malcolm, the
 behavior of any system follows the surface of the propeller. You with me?
Not exactly,
Let’s say I put a drop of water on the back of
 my hand. That drop is going to run off my hand. Maybe it’ll run toward my wrist.
 Maybe it’ll run toward my thumb, or down between my fingers. I don’t know for
 sure where it will go, but I know it will run somewhere along the surface of my
 hand. It has to.
Okay,
Chaos theory treats the behavior of a whole system like a drop of water moving
 on a complicated propeller surface. The drop may spiral down, or slip outward
toward the edge. It may do many different things, depending. But it will always
 move along the surface of the propeller.
Okay.
Malcolm’s models tend to have a ledge, or a sharp incline, where the drop of
 water will speed up greatly. He modestly calls this speeding-up movement the
 Malcolm Effect. The whole system could suddenly collapse. And that was what he
 said about Jurassic Park. That it had inherent instability.
Inherent instability,
And what did you do when you got his
 report?
We disagreed with it, and ignored it, of course,
Was that wise?
It’s self-evident,
We’re dealing with living systems, after all. This
 is life, not computer models.
Careful! Careful!
Watch it! Easy!
Mr. Hammond,
Please.
Well, they should be careful—
They are being careful,
How is she?
She’s fine,
She’s only dropped a degree and a half.
That’s too much,
Too deep.
You don’t want her waking up and jumping off the truck,
All aboard,
Let’s get this girl back to her paddock.
Living systems,
are not like mechanical systems. Living systems
 are never in equilibrium. They are inherently unstable. They may seem stable, but
 they’re not. Everything is moving and changing. In a sense, everything is on the
 edge of collapse.
But lots of things don’t change; body temperature
 doesn’t change, all kinds of other—
Body temperature changes constantly,
Constantly. It changes
 cyclically over twenty-four hours, lowest in the morning, highest in the afternoon.
 It changes with mood, with disease, with exercise, with outside temperature, with
 food. It continuously fluctuates up and down. Tiny jiggles on a graph. Because, at
 any moment, some forces are pushing temperature up, and other forces are
 pulling it down. It is inherently unstable. And every other aspect of living systems
 is like that, too.
So you’re saying…
Malcolm’s just another theoretician,
Sitting in his office, he made
 a nice mathematical model, and it never occurred to him that what he saw as
 defects were actually necessities. Look: when I was working on missiles, we dealt
 with something called ‘resonant yaw.’ Resonant yaw meant that, even though a
 missile was only slightly unstable off the pad, it was hopeless. It was inevitably
 going to go out of control, and it couldn’t be brought back. That’s a feature of
 mechanical systems. A little wobble can get worse until the whole system
 collapses. But those same little wobbles are essential to a living system. They
 mean the system is healthy and responsive. Malcolm never understood that.
Are you sure he didn’t understand that? He seems pretty clear on the
 difference between living and nonliving—
Look,
The proof is right here.
In less
 than an hour,
the park will all be back on line. The only thing I’ve got
 left to clear is the telephones. For some reason, they’re still out. But everything
 else will be working. And that’s not theoretical. That’s a fact.
Back, everybody,
Get back.
She’s drooling,
Temporary,
It’ll stop.
Why isn’t she hopping?
She will,
It’ll take her about an hour to recover fully. She’s
 fine.
Okay, boys, let’s go deal with the stego.
Control. This is Muldoon. We’re ready to begin repair.
All right,
Shutting out your section now.
Let’s finish this up. I want to get to those other sections of
 fence.
What’s happening now?
I’m trying to get the phones back. So we can call
 about Malcolm.
No, I mean out there.
It looks as if they’re about done with the
 animals, and the two sections. Just as I told you, the park is back in hand. With
 no catastrophic Malcolm Effect. In fact, there’s just that third section of fence.…
Arnold.
Yes?
Have you seen this bloody fence?
Just a minute.
That’s the sauropod
 maintenance building,
It’s one of the utility structures we use
 for equipment, feed storage, and so on. We have them all around the park, in each
 of the paddocks.
We’re turning the
 camera now to get a look at the fence.…
Huh,
Looks like the rex went into the sauropod paddock.
Fine dining tonight.
We’ll have to get him out of there,
With what?
We haven’t got anything to use on a rex. I’ll fix this
 fence, but I’m not going in there until daylight.
Hammond won’t like it.
We’ll discuss it when I get back,
How many sauropods will the rex kill?
Probably just one,
Sauropods are big; the rex can feed off a
 single kill for several days.
We have to go out and get him tonight,
I’m not going in there until daylight.
Are you forgetting you work for me?
No, Mr. Hammond, I’m not forgetting. But that’s a full-grown adult tyrannosaur
 out there. How do you plan to get him?
We have tranquilizer guns.
We have tranquilizer guns that shoot a twenty-cc dart,
Fine for
 an animal that weighs four or five hundred pounds. That tyrannosaur weighs eight
 tons. It wouldn’t even feel it.
You ordered a larger weapon.…
I ordered three larger weapons, Mr. Hammond, but you cut the requisition, so
 we got only one. And it’s gone. Nedry took it when he left.
That was pretty stupid. Who let that happen?
Nedry’s not my problem, Mr. Hammond,
You’re saying,
that, as of this moment, there is no way to
 stop the tyrannosaur?
That’s exactly what I’m saying,
That’s ridiculous,
It’s your park, Mr. Hammond. You didn’t want anybody to be able to injure
 your precious dinosaurs. Well, now you’ve got a rex in with the sauropods, and
 there’s not a damned thing you can do about it.
Just a minute,
I guess you don’t have control of the park yet,
 after all.
Don’t kid yourself,
We have the park.
 It’ll be dawn in a couple of hours. We may lose a couple of dinos before we get the
 rex out of there, but, believe me, we have the park.
Chew your food,
Don’t be a piggy, Ralph.
That’s better,
There’s plenty of hay, don’t worry.
You like hay, don’t you, Ralph?
This is Ralph,
He’s my friend. He likes hay.
You look pretty bad,
I feel pretty bad.
Tim, too. His nose is all swollen up.
Where is Tim?
Peeing,
You want to help me feed Ralph?
He’s a very messy eater,
And he’s very hungry.
Okay, just a minute,
Honestly, Ralph,
you’d think your mother never fed you.
Why is his name Ralph?
Because he looks like Ralph. At school.
It’s okay, you can pet him,
He likes it when you pet him, don’t you,
 Ralph?
He’s pretty tame.
Maybe I can ride him,
Let’s not.
I bet he’d let me,
It’d be fun to ride a dinosaur.
Ralph, take it easy,
Push him out,
Is that his mom?
Looks like it,
Should we feed the mom, too?
Guess not.
Good-bye, Ralph,
Tell you what,
I’m going up on the hill to set off the motion
 sensors, so they’ll know to come get us. You two stay here and wait for me.
No,
Why? Stay here. It’s safe here.
You’re not leaving us,
Right, Timmy?
Right,
Okay,
Yow!
What was that?
Dragonflies,
The Jurassic was a time of huge insects.
Do they bite?
I don’t think so,
He’s going to bite you,
Which way do we go?
There.
We’ll try another one,
Ah hell,
I just can’t find it.
Find what?
The phones are still out. I can’t get them back on. I think Nedry did something
 to the phones.
Sounds like a modem.
But it’s not,
Because I went down into the basement and shut off
 all the modems. What you’re hearing is just white noise that sounds like a modem
 transmitting.
So the phone lines are jammed?
Basically, yes. Nedry jammed them very well. He’s inserted some kind of a
 lockout into the program code, and now I can’t find it, because I gave that restore
 command which erased part of the program listings. But apparently the command
 to shut off the phones is still resident in the computer memory.
So? Just reset: shut the system down and you’ll clear memory.
I’ve never done it before,
And I’m reluctant to do it. Maybe all the
 systems will come back on start-up—but maybe they won’t. I’m not a computer
expert, and neither are you. Not really. And without an open phone line, we can’t
 talk to anybody who is.
If the command is RAM-resident, it won’t show up in the code. You can do a
 RAM dump and search that, but you don’t know what you’re searching for. I think
 all you can do is reset.
We still don’t have any telephones.
Working on it.
You’ve been working on it since midnight. And Malcolm is worse. He needs
 medical attention.
It means I’ll have to shut down,
I can’t be sure everything will
 come back on.
Look. There’s a sick man over in that lodge. He needs a doctor or
 he’ll die. You can’t call for a doctor unless you have a phone. Four people have
 probably died already. Now, shut down and get the phones working!
Well?
Well, it’s just… the safety systems don’t allow the computer to be shut down,
 and—
Then turn the goddamn safety systems off! Can’t you get it through your head
 that he’s going to die unless he gets help?
Okay,
You asked for it,
And you got it.
How long do we have to wait?
Thirty seconds,
P-U!
What?
That smell!
It stinks like rotten garbage.
I think it’s your imagination,
Is not—
I told you!
Nobody listens to me!
Come on, kids!
What’s wrong?
Oh hell,
Thank God,
What’s this?
Give me a second,
After a reset, all the system modules have to
 be brought on line manually.
Why manually?
Will you just let me work, for Christ’s sake?
The system is not intended to ever shut down. So, if it does shut
 down, it assumes that there is a problem somewhere. It requires you to start up
 everything manually. Otherwise, if there were a short somewhere, the system
 would start up, short out, start up again, short out again, in an endless cycle.
Okay,
We’re going.
Jesus, look at that,
What’s happening?
The duckbills,
They’ve stampeded.
Better get Muldoon
 to go out there and see how bad it is.
I’ll get him,
good mother lizard
Hey, what’s that?
Don’t make her mad,
Is it dumb?
No,
You just surprised her.
Well,
is she going to let us get down, or what?
Forget it,
I’m not staying here.
We better get going, kids,
Not me,
I’m not walking out there any more.
We have to.
Why?
Because,
we have to tell them about the boat. Since they can’t
 seem to see us on the motion sensors, we have to go all the way back ourselves.
 It’s the only way.
Why can’t we take the raft?
What raft?
I saw a raft back
 there,
Let’s do it,
Mr. Arnold, may I have a word with you, please?
You want to come here, Mr. Hammond?
No, Mr. Arnold,
Come to me. I’m in the genetics lab with Dr.
 Wu. We’ll be waiting for you.
I don’t see any raft.
Keep going.
Okay,
but where’s the raft?
It must be here somewhere,
You never saw a raft?
No, I just assumed it was here.
I’m hungry…
Just a minute.
Hey,
look at this.
Good work, Tim.
Is it a tranquilizer gun?
I’d say so.
What about the boat?
I think it’s on the dock,
I hope it’s a big raft,
because I can’t swim.
Don’t worry,
Maybe we can catch some fish,
Are you sure there’s a raft down here?
Probably,
Lex,
Lex, shut up!
I can’t help it,
I couldn’t help it, Timmy!
I couldn’t help it!
Shhhh!
Anyway, it doesn’t matter,
We’re far enough away. He can’t swim.
Of course he can swim, you little idiot!
Well, how should I know?
Everybody knows tyrannosaurs can swim! It’s in all the books! Anyway, all
 reptiles can swim!
Snakes can’t.
Of course snakes can. You idiot!
Settle down,
Hold on to something!
I’m sorry, Dr. Grant!
I didn’t mean it!
What are you doing?
Did he drown?
No,
Hang on!
Do something!
Do something!
He’s going away!
He’s going away! Naah
naah-na-na-naah! Stupid dinosaur!
Are you okay, Dr. Grant?
From now on, will you just do what I tell you?
Oh-kay,
You stopped rowing,
I’m tired,
Then how come we’re still moving?
There must be a
 current.
Flaws in the system will now become severe.
No doubt about it. Rexy’s been among the
 hadrosaurs.
Damn lot
 of flies,
What are we waiting for?
The rex is out there somewhere,
And we don’t have any weapons
 worth a damn.
We’re in a Jeep.
Oh, he can outrun the Jeep, Mr. Gennaro,
Once we leave this road and go onto open terrain, the best we can do in a four
wheel drive is thirty, forty miles an hour. He’ll run us right down. No problem for
 him.
But I don’t see much moving out there now. You ready to
 live dangerously?
Sure,
What is it?
Bring the radio,
Young hadrosaur,
The whole herd
 stampeded, and the young one got separated, and the T-rex brought it down.
How do you know?
You can tell from the excreta,
See those chalky white bits there
 in the grass? That’s hadro spoor. Uric acid makes it white. But you look there
that’s tyrannosaur
 spoor.
How do you know the tyrannosaur didn’t come later?
The bite pattern,
See those little ones there?
Those are from the othys. Those bites haven’t bled. They’re postmortem,
 from scavengers. Othys did that. But the hadro was brought down by a bite on the
 neck—you see the big slash there, above the shoulder blades—and that’s the T
rex, no question.
Control.
Yes,
We got another hadro dead. Juvenile.
Specimen is number HD/09.
I’ve got something for you,
Oh? What’s that?
I found Nedry.
They found him up on remote video,
Sector
 1104 is just ahead.
He must have taken the wrong turnoff,
The little
 bastard.
What’d he take?
Wu says fifteen embryos. Know what that’s worth?
Somewhere between two and ten million,
Big stakes.
Compys,
The compys found him.
I’ll be damned,
Wasn’t the compys.
What?
See these blotches? On his shirt and his face?
 Smell that sweet smell like old, dried vomit?
That’s dilo saliva,
Spit from the dilophosaurs. You see the
 damage on the corneas, all that redness. In the eyes it’s painful but not fatal.
 You’ve got about two hours to wash it out with the antivenin; we keep it all around
 the park, just in case. Not that it mattered to this bastard. They blinded him, then
 ripped him down the middle. Not a nice way to go. Maybe there’s justice in the
 world after all.
It’s all
 still there,
What’re these?
Just what they look like,
Rockets.
Watch it—you don’t want to step in something.
Let’s go.
What about him?
What about him?
We’ve got things to do.
Hey, what’re you doing?
You think we can eat these berries?
No,
Why? Those little dinosaurs are eating them.
No, Lex.
I wish Daddy was here,
Daddy always knows what to do.
What’re you talking about?
He never knows what to do.
Yes, he does,
Just because you’re not his favorite…
But don’t worry, Daddy likes you, too. Even if you’re into computers and not
 sports.
Dad’s a real sports nut,
You know what
 they call those?
Microceratops.
Big deal,
I thought you might be interested.
Only very young boys,
are interested in dinosaurs.
Says who?
Daddy.
Kids,
shut up.
Why?
I can do what I want, if I—
Well, where the hell is the damn rex?
Because we don’t see him here.
Checking now,
Checking now,
Why
 the hell didn’t he check before? Why didn’t he keep track of him?
I don’t know,
He’s not showing up,
What do you mean, he’s not showing up?
He’s not on the monitors. Motion sensors aren’t finding him.
Hell,
So much for the motion sensors. You see Grant and the
 kids?
Motion sensors aren’t finding them, either.
Well, what are we supposed to do now?
Wait,
Look! Look!
It isn’t finished,
I think it’s meant to be open like that,
Then all the birds can fly out.
Not if they’re big birds,
I
 seem to remember there’s a second lodge here.
You want to stop?
Maybe there’s a phone. Or motion sensors.
We need to try to contact the control room. It’s getting late.
I just don’t understand,
I don’t
 see the rex, and I don’t see Grant and the kids anywhere, either.
All the park systems are back, and
 functioning correctly. The phones are working. I’ve called for a doctor for you.
But you’re having trouble with the motion sensors?
Well, I’m not finding what I am looking for.
Like the rex?
He’s not reading at all now. He started north about twenty minutes ago,
 following along the edge of the lagoon, and then I lost him. I don’t know why,
 unless he’s gone to sleep again.
And you can’t find Grant and the kids?
No.
I think it’s quite simple,
The motion sensors cover an
 inadequate area.
Inadequate?
They cover ninety-two—
Ninety-two percent of the land area, I remember,
But if you put
 the remaining areas up on the board, I think you’ll find that the eight percent is
 topologically unified, meaning that those areas are contiguous. In essence, an
 animal can move freely anywhere in the park and escape detection, by following a
 maintenance road or the jungle river or the beaches or whatever.
Even if that were so,
the animals are too stupid to know that.
It’s not clear how stupid the animals are,
You think that’s what Grant and the kids are doing?
Definitely not,
Grant’s no fool. He clearly
 wants to be detected by you. He and the kids are probably waving at every motion
 sensor in sight. But maybe they have other problems we don’t know about. Or
 maybe they’re on the river.
I can’t imagine they’d be on the river. The banks are very narrow. It’s
 impossible to walk along there.
Would the river bring them all the way back here?
Yes, but it’s not the safest way to go, because it passes through the aviary…
Why wasn’t the aviary on the tour?
We’ve had problems setting it up. Originally the park was intended to have a
 treetop lodge built high above the ground, where visitors could observe the
 pterodactyls at flight level. We’ve got four dactyls in the aviary now—actually,
 they’re cearadactyls, which are big fish-eating dactyls.
What about them?
Well, while we finished the lodge, we put the dactyls in the aviary to acclimate
 them. But that was a big mistake. It turns out our fish-hunters are territorial.
Territorial?
Fiercely territorial,
They fight among themselves for territory—
 and they’ll attack any other animal that comes into the area they’ve marked out.
Attack?
It’s impressive,
The dactyls glide to the top of the aviary, fold up
 their wings, and dive. A thirty-pound animal will strike a man on the ground like a
 ton of bricks. They were knocking the workmen unconscious, cutting them up
 pretty badly.
That doesn’t injure the dactyls?
Not so far.
So, if those kids are in the aviary…
They’re not,
At least, I hope they’re not.
Is that the lodge?
What a dump.
I guess they didn’t finish it, for some reason,
Come on, let’s go back to the boat.
Stinks here,
What’s all the white stuff?
Looks like reptile droppings. Probably from the birds.
How come they didn’t finish the lodge?
I don’t know.
What’s that?
I don’t know.
Yow!
Is it a pterodactyl?
Yes,
How come they’re not on the tour?
Maybe because they didn’t finish the lodge,
Can they hurt us?
I don’t think so. They eat fish.
Wow!
They’re really big.
Are you sure they can’t
 hurt us?
Pretty sure.
Ow!
He bit me!
He what?
He bit me! He bit me!
Come on!
Uck,
Come on!
What happened?
They got my glove,
My Darryl Strawberry special.
Are you all
 right?
Of course, stupid,
I hope they
 choke and die,
Yeah,
Me, too.
I wonder how Ralph is,
He’s probably dead or something.
I’m sure he’s fine.
I wonder if he’d let me ride him.
That would be fun, to ride Ralph.
Remember back at the stegosaurus? Last night?
Yes.
How come you asked them about frog DNA?
Because of the breeding,
They can’t explain why the dinosaurs
 are breeding, since they irradiate them, and since they’re all females.
Right.
Well, irradiation is notoriously unreliable and probably doesn’t work. I think
 that’ll eventually be shown here. But there is still the problem of the dinosaurs’
 being female. How can they breed when they’re all female?
Right,
Well, across the animal kingdom, sexual reproduction exists in extraordinary
 variety.
Tim’s very interested in sex,
For example,
many animals have sexual
 reproduction without ever having what we would call sex. The male releases a
 spermatophore, which contains the sperm, and the female picks it up at a later
 time. This kind of exchange does not require quite as much physical differentiation
between male and female as we usually think exists. Male and female are more
 alike in some animals than they are in human beings.
But what about the frogs?
I hate him,
Hey,
listen!
What is it?
I don’t know,
But there’s more than one of them.
It sounds like a bunch of owls,
Isn’t it time for more morphine yet?
Not yet,
How much water have we got here?
I don’t know. There’s plenty of running water from the tap—
No, I mean, how much stored? Any?
None.
Go into the rooms on this floor,
and fill the bathtubs with
 water.
Also,
have we got any walkie-talkies? Flashlights? Matches?
 Sterno stoves? Things like that?
I’ll look around. You planning for an earthquake?
Something like that,
Malcolm Effect implies catastrophic
 changes.
But Arnold says all the systems are working perfectly.
That’s when it happens,
You don’t think much of Arnold, do you?
He’s all right. He’s an engineer. Wu’s the same. They’re both technicians. They
 don’t have intelligence. They have what I call ‘thintelligence.’ They see the
 immediate situation. They think narrowly and they call it ‘being focused.’ They
 don’t see the surround. They don’t see the consequences. That’s how you get an
 island like this. From thintelligent thinking. Because you cannot make an animal
 and not expect it to act alive. To be unpredictable. To escape. But they don’t see
 that.
Don’t you think it’s just human nature?
God, no,
That’s like saying scrambled eggs and bacon for
 breakfast is human nature. It’s nothing of the sort. It’s uniquely Western training,
 and much of the rest of the world is nauseated by the thought of it.
The morphine’s making me philosophical.
You want some water?
No. I’ll tell you the problem with engineers and scientists. Scientists have an
 elaborate line of bullshit about how they are seeking to know the truth about
 nature. Which is true, but that’s not what drives them. Nobody is driven by
 abstractions like ‘seeking truth.’
 “Scientists are actually preoccupied with accomplishment. So they are focused
 on whether they can do something. They never stop to ask if they should do
 something. They conveniently define such considerations as pointless. If they don’t
 do it, someone else will. Discovery, they believe, is inevitable. So they just try to do
 it first. That’s the game in science. Even pure scientific discovery is an aggressive,
 penetrative act. It takes big equipment, and it literally changes the world
 afterward. Particle accelerators scar the land, and leave radioactive byproducts.
 Astronauts leave trash on the moon. There is always some proof that scientists
 were there, making their discoveries. Discovery is always a rape of the natural
 world. Always.
 “The scientists want it that way. They have to stick their instruments in. They
 have to leave their mark. They can’t just watch. They can’t just appreciate. They
 can’t just fit into the natural order. They have to make something unnatural
 happen. That is the scientist’s job, and now we have whole societies that try to be
 scientific.
Don’t you think you’re overstating—
What does one of your excavations look like a year later?
Pretty bad,
You don’t replant, you don’t restore the land after you dig?
No.
Why not?
There’s no money, I guess…
There’s only enough money to dig, but not to repair?
Well, we’re just working in the badlands…
Just the badlands,
Just trash. Just
 byproducts. Just side effects… I’m trying to tell you that scientists want it this
 way. They want byproducts and trash and scars and side effects. It’s a way of
 reassuring themselves. It’s built into the fabric of science, and it’s increasingly a
 disaster.
Then what’s the answer?
Get rid of the thintelligent ones. Take them out of power.
But then we’d lose all the advances—
What advances?
The number of hours women devote
 to housework has not changed since 1930, despite all the advances. All the
 vacuum cleaners, washer-dryers, trash compactors, garbage disposals, wash-and
wear fabrics… Why does it still take as long to clean the house as it did in 1930?
Because there haven’t been any advances,
Not really. Thirty
 thousand years ago; when men were doing cave paintings at Lascaux, they worked
 twenty hours a week to provide themselves with food and shelter and clothing. The
 rest of the time, they could play, or sleep, or do whatever they wanted. And they
 lived in a natural world, with clean air, clean water, beautiful trees and sunsets.
 Think about it. Twenty hours a week. Thirty thousand years ago.
You want to turn back the clock?
No,
I want people to wake up. We’ve had four hundred years of
 modern science, and we ought to know by now what it’s good for, and what it’s not
 good for. It’s time for a change.
Before we destroy the planet?
Oh dear,
That’s the last thing I would
 worry about.
Aren’t those the ones that are poison?
Yes,
Dilophosaurus.
Should we get out and walk?
But we can’t get past them in the boat,
They’re poison.
We have to,
Somehow.
I’ll be damned,
It’s a mating ritual.
Can we get past them?
Not the way they are now. They’re right by the edge of the water.
What do we do?
I have no idea.
What is it?
I think we’re finally getting some help.
I want you two kids to lie flat on the rubber. We’ll go past as fast as we can.
 But just remember: whatever happens, don’t say anything, and don’t move.
 Okay?
Oh, great.
Christ, it’s hot,
Muldoon.
Yeah.
You got your onboards? I found the rex. He’s in grid 442. Going to 443.
Just a minute,
Yeah. I got him now.
 Following the river.
Take it easy with him. Just immobilize him.
Don’t worry,
I won’t hurt him.
Remember,
the tyrannosaur’s our main tourist attraction.
Bloody fool,
They’re still talking about tourists.
Let’s go see
 Rexy and give him a dose.
You’re looking forward to this,
I’ve wanted to put a needle in this big bastard for a while,
And
 there he is.
You want to help,
you can break out those canisters by your
 feet.
You snap off the tip and screw on a needle,
That’s the plunger. Compresses on impact.
What’s MORO-709?
Standard animal trank,
Zoos around the world use it. We’ll try
 a thousand cc’s to start.
That should do it,
Standard elephant gets about two hundred
 cc’s, but they’re only two or three tons each. Tyrannosaurus rex is eight tons, and
 a lot meaner. That matters to the dose.
Why?
Animal dose is partly body weight and partly temperament. You shoot the same
 dose of 709 into an elephant, a hippo, and a rhino—you’ll immobilize the elephant,
 so it just stands there like a statue. You’ll slow down the hippo, so it gets kind of
 sleepy but it keeps moving. And the rhino will just get fighting mad. But, on the
 other hand, you chase a rhino for more than five minutes in a car and he’ll drop
 dead from adrenaline shock. Strange combination of tough and delicate.
But
 those are all mammals. We know a lot about handling mammals, because zoos are
 built around the big mammalian attractions—lions, tigers, bears, elephants. We
 know a lot less about reptiles. And nobody knows anything about dinosaurs. The
 dinosaurs are new animals.
You consider them reptiles?
No,
Dinosaurs don’t fit existing categories.
Actually, what we find is, the dinosaurs were as variable
 as mammals are today. Some dinos are tame and cute, and some are mean and
 nasty. Some of them see well, and some of them don’t. Some of them are stupid,
 and some of them are very, very intelligent.
Like the raptors?
Raptors are smart. Very smart. Believe me, all the problems
 we have so far,
are nothing compared with what we’d have if the raptors
 ever got out of their holding pen. Ah. I think this is as close as we can get to our
 Rexy.
Wonder what he sees in there?
Hard to know,
Maybe he’s trying to get to the
 microceratopsians that scramble around in the branches. They’ll run him a merry
 chase.
Get behind the wheel,
And put your seat belt on.
You done this very often before?
Never. I’ll try to get him just behind the auditory meatus.
 We’ll see how it goes from there.
You hit him?
Missed. Damn laser sights… See if there’s a battery
 in the case.
A what?
A battery,
It’s about as big as your finger. Gray markings.
Muldoon. This is Arnold. Get out of there. Over.
I know what I’m doing,
Go! Go!
Go, damn it! Go!
Jesus.
I could have sworn I hit him the second time.
I’d say you missed,
Needle must have broken off before the plunger injected.
Admit it, you missed.
Yeah,
I missed. Battery was dead in the damned
 laser sights. My fault. I should have checked it, after it was out all last night. Let’s
 go back and get more canisters.
Control.
Yes,
We’re heading back to base.
Whee!
Faster, faster!
What is it?
It’s a waterfall,
I can’t swim!
Hi,
We did it.
Will you stop it? What’re you crying
 for?
Because.
We were worried about you,
Come on, kids,
Where are we going?
Come on.
Where are we going?
We’re going back.
I know.
Did he see us?
Where are we? What is this place? Did he see us?
Just a minute,
What are you doing?
Looking for a telephone.
Come on, kids.
Forget it,
I’m not going in there.
Come on, Lex,
Forget it,
There’s no lights or anything. I’m not going.
Never mind,
Stay here, and I’ll be
 right back.
Where’re you going?
Dr. Grant!
Dr. Grant!
Take it easy,
He’ll be back.
But where did he go?
Listen, Dr. Grant knows what he’s doing,
He’ll be back in a minute.
He should come back now,
I hate him,
What is he doing?
Sshhhh.
Eeww,
Don’t move,
Timmy…
Come on, Timmy!
Timmy?
What’s he doing?
Okay,
The rex is down.
Son of a bitch,
I got him after all.
It just took him an hour to feel it.
But he could drown, in that position.…
He won’t drown,
Never seen an animal that was harder to kill.
I think we have to go out and move him,
We will,
That’s a valuable animal.
I know it’s a valuable animal,
I’d point
 out to you,
that the park is now completely back to normal. Whatever
Malcolm’s mathematical model said was going to happen. We are completely under
 control again.
What’s that?
Henry,
Look at this.
Why are you running on auxiliary power?
I’m not,
It looks like you are.
I can’t be.
Print the system status log,
What the hell is going on?
I hope he’s dead,
He’s been shot with a dart,
Good,
He practically ate us.
It’s not his fault,
Oh sure,
He practically ate us and it’s not his fault.
He’s a carnivore. He was just doing what he does.
You wouldn’t say that,
if you were in his stomach right now.
Timmy. The waterfall stopped,
Waterfalls aren’t supposed to stop,
It must be the power.… Somebody turned off the power.
Good work, kids. You got the
 door open.
We didn’t do anything,
The power went out,
Never mind that,
Come and see what I’ve found.
Look at this,
You shut down at five-thirteen this morning, and when you started
 back up, you started with auxiliary power.
Jesus,
What does this line mean?
It means a system status warning was sent to the monitors in the control
 room,
Concerning the fences.
Did you see that warning?
No. I must have been talking to you in the field.
 Anyway, no, I didn’t see it.
What does it mean, ‘Warning: Fence Status’?
Well, I didn’t know it at the time, but we were running on backup power,
And backup doesn’t generate enough amperage to power the
 electrified fences, so they were automatically kept off.
The electrified fences were off?
Yes.
All of them? Since five this morning? For the last five hours?
Yes.
Including the velociraptor fences?
Yes.
Jesus Christ,
Five hours. Those animals could be out.
Mr. Arnold is going to the maintenance shed to turn on main power. Dr. Wu,
 stay in the control room. You’re the only other one who can work the computers.
 Mr. Hammond, go back to the lodge. Don’t argue with me. Go now. Lock the gates,
 and stay behind them until you hear from me. I’ll help Arnold deal with the
 raptors.
Like to live dangerously again?
Not really,
Fine. Then go with the others to the lodge.
That’s it,
 everybody. Now move.
But what are you going to do to my animals?
That’s not really the question, Mr. Hammond,
The question is,
 what are they going to do to us?
Change your mind?
You’ll need help,
I might.
The thing about these damn dinos,
is that they have
 distributed nervous systems. They don’t die fast, even with a direct hit to the
 brain. And they’re built solidly; thick ribs make a shot to the heart dicey, and
 they’re difficult to cripple in the legs or hindquarters. Slow bleeders, slow to die.
Put that on.
About all we
 can hope to do is blow them apart. Unfortunately we’ve only got six shells here.
 There’s eight raptors in that fenced compound. Let’s go. Stay close. You have the
 shells.
Load,
Christ, you’ve got it in backward,
That’ll wake ’em up,
This could be a disaster.
Load,
How is he?
He’s holding,
A bit delirious.
I am nothing of the sort,
I am utterly clear.
It sounds like a war out there.
The raptors got out,
Did they,
How could that possibly
 happen?
It was a system screwup. Arnold didn’t realize that the auxiliary power was on,
 and the fences cut out.
Did they.
Go to hell, you supercilious bastard.
If I remember,
I predicted fence integrity would fail.
Damn it all,
It must surely not have escaped your notice that at heart what we are
 attempting here is an extremely simple idea. My colleagues and I determined,
 several years ago, that it was possible to clone the DNA of an extinct animal, and
 to grow it. That seemed to us a wonderful idea, it was a kind of time travel—the
only time travel in the world. Bring them back alive, so to speak. And since it was
 so exciting, and since it was possible to do it, we decided to go forward. We got this
 island, and we proceeded. It was all very simple.
Simple?
Simple? You’re a bigger fool than I thought you were. And I thought you were a
 very substantial fool.
Dr. Malcolm,
What is that, going on out there?
That’s your simple idea. Simple.
 You create new life-forms, about which you know nothing at all. Your Dr. Wu does
 not even know the names of the things he is creating. He cannot be bothered with
 such details as what the thing is called, let alone what it is. You create many of
 them in a very short time, you never learn anything about them, yet you expect
 them to do your bidding, because you made them and you therefore think you own
 them; you forget that they are alive, they have an intelligence of their own, and
 they may not do your bidding, and you forget how little you know about them, how
 incompetent you are to do the things that you so frivolously call simple.… Dear
 God …
You know what’s wrong with scientific power?
It’s a form of
 inherited wealth. And you know what assholes congenitally rich people are. It
 never fails.
What is he talking about?
I will tell you what I am talking about,
Most kinds of power require a
 substantial sacrifice by whoever wants the power. There is an apprenticeship, a
 discipline lasting many years. Whatever kind of power you want. President of the
 company. Black belt in karate. Spiritual guru. Whatever it is you seek, you have to
 put in the time, the practice, the effort. You must give up a lot to get it. It has to be
 very important to you. And once you have attained it, it is your power. It can’t be
 given away: it resides in you. It is literally the result of your discipline.
 “Now, what is interesting about this process is that, by the time someone has
 acquired the ability to kill with his bare hands, he has also matured to the point
 where he won’t use it unwisely. So that kind of power has a built-in control. The
 discipline of getting the power changes you so that you won’t abuse it.
 “But scientific power is like inherited wealth: attained without discipline. You
 read what others have done, and you take the next step. You can do it very young.
 You can make progress very fast. There is no discipline lasting many decades.
 There is no mastery: old scientists are ignored. There is no humility before nature.
 There is only a get-rich-quick, make-a-name-for-yourself-fast philosophy. Cheat,
 lie, falsify—it doesn’t matter. Not to you, or to your colleagues. No one will criticize
 you. No one has any standards. They are all trying to do the same thing: to do
 something big, and do it fast.
 “And because you can stand on the shoulders of giants, you can accomplish
 something quickly. You don’t even know exactly what you have done, but already
 you have reported it, patented it, and sold it. And the buyer will have even less
discipline than you. The buyer simply purchases the power, like any commodity.
 The buyer doesn’t even conceive that any discipline might be necessary.
Do you know what he is talking about?
I haven’t a clue,
I’ll make it simple,
A karate master does not kill people with his
 bare hands. He does not lose his temper and kill his wife. The person who kills is
 the person who has no discipline, no restraint, and who has purchased his power
 in the form of a Saturday night special. And that is the kind of power that science
 fosters, and permits. And that is why you think that to build a place like this is
 simple.
It was simple,
Then why did it go wrong?
Wu!
Yes. I’m here.
Got any bloody power yet?
No,
I think Arnold made it to the shed,
After that, I don’t know.
Where are you?
I’m stuffed.
What?
Stuffed in a bloody pipe,
And I’m very popular at the moment.
Yes, very popular,
Does Arnold have a radio?
Don’t think so,
Just sit tight. Wait it out.
Too bad, buddy,
How long has it been?
Four, five minutes.
Arnold should have done it by now,
If he’s going to. You got
 any ideas?
No,
We heard from Gennaro?
I’m here.
Where the hell are you?
I’m going to the maintenance building,
Wish me luck.
Anything?
You getting anything?
No word,
Hell,
I can’t wait,
to hear his new plan.
What I would like,
is to get everybody to the lodge and regroup.
 But I don’t see how.
There’s a Jeep in front of the visitor center,
If I drove over to you,
 could you get yourself into it?
Maybe. But you’d be abandoning the control room.
I can’t do anything here anyway.
God knows that’s true,
A control room without electricity is not
 much of a control room.
All right,
Let’s try. This isn’t looking good.
No, it’s not looking good. It’s looking like a
 disaster.
The raptors are going to follow us over there.
We’re still better off,
Let’s go.
Just relax,
Just take it easy.
You know what we are really talking about here,
All this
 attempt to control… We are talking about Western attitudes that are five hundred
 years old. They began at the time when Florence, Italy, was the most important
 city in the world. The basic idea of science—that there was a new way to look at
 reality, that it was objective, that it did not depend on your beliefs or your
nationality, that it was rational—that idea was fresh and exciting back then. It
 offered promise and hope for the future, and it swept away the old medieval
 system, which was hundreds of years old. The medieval world of feudal politics
 and religious dogma and hateful superstitions fell before science. But, in truth,
 this was because the medieval world didn’t really work any more. It didn’t work
 economically, it didn’t work intellectually, and it didn’t fit the new world that was
 emerging.
But now,
science is the belief system that is hundreds of years
 old. And, like the medieval system before it, science is starting not to fit the world
 any more. Science has attained so much power that its practical limits begin to be
 apparent. Largely through science, billions of us live in one small world, densely
 packed and intercommunicating. But science cannot help us decide what to do
 with that world, or how to live. Science can make a nuclear reactor, but it cannot
 tell us not to build it. Science can make pesticide, but cannot tell us not to use it.
 And our world starts to seem polluted in fundamental ways—air, and water, and
 land—because of ungovernable science.
This much is obvious to
 everyone.
At the same time, the great intellectual justification of science has vanished.
 Ever since Newton and Descartes, science has explicitly offered us the vision of
 total control. Science has claimed the power to eventually control everything,
 through its understanding of natural laws. But in the twentieth century, that
 claim has been shattered beyond repair. First, Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle
 set limits on what we could know about the subatomic world. Oh well, we say.
 None of us lives in a subatomic world. It doesn’t make any practical difference as
 we go through our lives. Then Godel’s theorem set similar limits to mathematics,
 the formal language of science. Mathematicians used to think that their language
 had some special inherent trueness that derived from the laws of logic. Now we
 know that what we call ‘reason’ is just an arbitrary game. It’s not special, in the
 way we thought it was.
 “And now chaos theory proves that unpredictability is built into our daily lives.
 It is as mundane as the rainstorm we cannot predict. And so the grand vision of
 science, hundreds of years old—the dream of total control—has died, in our
 century. And with it much of the justification, the rationale for science to do what
 it does. And for us to listen to it. Science has always said that it may not know
 everything now but it will know, eventually. But now we see that isn’t true. It is an
 idle boast. As foolish, and as misguided, as the child who jumps off a building
 because he believes he can fly.
This is very extreme,
We are witnessing the end of the scientific era. Science, like other outmoded
 systems, is destroying itself. As it gains in power, it proves itself incapable of
 handling the power. Because things are going very fast now. Fifty years ago,
 everyone was gaga over the atomic bomb. That was power. No one could imagine
 anything more. Yet, a bare decade after the bomb, we began to have genetic power.
And genetic power is far more potent than atomic power. And it will be in
 everyone’s hands. It will be in kits for backyard gardeners. Experiments for
 schoolchildren. Cheap labs for terrorists and dictators. And that will force
 everyone to ask the same question—What should I do with my power?—which is
 the very question science says it cannot answer.
So what will happen?
A change.
What kind of change?
All major changes are like death,
You can’t see to the other side until
 you are there.
The poor man,
Do you have any idea,
how unlikely it is that you, or
 any of us, will get off this island alive?
System recovery may prove impossible.
Why is it having trouble breathing?
Because I shot it with tranquilizer,
Is it going to die?
I hope not.
Why are we taking it?
To prove to the people back at the center that the dinosaurs are really
 breeding,
How do you know they’re breeding?
Because this one is young,
And because it’s a boy dinosaur.
Is it?
Yes. Now shine that light forward, will you?
What does it say?
It says… ten-fifteen.
Okay.
That means we have only forty-five minutes to contact the boat.
We should be close,
I figure we should be almost to the visitor
 center right now.
Wow!
Yay!
We did it! Yay!
I’m going to get a hamburger! And french fries! Chocolate milk shake! No more
 dinosaurs! Yay!
Hello, this is Grant. Is anybody
 there? Hello, this is Grant.
Hello, this is Grant. Hello.
Hey. Stop that.
Is he dead? What’s that stuff on the floor? Blood?
Yes.
How come it isn’t real red?
You’re morbid,
What’s ‘morbid’? I am not.
My God,
Grant? Is that you?
Alan? Alan?
I’m here,
Thank God,
Are you all right?
I’m all right, yes.
What about the kids? Have you seen them?
I have the kids with me,
They’re okay.
Thank God.
Get
 back here.
—n where are you?
In the lobby. In the lobby of the main building.
My God. They’re here.
Alan, listen,
The raptors have gotten loose. They can open doors.
 They may be in the same building as you.
Great. Where are you?
We’re in the lodge.
And the others? Muldoon, everybody else?
We’ve lost a few people. But we got everybody else over to the lodge.
And are the telephones working?
No. The whole system is shut off. Nothing works.
How do we get the system back on?
We’ve been trying.
We have to get it back on,
right away. If we don’t, within half an
 hour the raptors will reach the mainland.
I don’t think
 you understand, Dr. Grant. We haven’t got half an hour left, over here.
How’s that?
Some of the raptors followed us. We’ve got two on the roof now.
So what? The building’s impregnable.
Apparently not. It was never expected that animals would
 get up on the roof.
—must have planted a tree too close to
 the fence. The raptors got over the fence, and onto the roof. Anyway, the steel bars
 on the skylight are supposed to be electrified, but of course the power’s off. They’re
 biting through the bars of the skylight.
Biting through the bars?
How
 fast?
Yes,
they have a bite pressure of fifteen thousand pounds a
 square inch. They’re like hyenas, they can bite through steel and—
How fast?
I’d guess we’ve got another ten, fifteen minutes before they
 break through completely and come through the skylight into the building. And
 once they’re in… Ah, just a minute, Dr. Grant.
God, they’re ugly,
At least they can’t get in yet,
Not until they chew through another
 bar.
If Grant could somehow get to the maintenance shed …
Bloody hell,
He can’t get there fast enough. He can’t get the power on fast enough. Not to stop
 this.
Yes.
What’d he say?
Yes,
Can…
Can what?
Distraction…
What kind of a distraction?
Go to… the fence…
Yes? And do what?
Stick … your hands through.
Oh Christ,
Wait a minute,
He’s right. There are only two raptors here. Which
 means there are at least four more out there. We could go out and provide a
 distraction.
And then what?
And then Grant would be free to go to the maintenance building and turn on
 the generator.
And then go back to the control room and start up the system?
Exactly.
No time,
No time.
But if we can lure the raptors down here,
maybe even get them away
 from that skylight… It might work. Worth a try.
Bait,
Exactly.
Who’s going to be the bait? I’m no good. My ankle’s shot.
I’ll do it,
No,
You’re the only one who knows what to do about the
 computer. You need to talk Grant through the start-up.
Then I’ll do it,
No,
Malcolm needs you. I’ll do it.
Hell, I don’t think so,
You’d have raptors all around you,
 raptors on the roof…
Just don’t tell
 Grant,
It’ll make him nervous.
Why aren’t they talking to us?
I’m hungry,
They’re trying to plan,
Grant, are you—nry Wu speaking. Are you there?
I’m here,
Listen,
Can you see to the rear of the visitor building from where
 you are?
Yes,
There’s a path straight through the palm trees to the maintenance
 building. That’s where the power equipment and generators are. I believe you saw
 the maintenance building yesterday?
Yes,
Now, listen,
We think we can get all the raptors down here by the
 lodge, but we aren’t sure. So be careful. Give us five minutes.
Okay,
You can leave the kids in the cafeteria, and they should be all right. Take the
 radio with you when you go.
Okay.
Turn it off before you leave, so it doesn’t make any noise outside. And call me
 when you get to the maintenance building.
Okay.
Are we going to the cafeteria?
Yes,
I want a hamburger,
I don’t think there’s any electricity to cook with.
Then ice cream.
Tim, you’ll have to stay with her and help her.
I will.
I’ve got to leave for a while,
I know.
Okay, kids. I want you to stay here no matter what. Got it?
Leave us the radio,
I can’t. I need it. Just stay here. I’ll only be gone about five minutes. Okay?
Okay.
Turn on the lights,
I can’t,
There’s no electricity.
That’s fine for you. What about me?
Just hold my hand. We’ll get some food.
I told you,
I want ice cream, not candy.
Take these anyway.
Ice cream, Tim.
Okay, okay.
I can’t see spit,
Just walk with me. Hold my hand.
Then slow down.
Hey!
I doubt that’ll do it,
You’ve
 got to make a noise.
Come and get it!
 Dinner is served!
Very amusing,
They don’t understand English.
But I imagine they get the
 general idea…
First customer,
You’re making too much noise,
Bloody hell,
Well, you are.
I know these animals—
You’re drunk,
Let me handle it.
And how will you do that?
They say the raptors are
 intelligent.
They are. At least as intelligent as chimps.
They have good hearing?
Yes, excellent.
Maybe they’ll know this sound,
I wouldn’t do that,
You’re going to do that, let me get the
 launcher.
Get the launcher.
Gennaro has the shells.
Well, then,
Keep an eye out.
God damn it, girl, don’t you do that,
Don’t call me ‘girl,’ 
I’ll call you any damn thing I want,
Do you hear me, damn it?
Good work,
Christ, that was close! These
 bastards can jump!
Come on, help me,
Let’s keep ’em interested!
This is Grant,
I’m inside.
Like birds,
Putting on a show.
They’re intelligent. They see they can’t get her.
 They’re not really trying.
—side.
Say again, Dr. Grant?
I’m inside,
Dr. Grant, you’re in the maintenance building?
Yes,
Maybe you should call me Alan.
All right, Alan. If you’re standing just inside the east door, you see a lot of pipes
 and tubing.
Straight ahead is a big recessed
 well in the center of the building that goes two stories underground. To your left is
 a metal walkway with railings.
I see it.
Go along the walkway.
I’m going.
After you go twenty or thirty feet, you will see another walkway going right.
I see it,
Follow that walkway.
Okay.
As you continue,
you will come to a ladder on your left. Going down
 into the pit.
I see it.
Go down the ladder.
Okay, I’m down the ladder,
Good,
Now, straight ahead of you should be two large yellow tanks
 that are marked ‘Flammable.’ 
They say ‘In-flammable.’ And then something underneath. In Spanish.
Those are the ones,
Those are the two fuel tanks for the generator.
 One of them has been run dry, and so we have to switch over to the other. If you
 look at the bottom of the tanks, you’ll see a white pipe coming out.
Four-inch PVC?
Yes. PVC. Follow that pipe as it goes back.
Okay. I’m following it… Ow!
What happened?
Nothing. I hit my head.
Are you all right?
Yeah, fine. Just … hurt my head. Stupid.
Keep following the pipe.
Okay, okay,
Okay. The pipe goes to a big
 aluminum box with air vents in the sides. Says ‘Honda.’ It looks like the
 generator.
Yes,
That’s the generator. If you walk around to the side, you’ll see a
 panel with two buttons.
I see them. Yellow and red?
That’s right,
Press the yellow one first, and while you hold it down,
 press the red one.
Right.
Alan?
It didn’t work,
Did you hold down the yellow first and then press the red?
Yes, I did,
I did exactly what you told me to
 do. There was a hum, and then a click, click, click, very fast, and then the hum
 stopped, and nothing after that.
Try it again.
I already did,
It didn’t work.
Okay, just a minute.
It sounds like the generator is trying to fire
 up but it can’t for some reason. Alan?
I’m here.
Go around to the back of the generator, to where the plastic pipe runs in.
Okay.
The pipe goes into a round black cylinder
 that looks like a fuel pump.
That’s right,
That’s exactly what it is. It’s the fuel pump. Look for a
 little valve at the top.
A valve?
It should be sticking up at the top, with a little metal tab that you can turn.
I found it. But it’s on the side, not the top.
Okay. Twist it open.
Air is coming out.
Good. Wait until—
—now liquid is coming out. It smells like gas.
Okay. Close the valve.
Pump lost
 its prime. Alan?
Yes.
Try the buttons again.
It’s on,
Good work, Alan! Good work!
Now what?
The lights haven’t even come on
 in here.
Go back to the control room, and I’ll talk you through restoring the systems
 manually.
That’s what I have to do now?
Yes.
Okay,
I’ll call you when I get there.
Alan?
How come the stove is on?
It’s not on.
They all have little blue flames.
Those’re pilot lights.
What’re pilot lights?
Never mind,
But it means I can cook
 you something.
You still want ice cream?
I told you, didn’t I?
Timmy …
Will you wait a minute?
I’m trying to find your ice cream.
Timmy … something’s here.
Timmy,
I’m scared…
Where are you?
Over here,
In the truck.
Is something out there?
Stay here!
Lex! Lex!
Lex!
What do you want!
There’s a pin! A
 little pin! Get the pin!
I can’t see anything!
It’s right there!
I can’t see it!
Feel for it!
I have it!
From the top, put it in from the top!
Let’s go,
You should have seen them,
There must have been two dozen of them. Compys. I had
 to crawl into the truck to get away from them. They were all over the windshield.
 Just squatting there, waiting like buzzards. But they ran away when you came
 over.
Scavengers,
They won’t attack anything that’s moving or looks
 strong. They attack things that are dead, or almost dead. Anyway, unmoving.
What
 happened to the raptor that attacked you?
I don’t know,
Did it leave?
I didn’t see. I got away, I think because it was injured. I think Muldoon shot it
 in the leg and it was bleeding while it was in here. Then… I don’t know. Maybe it
 went back outside. Maybe it died in here. I didn’t see.
And maybe it’s still in here,
Where’s Ellie?
Still outside.
Better get her in. The raptors have left the skylight.
When?
Just a moment ago,
Ellie! Inside, now!
There’s no problem, everything’s under
 control…
Now!
I know what I’m doing,
Now, Ellie, damn it!
He jumped down from the roof?
No choice. We’ve got to turn on
 the computer.
Sattler?
Sattler!
Sattler!
She’s
 here, she’s already inside.
Where are we going?
To the control room,
Where’s that?
Down here someplace.
How come it opened?
The power is out,
Why’re we going to the control room?
To find a radio. We need to call somebody.
They’re out there…
Don’t worry.
What are they doing here?
Never mind now.
Here,
So where’s a radio?
The power must be back on…
Ick,
What.
I was standing on somebody’s ear,
That is really disgusting,
Never mind.
Where’s the rest of him?
Never mind that now.
You better not fool around with that, Timmy,
Don’t worry, I won’t.
How does it work?
I can’t make it work.
Give me that!
It’s mine! I found it!
Give it to me, Lex!
I get to use it first!
Lex!
What the hell is going on!
What’re they doing?
It looks like they’re trying to get into the cafeteria,
What’s in the cafeteria?
I left the kids there…
Can they break through that glass?
I don’t think so, no.
Hello? Hello?
—s that you, Tim?
It’s me, yes.
Where are you?
In the control room. The power is on!
That’s great, Tim,
If someone will tell me how to turn the computer on, I’ll do it.
Hello?
Did you hear me?
Ah, we have a problem about that,
Nobody, ah, who is here
 knows how to do that. How to turn the computer on.
What, are you kidding? Nobody knows?
No.
I think it’s something about the main grid. Turning on the main
 grid… You know anything about computers, Tim?
Tell him no, Timmy,
Yes, some. I know something,
Might as well try,
Nobody here knows what to do. And Grant
 doesn’t know about computers.
Okay,
I’ll try.
Timmy,
You don’t know what to do.
Yes I do.
If you know, then do it,
Just a minute.
Well?
Something’s wrong,
You just don’t know, Timmy,
What happened?
What did you do? You touched something.
I want to see,
You should try VIEW.
No, Lex.
Well, I want VIEW,
Uh-oh,
Lex, will you cut it out?
Look!
It worked! Ha!
What was that?
What?
That picture!
Stop it,
I see them!
Wait,
You’re confusing it.…
Will you shut up! You don’t know anything about computers!
They see us,
I don’t think so.
Hello,
 Tim?
I’m here,
Ah, we haven’t got a whole lot of time,
Better get that
 power grid on.
Hurry, Timmy!
Get the power on!
Do something, Timmy!
Will you shut up? I’m trying to get help.
What’s that?
Why aren’t you turning on the power, Timmy?
info.
Tim-ee,
How’s it coming, Tim?
It’s not working,
I know!
Timmy…
Not now, Lex.
Yes, now,
It won’t be long now. Three, four minutes.
Tim, are you there? Tim?
I thought you said they couldn’t—
Ssshh.
We’re locked out,
Look.
You idiot, you locked us out!
Come on,
What happened to Tim?
Still no word?
I don’t know.
Ugly, aren’t they. Truly ugly.
Who could have imagined it would turn out this
 way.
Apparently Malcolm did.
I didn’t imagine it,
I calculated it.
No more of this, please. He’s been saying ‘I told you so’ for
 hours. But nobody ever wanted this to happen.
It isn’t a matter of wanting it or not,
It’s a matter of what you think you can accomplish.
 When the hunter goes out in the rain forest to seek food for his family, does he
 expect to control nature? No. He imagines that nature is beyond him. Beyond his
 understanding. Beyond his control. Maybe he prays to nature, to the fertility of the
 forest that provides for him. He prays because he knows he doesn’t control it. He’s
 at the mercy of it.
 “But you decide you won’t be at the mercy of nature. You decide you’ll control
 nature, and from that moment on you’re in deep trouble, because you can’t do it.
 Yet you have made systems that require you to do it. And you can’t do it—and you
 never have—and you never will. Don’t confuse things. You can make a boat, but
 you can’t make the ocean. You can make an airplane, but you can’t make the air.
 Your powers are much less than your dreams of reason would have you believe.
He’s lost me,
Where did Tim go? He seemed such
 a responsible boy.
I’m sure he’s trying to get control of the situation,
Like
 everybody else.
And Grant, too. What happened to Grant?
Timmy!
It’s the baby raptor,
Why is it doing that?
Is it scared?
I don’t know,
Tim,
They ate him,
Take it easy, kids,
Take them back
 someplace safe.
But—
Through there,
Take
 them to the control room, if you can. You should all be safe there.
What are you going to do?
I have a plan,
Now go on.
Hello. This is Grant.
Alan?
Alan?
Listen,
Just talk.
Alan, is that you?
Talk,
Alan. Speak to me, please.
…Alan?
Alan, it’s me. I don’t know if you can hear me.
Alan… please…
Alan, listen to me… Alan?
Alan?
Wow.
What happened?
I don’t know about computers,
Do something, Timmy,
What does that mean?
That happened before. It means auxiliary power
 is low. You have to turn on main power.
I do?
What are you doing now?
Hey! All right!
Dear God…
What did you do!
That’s it,
That’s it! You did it!
What about
 the ship?
The what?
The ship,
Maybe the ship was one of the waiting calls,
Maybe that way you
 could get the phone number!
7bERROR
598\
Is that it?
Pretty good, Timmy,
But they’re almost there.
Ah, hello, John, this is Freddy. Do you read
 me, over?
Ah, hello, John, this is Freddy, over?
Answer it,
Ah, hello, control. This is Freddy. Do you read me, over?
Hello, this is Tim Murphy, and I need you to—
Ah, say again, didn’t get that, John.
Don’t land the boat! Do you hear me?
Sounds like some damn kid.
Don’t land the ship! Come back to the island!
Did he—name was Murphy?
I didn’t get—name.
Let me do
 this. Can you get his name?
—got to be a joke or else—a—frigging
 ham operator—omething.
Can you hear me?
If you can hear me, answer
 me now, over.
Son,
we don’t know who the hell you are, but you’re
 not funny, and we’re about to dock and we’ve got work to do. Now, identify
 yourself properly or get off this channel.
Try this for identification, Captain Farrell,
If you don’t turn
 that boat around and return to this island immediately, you will be found in
 violation of Section 509 of the Uniform Maritime Act, you will be subject to
 revocation of license, penalties in excess of fifty thousand dollars, and five years in
 jail. Do you hear that?
Do you copy that, Captain Farrell?
I copy,
All
 ahead stern.
What’s the Uniform Maritime Act?
Who the hell knows?
I guess the hard part’s finished,
The hard part,
is just beginning.
Increasingly, the mathematics will demand the courage to
 face its implications.
Well,
at
 least disaster is averted.
What disaster is that?
Well,
they didn’t get free and overrun the world.
You were worried about that?
Surely that’s what was at stake,
These animals, lacking
 predators, might get out and destroy the planet.
You egomaniacal idiot,
Do you have any idea what you
 are talking about? You think you can destroy the planet? My, what intoxicating
 power you must have.
You can’t destroy this
 planet. You can’t even come close.
Most people believe,
that the planet is in jeopardy.
Well, it’s not,
All the experts agree that our planet is in trouble.
Let me tell you about our planet,
Our planet is four
 and a half billion years old. There has been life on this planet for nearly that long.
 Three point eight billion years. The first bacteria. And, later, the first multicellular
 animals, then the first complex creatures, in the sea, on the land. Then the great
 sweeping ages of animals—the amphibians, the dinosaurs, the mammals, each
 lasting millions upon millions of years. Great dynasties of creatures arising,
 flourishing, dying away. All this happening against a background of continuous
 and violent upheaval, mountain ranges thrust up and eroded away, cometary
 impacts, volcanic eruptions, oceans rising and falling, whole continents
 moving… Endless, constant and violent change… Even today, the greatest
 geographical feature on the planet comes from two great continents colliding,
 buckling to make the Himalayan mountain range over millions of years. The planet
 has survived everything, in its time. It will certainly survive us.
Just because it lasted a long time,
doesn’t mean
 it is permanent. If there was a radiation accident…
Suppose there was,
Let’s say we had a bad one, and all the
 plants and animals died, and the earth was clicking hot for a hundred thousand
 years. Life would survive somewhere—under the soil, or perhaps frozen in Arctic
 ice. And after all those years, when the planet was no longer inhospitable, life
 would again spread over the planet. The evolutionary process would begin again. It
 might take a few billion years for life to regain its present variety. And of course it
 would be very different from what it is now. But the earth would survive our folly.
 Life would survive our folly. Only we,
think it wouldn’t.
Well, if the ozone layer gets thinner—
There will be more ultraviolet radiation reaching the surface. So what?
Well. It’ll cause skin cancer.
Ultraviolet radiation is good for life. It’s powerful
 energy. It promotes mutation, change. Many forms of life will thrive with more UV
 radiation.
And many others will die out,
You think this is the first time such a thing has happened?
 Don’t you know about oxygen?
I know it’s necessary for life.
It is now,
But oxygen is actually a metabolic poison. It’s a
 corrosive gas, like fluorine, which is used to etch glass. And when oxygen was first
 produced as a waste product by certain plant cells—say, around three billion
 years ago—it created a crisis for all other life on our planet. Those plant cells were
 polluting the environment with a deadly poison. They were exhaling a lethal gas,
 and building up its concentration. A planet like Venus has less than one percent
 oxygen. On earth, the concentration of oxygen was going up rapidly—five, ten,
 eventually twenty-one percent! Earth had an atmosphere of pure poison!
 Incompatible with life!
So what is your point? That modern pollutants will
 be incorporated, too?
No,
My point is that life on earth can take care of itself. In the
 thinking of a human being, a hundred years is a long time. A hundred years ago,
 we didn’t have cars and airplanes and computers and vaccines… It was a whole
 different world. But to the earth, a hundred years is nothing. A million years is
 nothing. This planet lives and breathes on a much vaster scale. We can’t imagine
 its slow and powerful rhythms, and we haven’t got the humility to try. We have
 been residents here for the blink of an eye. If we are gone tomorrow, the earth will
 not miss us.
And we very well might be gone,
Yes,
We might.
So what are you saying? We shouldn’t care about the environment?
No, of course not.
Then what?
Let’s be clear. The planet is not
 in jeopardy. We are in jeopardy. We haven’t got the power to destroy the planet—or
 to save it. But we might have the power to save ourselves.
What the hell is it doing now?
Now it says there are fewer
 animals?
Probably.
Jurassic Park is finally coming under control.
Meaning what?
Equilibrium.
The fences have been down for hours,
The animals are mingling
 with each other. Populations reaching equilibrium—a true Jurassic equilibrium.
I don’t think it was supposed to happen,
The animals were
 never supposed to mix.
Well, they are.
Is it the way you imagined?
I don’t know what I imagined,
No, not
 exactly.
You know, it appears all the adult raptors are out right
 now.
We’ve got about an hour of good daylight left, Dr. Grant. If you
 want to try and find that nest.
Right,
I do.
I was thinking,
that, when the Costa Ricans come, they will
 probably imagine this island to be a military problem. Something to destroy as
 soon as possible.
Damn right,
They’ll bomb it from the air,
Perhaps napalm, perhaps nerve
 gas as well. But from the air.
I hope they do,
This island is too dangerous. Every animal on
 this island must be destroyed, and the sooner the better.
That’s not satisfactory.
Let’s get started.
I don’t think you understand, Alan,
It’s my opinion that this
 island is too dangerous. It must be destroyed. Every animal on this island must be
 destroyed, and that’s what the Costa Rican guard will do. I think we should leave
 it in their capable hands. Do you understand what I’m saying?
Perfectly,
Then what’s your problem?
It’s a military operation. Let them
 do it.
No,
We have
 to take care of it.
Leave it to the experts,
Listen, you
 little bastard, you have a responsibility to this situation and you’re going to start
 living up to it.
I am,
No, you’re not. You’ve shirked your responsibility all along, from the very
 beginning.
The hell—
You sold investors on an undertaking you didn’t fully understand. You were
 part owner of a business you failed to supervise. You did not check the activities of
 a man whom you knew from experience to be a liar, and you permitted that man
 to screw around with the most dangerous technology in human history. I’d say
 you shirked your responsibility.
Well, now I’m taking responsibility.
No,
You’re still shirking it. And you can’t do that any more.
What have we got for weapons?
We’ve got some control nets, and shock prods.
How good are these shock prods?
They’re like bang sticks for sharks. They have an explosive capacitor tip,
 delivers a shock on contact. High voltage, low amps. Not fatal, but it’s definitely
 incapacitating.
That’s not going to do it,
Not in the nest.
What nest?
The raptor nest,
The raptor nest?
Have you got any radio collars?
I’m sure we do,
Get one. And is there anything else that can be used for defense?
Well, get whatever you can.
Your island is a mess, Mr.
 Gennaro. Your experiment is a mess. It has to be cleaned up. But you can’t do
 that until you know the extent of the mess. And that means finding the nests on
 the island. Especially the raptor nests. They’ll be hidden. We have to find them,
 and inspect them, and count the eggs. We have to account for every animal born
 on this island. Then we can burn it down. But first we have a little work to do.
The raptors are localized in
 the southern area, down where the volcanic steam fields are. Maybe they like the
 warmth.
Is there any place to hide down there?
Turns out there is,
There’s massive concrete waterworks, to control
 flooding in the southern flatlands. Big underground area. Water and shade.
Then that’s where they’ll be.
I think there’s an entrance from the beach, too.
Tim, show us the cutaways on the waterworks.
Tim?
Just a minute,
I found
 something.
What is it?
It’s an unmarked storage room. I don’t know what’s there.
Then it might have weapons,
Damned Arnold,
He must have
 known this was here all along.
Maybe not,
He didn’t try to go here.
Well, then, Hammond knew. Somebody knew.
Where is Hammond now?
Still in the lodge.
I’ll be damned.
What is it?
MORO-12,
It’s an inhalation nerve gas. These are grenades.
 Lots and lots of grenades.
Let’s get started,
It likes me,
I’d be careful there,
They can give a nasty bite.
He likes me,
His name is Clarence.
Clarence?
Yes,
Is it a problem putting the
 collar on the animal?
I bet he’ll let me put
 it on him,
I wouldn’t try,
They’re unpredictable.
I bet he’ll let me,
I’ll be damned,
It’s a chameleon,
The other raptors couldn’t do that,
This wild animal
 must be different. By the way,
if they’re all born
 females, how do they breed? You never explained that bit about the frog DNA.
It’s not frog DNA,
It’s amphibian DNA. But the phenomenon
 happens to be particularly well documented in frogs. Especially West African frogs,
 if I remember.
What phenomenon is that?
Gender transition,
Actually, it’s just plain changing sex.
You’re kidding,
And what makes it happen?
Apparently the change is stimulated by an environment in which all the
 animals are of the same sex. In that situation, some of the amphibians will
 spontaneously begin to change sex from female to male.
And you think that’s what happened to the dinosaurs?
Until we have a better explanation, yes,
I think that’s what
 happened. Now, shall we find this nest?
Go on, shoo!
Go home!
What is it like, this nest?
Nobody knows,
But I thought you’d dug them up.
I’ve dug up fossil dinosaur nests,
But all fossils are distorted by
 the weight of millennia. We’ve made some hypotheses, some suppositions, but
 nobody really knows what the nests were like.
You have to realize: we don’t know all the details about
 the nesting behavior of living reptiles, like crocodiles and alligators. They’re
 difficult animals to study.
So adult alligators protect the young?
Yes,
And there is also a kind of group protection. Young alligators
 make a distinctive distress cry, and it brings any adult who hears it—parent or
 not—to their assistance with a full-fledged, violent attack. Not a threat display. A
 full-on attack.
Oh.
But dinos aren’t reptiles,
Exactly. The dinosaur nesting pattern could be much more closely related to
 that of any of a variety of birds.
So you actually mean you don’t know,
You
 don’t know what the nest is like?
No,
I don’t.
Well,
So much for the damn experts.
Doesn’t this bother you?
I mean, worry you?
We’ve got to do it,
Why isn’t he
 worried about it?
Maybe he is,
But he’s also thought about this for his whole life.
Was that the raptor?
I think so. Or another one. Juvenile, anyway.
Leading us on?
Maybe.
How smart are they?
If you think of them as birds,
then you have to wonder. Some new
 studies show the gray parrot has as much symbolic intelligence as a chimpanzee.
 And chimpanzees can definitely use language. Now researchers are finding that
 parrots have the emotional development of a three-year-old child, but their
 intelligence is unquestioned. Parrots can definitely reason symbolically.
But I’ve never heard of anybody killed by a parrot,
Where’d it go?
He’s gone.
No way,
No way I’m going down there.
You can’t see anything that way,
Let it adjust,
Sounds like the nest, all right,
But you can’t see anything,
No,
But I can hear.
Let’s get started.
You can’t be serious about going down there,
It doesn’t thrill me. I’ll go first, then Ellie, then you come after.
Now, wait a minute,
Why don’t we drop these
 nerve-gas grenades down the hole, then go down afterward? Doesn’t that make
 more sense?
Ellie, you got the flashlight?
What about it?
What do you say?
I’d like nothing better,
You ever
 seen anything die from poison gas?
No…
It generally causes convulsions. Bad convulsions.
Well, I’m sorry if it’s unpleasant, but—
Look,
We’re going into this nest to find out how many animals
 have hatched. If you kill the animals first, and some of them fall on the nests in
 their spasms, that will ruin our ability to see what was there. So we can’t do that.
But—
You made these animals, Mr. Gennaro.
I didn’t.
Your money did. Your efforts did. You helped create them. They’re your
 creation. And you can’t just kill them because you feel a little nervous now.
I’m not a little nervous,
I’m scared shi—
Follow me,
Tight fit.
What happened to him?
Alan?
I’m here.
Is everything all right, Alan?
Everything’s fine,
Everything… parad…
Is he waking up?
What did he say? Something about paradise?
I didn’t catch it,
Is there any problem about
 going outside?
I don’t think so, no,
I think this area is all right.
Well, look, I’m going outside for a bit.
All right,
I’ll be back soon.
All right.
I wish they had taken us with them to the
 nest.
It’s too dangerous for us, Lex,
We have to stay here. Hey, listen to
 this one.
That’s neat,
That’s better than the other one.
You can do it, too,
And if you push this, you get reverb.
Let me try,
Can we make it last longer?
Sure,
We just twist this thing here…
Come on, Timmy, I get to try it too. Come
 on. Let me make the noise.
Neat one,
Do it again.
Everything… looks
 different… on the other side,
On the other side?
When… shifts,
Shifts?
Paradigm,
Paradigm shifts?
Paradigm
No,
Not… paradigm… beyond…
Beyond paradigm?
Don’t care about… what… anymore…
What don’t you care about?
Anything,
Because… everything looks different… on the other
 side.
You’re crazy,
You’re crazy to do
 that!
Probably,
I’m not doing this,
Yes, you are.
I can’t do this. I can’t.
They’re waiting for you,
You have to.
Christ only knows what’s down there,
I’m telling you, I can’t do
 it.
You have to.
I can’t. You can’t make
 me.
I suppose not,
Ever felt a
 shock stick?
No.
Doesn’t do much,
Almost never fatal. Generally knocks you
 flat. Perhaps loosens your bowels. But it doesn’t usually have any permanent
 effect. At least, not on dinos. But, then, people are much smaller.
You wouldn’t.
I think you’d better go down and count those animals,
And you
 better hurry.
That’s it,
—okay?
He looks okay, yes.
He’s breathing…
Fine.
Can you hear?
Why is everybody whispering?
Because.
It’s a colony,
Four or six adults. The rest juveniles
 and infants. At least two hatchings. One last year and one this year. These babies
 look about four months old. Probably hatched in April.
Oh Jesus,
I don’t get it,
Why aren’t they attacking?
They must not see us. And there aren’t any eggs at the
 moment… Makes them more relaxed.
Relaxed?
How long do we have to stay here?
Long enough to do the count,
You think I can take it off ?
Just do it quickly.
Oo-kay,
Oh shit,
Don’t move,
Stay calm.
Jesus. Can we leave?
No,
But I think we can get some work done now.
What’s that total?
Thirty-four born,
And how many do you see?
I’ve been watching,
You’d
 have to take photos to be sure, but the snout markings of the infants are all
 different. My count is thirty-three.
And juveniles?
Twenty-two. But, Alan—do you notice anything funny about them?
Like what?
How they arrange themselves spatially. They’re falling into some kind of a
 pattern or arrangement in the room.
It’s pretty dark…
No, look. Look for yourself. Watch the little ones. When they are playing, they
 tumble and run every which way. But in between, when the babies are standing
 around, notice how they orient their bodies. They face either that wall, or the
 opposite wall. It’s like they line up.
I don’t know, Ellie. You think there’s a colony metastructure? Like bees?
No, not exactly,
It’s more subtle than that. It’s just a tendency.
And the babies do it?
No. They all do it. The adults do it, too. Watch them. I’m telling you, they line
 up.
Beats me,
Maybe there’s a breeze…
I don’t feel one, Alan.
What are they doing? Some kind of social organization expressed as spatial
 structure?
That doesn’t make sense,
Because they all do it.
I knew this thing would come in handy one
 day.
You have much use for that in court?
No.
My wife gave it to me,
for my
 birthday.
Well,
they’re not lined up
according to anything… I guess they’re sort of northeast-southwest, something
 like that.
Maybe they’re hearing something, turning their heads so they can
 hear…
Or maybe it’s just ritual behavior,
species-specific behavior that
 serves to identify them to one another. But maybe it doesn’t have any broader
 meaning.
Or maybe they’re weird. Maybe dinosaurs are weird. Or
 maybe it’s a kind of communication.
Why don’t they go outside?
They’re nocturnal.
Yes, but it almost seems like they’re hiding.
Shoo! Get out!
I don’t get it,
I don’t, either.
except that they clearly don’t like the sun.
Northeast-southwest. Same as before.
At least we know how they get outside the fence,
So that’s why they came out?
They must have heard it coming.
Oh, my God,
Those animals,
they sure are desperate to
 escape from here.
No,
They don’t want to escape at all.
They don’t?
No,
They want to migrate.
Migrating!
That’s fantastic!
Yes,
Where do you suppose they want to go?
I don’t know,
Please, you will come with us.
 Please, there is no time here.
They want us out of here now. They’re going to do it now!
Senor: are you in charge?
No,
I’m not in charge.
Who is in charge, please?
I don’t know.
Are you in
 charge?
No,
What about the others?
They’ve already taken off Harding and some workmen.
 Hammond had an accident. Found him on the hill near his bungalow. Must have
 fallen.
Is he all right?
No. Compys got him.
What about Malcolm?
Are you in charge?
No,
Please, señor, who is in charge?
Nobody,
We’ve never met,
My name is Marty Guitierrez. I’m a
 researcher here, at the Carara station.
You were the one who found the original specimen of the
 Procompsognathus.
That’s right, yes.
You must be eager to go home.
Yes,
I have only a few days left to dig before the winter sets in. In
 Montana, you know, the first snow usually comes in August.
Is that why the Hammond Foundation supported northern
 digs? Because intact genetic material from dinosaurs was more likely to be
 recovered from cold climates?
That’s what I presume, yes.
He was a clever man, Mr. Hammond.
The authorities won’t tell you,
Because they are afraid,
 and perhaps also resentful of you, for what you have done. But something very
 peculiar is happening in the rural regions.
Biting the babies?
No, thankfully, that has stopped. But something else. This spring, in the
 Ismaloya section, which is to the north, some unknown animals ate the crops in a
 very peculiar manner. They moved each day, in a straight line—almost as straight
 as an arrow—from the coast, into the mountains, into the jungle.
Like a migration,
Wouldn’t you say?
What crops?
Well, it was odd. They would only eat agama beans and soy, and sometimes
 chickens.
Foods rich in lysine. What happened to these animals?
Presumably,
they entered the jungles. In any case, they have
 not been found. Of course, it would be difficult to search for them in the jungle. A
 search party could spend years in the Ismaloya mountains, with nothing to show
 for it.
And we are being kept here because …
The government is worried. Perhaps there are more
 animals. More trouble. They are feeling cautious.
Do you think there are more animals?
I can’t say. Can you?
No,
I can’t say.
But you suspect?
Possibly there are. Yes.
I agree.
Probably they will send the children home,
There is no reason not
 to do that.
Enjoy your stay with us, Dr. Grant. It is a
 lovely country here.
You’re telling me we’re not going anywhere?
None of us is going anywhere, Dr. Grant,
