Christmas won't be Christmas without any presents,
It's so dreadful to be poor!
I don't think it's fair for some girls to have plenty of pretty things, and other 
girls nothing at all,
We've got Father and Mother, and each other,
We haven't got Father, and shall not have him for a long time.
t say "perhaps never," but each silently added it, thinking of Father 
far away, where the fighting was. 
Nobody spoke for a minute; then Meg said in an altered tone,  
"You know the reason Mother proposed not having any presents this 
Christmas was because it is going to be a hard winter for everyone; and she 
thinks we ought not to spend money for pleasure, when our men are 
suffering so in the army. We can
t." And Meg shook 
her head, as she thought regretfully of all the pretty things she wanted.  
"But I don
ve each 
got a dollar, and the army wouldn
ve wanted it so long," said Jo, who was 
a bookworm. 
"I planned to spend mine in new music," said Beth, with a little sigh, which 
no one heard but the hearth brush and kettle holder. 
"I shall get a nice box of Faber
 said 
Amy decidedly. 

t say anything about our money, and she won
s each buy what we want, and have a little fun. I
 cried Jo, examining the heels of her shoes 
in a gentlemanly manner. 
4

 
m 
longing to enjoy myself at home," began Meg, in the complaining tone again. 
"You don
 said Jo. 
re ready to fly out the 
window or cry?" 
"It
t practice well at all." And Beth looked at her rough hands with a sigh 
that any one could hear that time. 
"I don
 cried Amy, 
t have to go 
to school with impertinent girls, who plague you if you don
t rich, and 
insult you when your nose isn
 

d say so, and not talk about labels, as if Papa was a 
pickle bottle," advised Jo, laughing. 
"I know what I mean, and you needn
s proper to 
use good words, and improve your vocabilary," returned Amy, with dignity. 
"Don
t you wish we had the money Papa 
lost when we were little, Jo? Dear me! How happy and good we
 said Meg, who could remember better times. 

 

 

 observed Amy, with a reproving look at the 
long figure stretched on the rug. 
Jo immediately sat up, put her hands in her pockets, and began to whistle. 

t, Jo. It
 

s why I do it." 
"I detest rude, unladylike girls!" 
5
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "I hate affected, niminy-piminy chits!" 
"Birds in their little nests agree," sang Beth, the peacemaker, with such a 
funny face that both sharp voices softened to a laugh, and the "pecking" 
ended for that time. 
"Really, girls, you are both to be blamed," said Meg, beginning to lecture in 
her elder-sisterly fashion."You are old enough to leave off boyish tricks, and 
to behave better, Josephine. It didn
 

m not! And if turning up my hair makes me one, I
m twenty," cried Jo, pulling off her net, and shaking down a chestnut 
mane. "I hate to think I
s bad enough to be a girl, 
anyway, when I like boy
t get over my 
disappointment in not being a boy. And it
m 
dying to go and fight with Papa. And I can only stay home and knit, like a 
poky old woman!" 
And Jo shook the blue army sock till the needles rattled like castanets, and 
her ball bounded across the room. 
"Poor Jo! It
t be helped. So you must try to be contented 
with making your name boyish, and playing brother to us girls," said Beth, 
stroking the rough head with a hand that all the dish washing and dusting 
in the world could not make ungentle in its touch. 
"As for you, Amy," continued Meg, "you are altogether to particular and 
prim. Your airs are funny now, but you
t take care. I I like your nice manners and refined ways of speaking, 
when you don
s 
slang." 
"If Jo is a tomboy and Amy a goose, what am I, please?" asked Beth, ready 
to share the lecture. 
"You
 answered Meg warmly,  and no one 
contradicted her, for the `Mouse' was the pet of the family. 
As young readers like to know `how people look', we will take this moment to 
give them a little sketch of the four sisters, who sat knitting away in the 
twilight, while the December snow fell quietly without, and the fire crackled 
6
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 cheerfully within. It was a comfortable room, though the carpet was faded 
and the furniture very plain, for a good picture or two hung on the walls, 
books filled the recesses, chrysanthemums and Christmas roses bloomed in 
the windows, and a pleasant atmosphere of home peace pervaded it. 
Margaret, the eldest of the four, was sixteen, and very pretty,  being plump 
and fair, with large eyes, plenty of soft brown hair, a sweet mouth, and white 
hands, of which she was rather vain. Fifteen- year-old Jo was very tall, thin, 
and brown, and reminded one of a colt, for she never seemed to know what 
to do with her long limbs,  which were very much in her way. She had a 
decided mouth, a comical nose, and sharp, gray eyes, which appeared to see 
everything, and were by turns fierce, funny, or thoughtful. Her long, thick 
hair was her one beauty, but it was usually bundled into a net, to be out of 
her way. Round shoulders had Jo, big hands and feet, a flyaway look to her 
clothes, and the uncomfortable appearance of a girl who was rapidly 
shooting up into a woman and didn't like it. Elizabeth, or Beth, as everyone 
called her, was a rosy, smooth- haired, bright-eyed girl of thirteen, with a 
shy manner, a timid voice, and a ;peaceful expression which was seldom 
disturbed. Her father called her `Little Miss Tranquility', and the name 
suited her excellently, for she seemed to live in a happy world of her own, 
only venturing out to meet the few whom she trusted and loved. Amy, 
though the youngest, was a most important person, in her own opinion at 
least. A regular snow maiden, with blue eyes, and yellow hair curling on her 
shoulders, pale and slender, and always carrying herself like a young lady 
mindful of her manners. What the characters of the four sisters were we will 
leave to be found out. 
The clock struck six and, having swept up the hearth, Beth put a pair of 
slippers down to warm. Somehow the sight of the old shoes had a good effect 
upon the girls, for Mother was coming, and everyone brightened to welcome 
her. Meg stopped lecturing, and lighted the lamp, Amy got out of the easy 
chair without being asked,  and Jo forgot how tired she was as she sat up to 
hold the slippers nearer to the blaze. 

 

d get her some with my dollar," said Beth. 
"No, I shall!" cried Amy. 
"I
 began Meg, but Jo cut in with a decided,  
m the man of 
the family now Papa is away, and I shall provide the slippers, for he told me 
to take special care of Mother while he was gone." 
7
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "I
ll do," said Beth, "let
 

s like you, dear! What will we get?" exclaimed Jo. 
Everyone thought soberly for a minute, then Meg announced, as if the idea 
was suggested by the sight of her own pretty hands, "I shall give her a nice 
pair of gloves." 
"Army shoes, best to be had," cried Jo. 
"Some handkerchiefs, all hemmed," said Beth. 
"I
t cost much, so I
 added Amy. 

 asked Meg. 

t you remember how we used to do on our birthdays?" answered Jo. 
"I used to be so frightened when it was my turn to sit in the chair with the 
crown on, and see you all come marching round to give the presents, with a 
kiss. I liked the things and the kisses, but it was dreadful to have you sit 
looking at me while I opened the bundles," said Beth, who was toasting her 
face and the bread for tea at the same time. 
"Let Marmee think we are getting things for ourselves, and then surprise 
her. We must go shopping tomorrow afternoon, Meg. There is so much to do 
about the play for Christmas night," said Jo, marching up and down, with 
her hands behind her back, and her nose in the air. 
"I don
m getting too old for such 
things," observed Meg, who was as much a child as ever about `dressing-up
You won't stop, I know, as long as you can trail round in a white gown with 
your hair down, and wear gold-paper jewelry. You are the best actress we've 
got, and there'll be an end of everything if you quit the boards,
We 
ought to rehearse tonight. Come here, Amy, and do the fainting scene, for 
you are as stiff as a poker in that.
I can't help it. I never saw anyone faint, and I don't choose to make myself 
all black and blue, tumbling flat as you do. If I can go down easily, I'll drop. 
If I can't, I shall fall into a chair and be graceful. I don't care if Hugo does 
come at me with a pistol,
Do it this way. Clasp your hands so, and stagger across the room, crying 
frantically, `Roderigo Save me! Save me!' and away went Jo, with a 
melodramatic scream which was truly thrilling. 
Amy followed, but she poked her hands out stiffly before her,  and jerked 
herself along as if she went by machinery, and her 
 was more 
suggestive of pins being run into her than of fear and anguish. Jo gave a 
despairing groan, and Meg laughed outright, while Beth let her bread burn 
as she watched the fun with interest. 
s no use! Do the best you can when 
the time comes, and if the audience laughs, don
 

Ha! Ha!
It's the best we've had yet,
I don't see how you can write and act such splendid things,  Jo. You're a 
regular Shakespeare!
Not quite,
I do think THE WITCHES CURSE, an 
Operatic Tragedy is rather a nice thing, but I'd like to try McBETH, if we 
only had a trapdoor for Banquo. I always wanted to do the killing part. `Is 
that a dagger that I see before me?
No, it's the toasting fork, with Mother's shoe on it instead of the bread. 
Beth's stage-struck!
Glad to find you so merry, my girls,
 look about her which was truly delightful. She was not elegantly 
dressed, but a noble-looking woman, and the girls thought the gray cloak 
and unfashionable bonnet covered the most splendid mother in the world. 
9
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Well, dearies, how have you got on today? There was so much to do, getting 
the boxes ready to go tomorrow, that I didn
 
While making these maternal inquiries Mrs. March got her wet things off, 
her warm slippers on, and sitting down in the easy chair, drew Amy to her 
lap, preparing to enjoy the happiest hour of her busy day. The girls flew 
about, trying to make things comfortable, each in her own way. Meg 
arranged the tea table, Jo brought wood and set chairs, dropping, over
turning, and clattering everything she touched. Beth trotted to and fro 
between parlor kitchen, quiet and busy, while Amy gave directions to 
everyone, as she sat with her hands folded. 
As they gathered about the table, Mrs. March said, with a particularly happy 
face, 
ve got a treat for you after supper." 
A quick, bright smile went round like a streak of sunshine. Beth clapped her 
hands, regardless of the biscuit she held, and Jo tossed up her napkin, 
crying, "A letter! A letter! Three cheers for Father!" 
"Yes, a nice long letter. He is well, and thinks he shall get through the cold 
season better than we feared. He sends all sorts of loving wishes for 
Christmas, and an especial message to you girls," said Mrs. March, patting 
her pocket as if she had got a treasure there. 
"Hurry and get done! Don
 cried Jo, choking on her tea and dropping her bread, 
butter side down, on the carpet in her haste to get at the treat. 
Beth ate no more, but crept away to sit in her shadowy corner and brood 
over the delight to come, till the others were ready. 

 said Meg warmly. 

t I wish I could go as a drummer, a vivan--what
 exclaimed Jo, with a groan. 

 sighed Amy. 

Not for many months, dear, unless he is sick. He will stay and do his work 
faithfully as long as he can, and we won't ask for him back a minute sooner 
than he can be spared. Now come and hear the letter.
s 
heart over-flow with fatherly love and longing for the little girls at home. 
"Give them all of my dear love and a kiss. Tell them I think of them by day, 
pray for them by night, and find my best comfort in their affection at all 
times. A year seems very long to wait before I see them, but remind them 
that while we wait we may all work, so that these hard days need not be 
wasted. I know they will remember all I said to them, that they will be loving 
children to you, will do their duty faithfully, fight their bosom enemies 
bravely, and conquer themselves so beautifully that when I come back to 
them I may be fonder and prouder than ever of my little women." Everybody 
sniffed when they came to that part. Jo wasn
s shoulder and sobbed out, "I 
am a selfish girl! But I
t be disappointed 
in me by-and-by." 
We all will," cried Meg. "I think too much of my looks and hate to work, but 
won
 

ll try and be what he loves to call me, `a little woman
 
said Jo, thinking that keeping her temper at home was a much harder task 
than facing a rebel or two down South. 
Beth said nothing, but wiped away her tears with the blue army sock and 
began to knit with all her might, losing no time in doing the duty that lay 
nearest her, while she resolved in her quiet little soul to be all that Father 
hoped to find her when the year brought round the happy coming home. 
Mrs. March broke the silence that followed Jo's words, by saying in her 
cheery voice, 
 

 said Jo. 

 said 
Meg. 

t remember much about it, except that I was afraid of the cellar and 
the dark entry, and always liked the cake and milk we had up at the top. If I 
wasn
d rather like to play it over again," said Amy, 
who began to talk of renouncing childish things at the mature age of twelve. 
"We never are too old for this, my dear, because it is a play we are playing all 
the time in one way or another. Out burdens are here, our road is before us, 
and the longing for goodness and happiness is the guide that leads us 
through many troubles and mistakes to the peace which is a true Celestial 
City. Now, my little pilgrims, suppose you begin again, not in play, but in 
earnest, and see how far on you can get before Father comes home." 
"Really, Mother? Where are our bundles?" asked Amy, who was a very literal 
young lady. 
"Each of you told what your burden was just now, except Beth. I rather 
think she hasn
 said her mother. 

 
Beth's bundle was such a funny one that everybody wanted to laugh, but 
nobody did, for it would have hurt her feelings very much. 

 said Meg thoughtfully. 
s hard 
work and we forget, and don
 

 asked Jo, delighted with the fancy 
which lent a little romance to the very dull task of doing her duty. 
12
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
 replied Mrs. March. 
They talked over the new plan while old Hannah cleared the table, then out 
came the four little work baskets, and the needles flew as the girls made 
sheets for Aunt March. It was uninteresting sewing, but tonight no one 
grumbled. They adopted Jo's plan of dividing the long seams into four parts, 
and calling the quarters Europe, Asia, Africa, and America, and in that way 
got on capitally, especially when they talked about the different countries as 
they stitched their way through them. 
At nine they stopped work, and sang, as usual, before they went to bed. No 
one but Beth could get much music out of the old piano, but she had a way 
of softly touching the yellow keys and making a pleasant accompaniment to 
the simple songs they sang. Meg had a voice like a flute, and she and herr 
mother led the little choir. Amy chirped like a cricket, and Jo wandered 
through the airs at her own sweet will, always coming out at the wrong place 
with a croak or a quaver that spoiled the most pensive tune. They had 
always done this from the time they could lisp... 
Crinkle, crinkle, 'ittle 'tar,  
and it had become a household custom, for the mother was a born singer. 
The first sound in the morning was her voice as she went about the house 
singing like a lark, and the last sound at night was the same cheery sound, 
for the girls never grew too old for that familiar lullaby. 
13
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER TWO 
Jo was the first to wake in the gray dawn of Christmas morning. No 
stockings hung at the fireplace, and for a moment she felt as much 
disappointed as she did long ago, when her little sock fell down because it 
was crammed so full of goodies. Then she remembered her mother's promise 
and, slipping her hand under her pillow, drew out a little crimson-covered 
book. She knew it very well, for it was that beautiful old story of the best life 
ever lived, and Jo felt that it was a true guidebook for any pilgrim going on a 
long journey. She woke Meg with a 
 and bade her see 
what was under her pillow. A green-covered book appeared, with the same 
picture inside, and a few words written by their mother, which made their 
one present very precious in their eyes. Presently Beth and Amy woke to 
rummage and find their little books also, one dove-colored, the other blue, 
and all sat looking at and talking about them, while the east grew rosy with 
the coming day. 
In spite of her small vanities, Margaret had a sweet and pious nature, which 
unconsciously influenced her sisters, especially Jo, who loved her very 
tenderly, and obeyed her because her advice was so gently given. 

 said Meg seriously, looking from the tumbled head beside her to the 
two little night-capped ones in the room beyond, 
How good Meg is! Come, Amy, let's do as they do. 
I'll help you with the hard words, and they'' explain things if we don't 
understand,
I'm glad mine is blue,
Where is Mother?
Goodness only knows. some poor creeter came a-beggin', and your ma went 
straight off to see what was needed. There never was such a woman for 
givin' away vittles and drink, clothes and firin',
She will be back soon, I think, so fry your cakes, and have everything 
ready,
why, 
where is Amy's bottle of cologne?
She took it out a minute ago, and went off with it to put a ribbon on it, or 
some such notion,
How nice my handkerchiefs look, don't they? Hannah washed and ironed 
them for me, and I marked them all myself,
Bless the child! She's gone and put `Mother' on them instead of `M. March'. 
How funny!
Isn't that right? I thought it was better to do it so, because Meg's initials are 
M.M., and I don't want anyone to use these but Marmee,
It's all right, dear, and a very pretty idea, quite sensible too, for no one can 
ever mistake now. It will please her very much,  I know,
There's Mother. Hide the basket, quick!
Where have you been, and what are you hiding behind you?
Don't laugh at me, Jo! I didn't mean anyone should know till the time 
came. I only meant to change the little bottle for a big one, and I gave all my 
money to get it, and I'm truly trying not to be selfish any more.
, while 
Beth ran to the window, and picked her finest rose to ornament the stately 
bottle. 
"You see I felt ashamed of my present, after reading and talking about being 
good this morning, so I ran round the corner and changed it the minute I 
was up, and I
 
Another bang of the street door sent the basket under the sofa, and the girls 
to the table, eager for breakfast. 

 they all cried in chorus. 
m glad you began at once, and hope you will 
keep on. But I want to say one word before we sit down. Not far away from 
here lies a poor woman with a little newborn baby. Six children are huddled 
into one bed to keep from freezing, for they have no fire. There is nothing to 
eat over there, and the oldest boy came to tell me they were suffering hunger 
and cold. My girls, will you give them your breakfast as a Christmas 
present?" 
They were all unusually hungry, having waited nearly an hour,  and for a 
minute no one spoke, only a minute, for Jo exclaimed impetuously, "I
 

 asked Beth 
eagerly. 

 added Amy, heroically giving up 
the article she most liked. 
Meg was already covering the buckwheats, and piling the bread into one big 
plate. 

d do it," said Mrs. March, smiling as if satisfied. "You shall all 
go and help me, and when we come back we will have bread and milk for 
breakfast, and make it up at dinnertime." 
They were soon ready, and the procession set out. Fortunately it was early, 
and they went through back streets, so few people saw them, and no one 
laughed at the queer party. 
16
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 A poor, bare, miserable room it was, with broken windows, no fire, ragged 
bedclothes, a sick mother, wailing baby, and a group of pale, hungry 
children cuddled under one old quilt, trying to keep warm. 
How the big eyes stared and the blue lips smiled as the girls went in. 
"Ach, mein Gott! It is good angels come to us!" said the poor woman, crying 
for joy. 
"Funny angels in hoods and mittens," said Jo, and set them to laughing. 
In a few minutes it really did seem as if kind spirits had been at work there. 
Hannah, who had carried wood, made a fire, and stopped up the broken 
panes with old hats and her own cloak. Mrs.March gave the mother tea and 
gruel, and comforted her with promises of help, while she dressed the little 
baby as tenderly as if it had been her own. The girls meantime spread the 
table, set the children round the fire, and fed them like so many hungry 
birds, laughing, talking, and trying to understand the funny broken English. 
"Das ist gut!" "Die Engel-kinder!" cried the poor things as they ate and 
warmed their purple hands at the comfortable blaze. The girls had never 
been called angel children before, and thought it very agreeable, especially 
Jo, who had been considered a `Sancho
t get any of it. And when they went 
away,  leaving comfort behind, I think there were not in all the city four 
merrier people than the hungry little girls who gave away their breakfasts 
and contented themselves with bread and milk on Christmas morning. 
"That
 said Meg, as 
they set out their presents while their mother was upstairs collecting clothes 
for the poor Hummels. 
Not a very splendid show, but there was a great deal of love done up in the 
few little bundles, and the tall vase of red roses, white chrysanthemums, 
and trailing vines, which stood in the middle, gave quite an elegant air to the 
table. 

s coming! Strike up, Beth! Open the door, Amy! Three cheers for 
Marmee!" cried Jo, prancing about while Meg went to conduct Mother to the 
seat of honor. 
Beth played her gayest march, amy threw open the door, and Meg enacted 
escort with great dignity. Mrs. March was both surprised and touched, and 
smiled with her eyes full as she examined her presents and read the little 
17
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 notes which accompanied them. The slippers went on at once, a new 
handkerchief was slipped into her pocket, well scented with Amy
s content 
and took immense satisfaction in a pair of russet leather boots given her by 
a friend, who knew a lady who knew an actor. These boots, an old foil, and a 
slashed doublet once used by an artist for some picture, were Jo
A gloomy wood,
s voice, 
with an occasional shout when his feelings overcame him, were very 
impressive, and the audience applauded the moment he paused for breath. 
bowing with the air of one accustomed to public praise, he stole to the 
cavern and ordered Hagar to come forth with a commanding, "What ho, 
minion! I need thee!" 
Out came Meg, with gray horsehair hanging about her face, a red and black 
robe, a staff, and cabalistic signs upon her cloak. Hugo demanded a potion 
to make Zara adore him, and one destroy Roderigo. Hagar, in a fine 
dramatic melody, promised both, and proceeded to call up the spirit who 
would bring the love philter. 
Hither, hither, from thy home,  Airy sprite, I bid thee come! Born of roses, 
fed on dew, Charms and potions canst thou brew? Bring me here, with elfin 
speed,  The fragrant philter which I need. Make it sweet and swift and 
strong, Spirit, answer now my song! 
A soft strain of music sounded, and then at the back of the cave appeared a 
little figure in cloudy white, with glittering wings, golden hair, and a garland 
of roses on its head. Waving a wand, it sang... 
Hither I come, From my airy home,  Afar in the silver moon. Take the magic 
spell,  And use it well, Or its power will vanish soon! 
And dropping a small, gilded bottle at the witch
s shoulder, and was about to leap gracfully down when "Alas! Alas 
for Zara!" she forgot her train. It caught in the window, the tower tottered, 
leaned forward, fell with a crash, and buried the unhappy lovers in the 
ruins. 
A universal shriek arose as the russet boots waved wildly from the wreck 
and a golden head emerged, exclaiming, "I told you so! I told you so!" With 
wonderful presence of mind, Don Pedro,  the cruel sire, rushed in, dragged 
out his daughter, with a hasty aside... 
"Don
 and, ordering Roderigo up, banished 
him form the kingdom with wrath and scorn. Though decidedly shaken by 
the fall from the tower upon him,  Roderigo defied the old gentleman and 
refused to stir. This dauntless example fired Zara. She also defied her sire, 
and he ordered them both to the deepest dungeons of the castle. A stout 
little retainer came in with chains and led them away, looking very much 
frightened and evidently forgetting the speech he ought to have made. 
Act third was the castle hall, and here Hagar appeared, having come to free 
the lovers and finish Hugo. She hears him coming and hides, sees him put 
the potions into two cups of wine and bid the the timid little servant, 
 The 
servant takes Hugo aside to tell him something, and Hagar changes the 
cups for two others which are harmless. Ferdinando, the `minion', carries 
them away, and Hagar puts back the cup which holds the poison meant for 
Roderigo. Hugo, getting thirsty after a long warble, drinks it, loses his wits, 
and after a good deal of clutching and stamping, falls flat and dies, while 
Hagar informs him what she has done in a song of exquisite power and 
melody. 
This was a truly thrilling scene, though some persons might have thought 
that the sudden tumbling down of a quantity of long red hair rather marred 
20
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 the effect of the villain's death. He was called before the curtain, and with 
great propriety appeared, leading Hagar, whose singing was considered more 
wonderful than all the rest of the performance put together. 
Act fourth displayed the despairing Roderigo on the point of stabbing 
himself because he has been told that Zara has deserted him. Just as the 
dagger is at his heart, a lovely song is sung under his window, informing 
him that Zara is true but in danger, and he can save her if he will. A key is 
thrown in, which unlocks the door, and in a spasm of rapture he tears off 
his chains and rushes away to find and rescue his lady love. 
Act fifth opened with a stormy scene between Zara and Don Pedro. He 
wishes her to go into a convent, but she won't hear of it, and after a 
touching appeal, is about to faint when Roderigo dashes in and demands 
her hand. Don Pedro refuses, because he is not rich. They shout and 
gesticulate tremendously but cannot agree, and Rodrigo is about to bear 
away the exhausted Zara, when the timid servant enters with a letter and a 
bag from Hagar, who has mysteriously disappeared. The latter informs the 
party that she bequeaths untold wealth to the young pair and an awful 
doom to Don Pedro, if he doesn't make them happy. The bag is opened, and 
several quarts of tin money shower down upon the stage till it is quite 
glorified with the glitter. This entirely softens the stern sire. He consents 
without a murmur, all join in a joyful chorus, and the curtain falls upon the 
lovers kneeling to receive Don Pedro's blessing in attitudes of the most 
romantic grace. 
Tumultuous applause followed but received an unexpected check, for the cot 
bed, on which the dress circle was built, suddenly shut up and extinguished 
the enthusiastic audience. Roderigo and Don Pedro flew to the rescue, and 
all were taken out unhurt, though many were speechless with laughter. the 
excitement had hardly subsided when Hannah appeared, with 
s 
compliments, and would the ladies walk down to supper." 
This was a surprise even to the actors, and when they saw the table, they 
looked at one another in rapturous amazement. It was like Marmee to get up 
a little treat for them, but anything so fine as this was unheard of since the 
departed days of plenty. There was ice cream, actually two dishes of it, pink 
and white, and cake and fruit and distracting french bonbons and, in the 
middle of the table, four great bouquets of hot house flowers. 
It quite took their breath away, and they stared first at the table and then at 
their mother, who looked as if she enjoyed it immensely. "Is it fairies?" asked 
Amy. 
21
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Santa Claus," said Beth. 
"Mother did it." And Meg smiled her sweetest, in spite of her gray beard and 
white eyebrows. 
"Aunt March had a good fit and sent the supper," cried Jo, with a sudden 
inspiration. 
"All wrong. Old Mr. Laurence sent it," replied Mrs. March. 
"The Laurence boy
t know him!
Hannah told one of his servants about your breakfast party. He is an odd 
old gentleman, but that pleased him. He knew my father years ago, and he 
sent me a polite note this afternoon, saying he hoped I would allow him to 
express his friendly feeling toward my children by sending them a few trifles 
in honor of the day. I could not refuse, and so you have a little feast at night 
to make up for the bread-and-milk breakfast.
That boy; put it into his head, I know he did! He's a capital fellow, and I 
wish we could get acquainted. He looks as if he'd like to know us but he's 
bashful, and Meg is so prim she won't let me speak to him when we pass,
You mean the people who live in the big house next door, don't you?
My mother knows old Mr. Laurence,  but says he's very 
proud and doesn't like to mix with his neighbors. He keeps his grandson 
shut up, when he isn't riding or walking with his tutor, and makes him 
study very hard. We invited him to our party, but he didn't come. Mother 
says he's very nice, though he never speaks to us girls.
Our cat ran away once, and he brought her back, and we talked over the 
fence, and were getting on capitally, all about cricket, and so on, when he 
saw Meg coming, and walked off. I mean to know him some day, for he 
needs fun, I'm sure he does,
I like his manners, and he looks like a little gentleman, so I've no objection 
to your knowing him, if a proper opportunity comes. He brought the flowers 
himself, and I should have asked him in, if I had been sure what was going 
on upstairs. He looked so wistful as he went away, hearing the frolic and 
evidently having none of his own.
It's a mercy you didn't , Mother!
But 
we'll have another play sometime that he can see. Perhaps he'll help act. 
Wouldn't that be jolly?
I never had such a fine bouquet before! How pretty it is!
They are lovely. But Beth's roses are sweeter to me,
I wish I could send my bunch 
to Father. I'm afraid he isn't having such a merry Christmas as we are.
Jo! Jo! Where are you?
Here!
s 
favorite refuge, and here she loved to retire with half a dozen russets and a 
nice book, to enjoy the quiet and the society of a pet rat who lived near by 
and didn
Such fun! Only see! A regular note of invitation from Mrs. Gardiner for 
tomorrow night!
`Mrs. Gardiner would be happy to see Miss March and Miss Josephine at a 
little dance on New Year's Eve.' Marmee is willing we should go, now what 
shall we wear?
What's the use of asking that, when you know we shall wear our poplins, 
because we haven't got anything else?
If I only had a silk!
Mother says I may when I'm eighteen 
perhaps, but two years is an everlasting time to wait.
I'm sure our pops look like silk, and they are nice enough for us. Yours is 
as good as new, but I forgot the burn and the tear in mine. Whatever shall I 
do? The burn shows badly, and I can't take any out.
You must sit still all you can and keep your back out of sight. The front is 
all right. I shall have a new ribbon for my hair, and Marmee will lend me her 
little pearl pin, and my new slippers are lovely, and my gloves will do, 
though they aren't as nice as I'd like.
Mine are spoiled with lemonade, and I can't get any new ones, so I shall 
have to go without,
You must have gloves, or I won't go,
Gloves are more 
important than anything else. You can't dance without them, and if you 
don't I should be so mortified.
Then I'll stay still. I don't care much for 
company dancing. It's no fun to go sailing round. I like to fly about and cut 
capers.
You can't ask Mother for new ones, they are so expensive, and you are so 
careless. She said when you spoiled the others that she shouldn't get you 
any more this winter. Can't you make them do?
I can hold them crumpled up in my hand, so no one will know how stained 
they are. That's all I can do. No! I'll tell you how we can manage, each wear 
one good one and carry a bad one. Don't you see?
Your hands are bigger than mine, and you will stretch my glove dreadfully,
Then I'll go without. I don't care what people say!
You may have it, you may! Only don't stain it, and do behave nicely. Don't 
put your hands behind you, or stare, or say `Christopher Columbus!' will 
you?
Don't worry about me. I'll be as prim ad I can and not get into any scrapes, 
if I can help it. Now go and answer your note, and let me finish this splendid 
story.
, look over her dress,  and sing 
blithely as she did up her one real lace frill, while Jo finished her story, her 
four apples, and had a game of romps with Scrabble. 
On New Year
. Simple as the toilets were, there 
was a great deal of running up and down, laughing and talking, and at one 
time a strong smell of burned hair pervaded the house. Meg wanted a few 
curls about her face, and Jo undertook to pinch the papered locks with a 
pair of hot tongs. 
"Ought they to smoke like that?" asked Beth from her perch on the bed. 
"It
 replied Jo.  

s like burned feathers," observed Amy, smoothing her 
own pretty curls with a superior air. 
"There, now I
ll see a cloud of little ringlets," 
said Jo, putting down the tongs. 
25
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 She did take off the papers, but no cloud of ringlets appeared, for the hair 
came with the papers, and the horrified hairdresser laid a row of little 
scorched bundles on the bureau before her victim. 
"Oh, oh, oh! What have you done? I
t go! My hair, oh, my 
hair!" wailed Meg, looking with despair at the uneven frizzle on her forehead. 
"Just my luck! You shouldn
m so sorry, but the tongs were too hot, and so I
 groaned poor Jo, regarding the little black pancakes with tears of 
regret. 

t spoiled. Just frizzle it, and tie your ribbon so the ends come on your 
forehead a bit, and it will look like the last fashion. I
 said Amy consolingly. 

d let my hair alone," cried Meg 
petulantly. 
"So do I, it was so smooth and pretty. But it will soon grow out again," said 
Beth, coming to kiss and comfort the shorn sheep. 
After various lesser mishaps, Meg was finished at last, and by the united 
exertions of the entire family Jo
s in silvery drab, with a blue 
velvet snood, lace frills, and the pearl pin. Jo in maroon, with a stiff, 
gentlemanly linen collar, and a white chrysanthemum or two for her only 
ornament. Each put on one nice light glove, and carried one soiled one, and 
all pronounced the effect "quite easy and fine". Meg
s 
nineteen hairpins all seemed stuck straight into her head,  which was not 
exactly comfortable, but, dear me, let us be elegant or die. 
"Have a good time, dearies!" said Mrs. March, as the sisters went daintily 
down the walk. "Don
 As the gate clashed behind them, a voice cried from a 
window... 

 

 cried Jo,  adding with 
a laugh as they went on, 
It is one of her aristocratic tastes, and quite proper, for a real lady is always 
known by neat boots, gloves, and handkerchief,
 of her own. 
"Now don
 said Meg, as she turned from the glass in 
Mrs. Gardiner's dressing room after a prolonged prink. 
 
returned Jo, giving her collar a twitch and her head a hasty brush. 

t ladylike. I
t shake hands if you are introduced to anyone. It isn
 

t that music gay?" 
Down they went, feeling a trifle timid, for they seldom went to parties, and 
informal as this little gathering was, it was an event to them. Mrs. Gardiner, 
a stately old lady, greeted them kindly and handed them over to the eldest of 
her six daughters. Meg knew Sallie and was at her ease very soon, but Jo, 
who didn
. 
"Dear me, I didn
 stammered Jo,  preparing to back 
out as speedily as she had bounced in. 
But the boy laughed and said pleasantly, though he looked a little startled, 

t mind me, stay if you like." 
27
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Shan
 

t know many people and felt 
rather strange at first, you know." 
"So did I. Don
d rather." 
The boy sat down again and looked at his pumps, till Jo said, trying to be 
polite and easy, "I think I
t you?" 
"Next door." And he looked up and laughed outright, for Jo
We did have such a good time over your nice Christmas present.
Grandpa sent it.
But you put it into his head, didn't you, now?
How is your cat, Miss March?
Nicely, thank you, Mr. Laurence. But I am not Miss March, I'm only Jo,
I'm not Mr. Laurence, I'm only Laurie.
Laurie Laurence, what an odd name.
My first name is theodore, but I don't like it, for the fellows called me Dora, 
so I made the say Laurie instead.
I hate my name, too, so sentimental! I wish every one would say Jo instead 
of Josephine. How did you make the boys stop calling you Dora?
I thrashed `em.
I can't thrash Aunt March, so I suppose I shall have to bear it.
Don't you like to dance, Miss Jo?
I like it well enough if there is plenty of room, and everyone is lively. In a 
place like this I'm sure to upset something, tread on people's toes, or do 
something dreadful, so I keep out of mischief and let Meg sail about. Don't 
you dance?
Sometimes. You see I've been abroad a good many years, and haven't been 
into company enough yet to know how you do things here.
Abroad!.
Oh, tell me about it! I love dearly to hear people 
describe their travels.
t seem to know where to begin, but Jo
Don't I wish I'd been there!
Did you go to Paris?
We spent last winter there.
Can you talk French?
We were not allowed to speak anything else at Vevay.
Do say some! I can read it, but can't pronounce.
Quel nom a cetter jeune demoiselle en les pantoulles jolis?
How nicely you do it! Let me see...you said, `Who is the young lady in the 
pretty slippers', didn't you?
Oui, mademoiselle.
It's my sister Margaret, and you knew it was! Do you think she is pretty?
Yes, she makes me think of the German girls, she looks so fresh and quiet, 
and dances like a lady.
s bashfulness soon wore off, for Jo
 better than ever and took 
several good looks at him, so that she might describe him to the girls, for 
29
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 they had no brothers, very few male cousins, and boys were almost 
unknown creatures to them. 
"Curly black hair, brown skin, big black eyes, handsome nose, fine teeth, 
small hands and feet, taller than I am, very polite, for a boy, and altogether 
jolly. Wonder how old he is?" 
It was on the tip of Jo
I suppose you are going to college soon? I see you pegging away at your 
books, no, I mean studying hard.
 
which had escaped her. 
Laurie smiled but didn
Not for 
a year or two. I won't go before seventeen,  anyway.
Aren't you but fifteen?
Sixteen, next month.
How I wish I was going to college! You don't look as if you liked it.
I hate it! Nothing but grinding or skylarking. And I don't like the way fellows 
do either, in this country.
What do you like?
To live in Italy, and to enjoy myself in my own way.
That's a splendid polka! Why don't you go and 
try it?
If you will come too,
I can't, for I told meg I wouldn't, because...
Because, what?
You won't tell?
Never!
Well, I have a bad trick of standing before the fire, and so I burn my frocks, 
and I scorched this one, and though it's nicely mended, it shows, and Meg 
30
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 told me to keep still so no one would see it. You may laugh, if you want to. It 
is funny, I know.
t laugh. He only looked dawn a minute, and the expression 
of his face puzzled Jo when he said very gently,  "Never mind that. I
s a long hall out there, and we can dance 
grandly, and no one will see us. Please come." 
Jo thanked him and gladly went, wishing she had two neat gloves when she 
saw the nice, pearl-colored ones her partner wore. The hall was empty, and 
they had a grand polka, for Laurie danced well,  and taught her the German 
step, which delighted Jo, being full of swing and spring. When the music 
stopped, they sat down on the stairs to get their breath, and Laurie was in 
the midst of an account of a students
I've sprained my ankle. That stupid high heel turned and gave me a sad 
wrench. It aches so, I can hardly stand, and I don't know how I'm ever going 
to get home,
I knew you'd hurt your feet with those silly shoes. I'm sorry. But I don't see 
what you can do, except get a carriage, or stay here all night,
I can't have a carriage without its costing ever so much. I dare say I can't 
get one at all, for most people come in their own, and it's a long way to the 
stable, and no one to send.
I'll go.
No, indeed! It's past nine, and dark as Egypt. I can't stop here, for the 
house is full. Sallie has some girls staying with her. I'll rest till Hannah 
comes, and then do the best I can.
I'll ask Laurie. He will go,
 looking relieved as the idea occurred to 
her. 

t ask or tell anyone. Get me my rubbers, and put these 
slippers with our things. I can
 

ll stay with you. I
 

m so tired I can
 
31
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 So Meg reclined, with rubbers well hidden, and Jo went blundering away to 
the dining room, which she found after going into a china closet, and 
opening the door of a room where old Mr. Gardiner was taking a little private 
refreshment. Making a dart at the table, she secured the coffee, which she 
immediately spilled, thereby making the front of her dress as bad as the 
back. 

 exclaimed Jo, finishing Meg's glove by 
scrubbing her gown with it. 

 said a friendly voice. And there was Laurie, with a full cup 
in one hand and a plate of ice in the other. 

 answered Jo, glancing dismally from the 
stained skirt to the coffee-colored glove. 

 

ll show you where she is. I don
 
Jo led the way, and as if used to waiting on ladies, Laurie drew up a little 
table, brought a second installment of coffee and ice for Jo, and was so 
obliging that even particular Meg pronounced him a `nice boy'. They had a 
merry time over the bonbons and mottoes, and were in the midst of a quiet 
game of BUZZ, with two or three other young people who had strayed in, 
when Hannah appeared. Meg forgot her foot and rose so quickly that she 
was forced to catch hold of Jo, with an exclamation of pain. 

t say anything," she whispered, adding aloud, "It
s all," and limped upstairs to put her things on. 
Hannah scolded, Meg cried, and Jo was at her wits
s carriage, which had just come for him, he said. 
"It
t mean to go yet?" began Jo. looking relieved but 
hesitating to accept the offer. 
32
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "I always go early, I do, truly! Please let me take you home. It
 
That settled it, and telling him of Meg's mishap, Jo gratefully accepted and 
rushed up to bring down the rest of the party. Hannah hated rain as much 
as a cat does so she made no trouble, and they rolled away in the luxurious 
close carriage, feeling very festive and elegant. Laurie went on the box so 
Meg could keep her foot up, and the girls talked over their party in freedom. 

 asked Jo, rumpling up her hair, and making 
herself comfortable. 
"Yes, till I hurt myself. Sallie
 answered Meg, cheering up at the thought. 

 

 

t help laughing. Did you hear us?" 
"No, but it was very rude. What were you about all that time,  hidden away 
there?" 
Jo told her adventures, and by the time she had finished they were at home. 
With many thanks, they said good night and crept in,  hoping to disturb no 
one, but the instant their door creaked, two little nightcaps bobbed up, and 
two sleepy but eager voices cried out... 
"Tell about the party! Tell about the party!" 
With what Meg called `a great want of manners
I declare, it really seems like being a fine young lady, to come home from 
the party in a carriage and sit in my dressing gown wit a maid to wait on 
me,
I don't believe fine young ladies enjoy themselves a bit more than we do, in 
spite of our burned hair, old gowns, one glove apiece and tight slippers that 
33
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 sprain our ankles when we are silly enough to wear them,
Oh, dear, how hard it does seem to take up our packs and go on,
I wish it was Christmas or New Year's all the time. Wouldn't it be fun?
We shouldn't enjoy ourselves half so much as we do now. But it does seem 
so nice to have little suppers and bouquets,  and go to parties, and drive 
home, and read and rest, and not work. It's like other people, you know, and 
I always envy girls who do such things, I'm so fond of luxury,
Well, we can't have it, so don't let us grumble but shoulder our bundles and 
trudge along as cheerfully as Marmee does. I'm sure Aunt March is a regular 
Old Man of the Sea to me, but I suppose when I've learned to carry her 
without complaining, she will tumble off, or get so light that I shan't mind 
her.
s fancy and put her in good spirits, but Meg didn
Where's the use of looking nice, when no one sees me but those cross 
midgets, and no one cares whether I'm pretty or not?
I shall have to toil and moil all my days, 
with only little bits of fun now and then, and get old and ugly and sour, 
because I'm poor and can't enjoy my life as other girls do. It's a shame!
t at all agreeable at 
breakfast time. Everyone seemed rather out of sorts and inclined to croak. 
Beth had a headache and lay on the sofa, trying to comfort herself with the 
cat and three kittens. Amy was fretting because her lessons were not 
learned, and she couldn
t suit her. 
35
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "There never was such a cross family!" cried Jo, losing her temper when she 
had upset an inkstand, broken both boot lacings, and sat down upon her 
hat. 
"You
 returned Amy, washing out the sum that 
was all wrong with the tears that had fallen on her slate. 

t keep these horrid cats down cellar I
 exclaimed Meg angrily as she tried to get rid of the kitten which 
had scrambled up her back and stuck like a burr just out of reach. 
Jo laughed, Meg scolded, Beth implored, and Amy wailed because she 
couldn't remember how much nine times twelve was. 

 cried Mrs. March, crossing 
out the third spoiled sentence in her letter. 
There was a momentary lull, broken by Hannah, who stalked in, laid two 
hot turnovers on the table, and stalked out again. These turnovers were an 
institution, and the girls called them `muffs', for they had no others and 
found the hot pies very comforting to their hands on cold mornings. 
Hannah never forgot to make them, no matter how busy or grumpy she 
might be, for the walk was long and bleak. The poor things got no other 
lunch and were seldom home before two. 

ll come home regular angels. Now 
then, Meg!" And Jo tramped away, feeling that the pilgrims were not setting 
out as they ought to do. 
They always looked back before turning the corner, for their mother was 
always at the window to nod and smile, and wave her hand to them. 
Somehow it seemed as if they couldn
If Marmee shook her fist instead of kissing her hand to us, it would serve 
us right, for more ungrateful wretches than we are were never seen,
Don't use such dreadful expressions,
I like good strong words that mean something,
Call yourself any names you like, but I am neither a rascal nor a wretch 
and I don't choose to be called so.
You're a blighted being, and decidedly cross today because you can't sit in 
the lap of luxury all the time. Poor dear, just wait till I make my fortune, and 
you shall revel in carriages and ice cream and high-heeled slippers, and 
posies, and red-headed boys to dance with.
How ridiculous you are, Jo!
Lucky for you I am, for if I put on crushed airs and tried to be dismal, as 
you do, we should be in a nice state. Thank goodness, I can always find 
something funny to keep me up. Don't croak any more, but come home jolly, 
there's a dear.
, and her chief trouble was 
poverty. She found it harder to bear than the others because she could 
remember a time when home was beautiful, life full of ease and pleasure,  
and want of any kind unknown. She tried not to be envious or discontented, 
but it was very natural that the young girl should long for pretty things, gay 
friends, accomplishments, and a happy life. At the Kings
s older sisters were just out, and Meg caught 
frequent glimpses of dainty ball dresses and bouquets, heard lively gossip 
about theaters, concerts, sleighing parties, and merrymakings of all kinds, 
and saw money lavished on trifles which would have been so precious to 
her. Poor Meg seldom complained, but a sense of injustice made her feel 
37
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 bitter toward everyone sometimes, for she had not yet learned to know how 
rich she was in the blessings which alone can make life happy. 
Jo happened to suit Aunt March, who was lame and needed an active 
person to wait upon her. The childless old lady had offered to adopt one of 
the girls when the troubles came,  and was much offended because her offer 
was declined. Other friends told the Marches that they had lost all chance of 
being remembered in the rich old lady
We can't give up our girls for a dozen fortunes. Rich or poor, we will keep 
together and be happy in one another.
t speak to them for a time, but happening to meet Jo at 
at a friend
s fancy, and she proposed to take her for a companion. This did not 
suit Jo at all, but she accepted the place since nothing better appeared and, 
to every one
t bear it longer, but Aunt March always cleared up quickly, and sent 
for her to come back again with such urgency that she could not refuse, for 
in her heart she rather liked the peppery old lady. 
I suspect that the real attraction was a large library of fine books, which was 
left to dust and spiders since Uncle March died. Jo remembered the kind old 
gentleman, who used to let her build railroads and bridges with his big 
dictionaries, tell her stories about queer pictures in his Latin books, and 
buy her cards of gingerbread whenever he met her in the street. The dim, 
dusty room, with the busts staring down from the tall bookcases, the cozy 
chairs, the globes, and best of all, the wilderness of books in which she 
could wander where she liked, made the library a region of bliss to her. 
The moment Aunt March took her nap, or was busy with company, Jo 
hurried to this quiet place, and curling herself up in the easy chair, 
devoured poetry, romance, history, travels, and pictures like a regular 
bookworm. But, like all happiness, it did not last long, for as sure as she 
had just reached the heart of the story, the sweetest verse of a song, or the 
most perilous adventure of her traveler, a shrill voice called, "Josy-phine! 
Josy-phine! and she had to leave her paradise to wind yarn, wash the 
poodle, or read Belsham
s ambition was to do something very splendid. What it was, she had no 
idea as yet, but left it for time to tell her, and meanwhile, found her greatest 
38
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 affliction in the fact that she couldn
s was 
just what she needed, and the thought that she was doing something to 
support herself made her happy in spite of the perpetual "Josy-phine!" 
Beth was too bashful to go to school.It had been tried,  but she suffered so 
much that it was given up, and she did her lessons at home with her father. 
Even when he went away,  and her mother was called to devote her skill and 
energy to Soldiers
I hope 
you'll have a good night, my poor dear.
 as Jo said, because she 
couldn
t keep in tune, when she was all alone. 
She sang like a little lark about her work, never was too tired for Marmee 
and the girls, and day after day said hopefully to herself," I know I
m good." 
There are many Beths in the world, shy and quiet, sitting in corners till 
needed, and living for others so cheerfully  that no one sees the sacrifices till 
the little cricket on the hearth stops chirping, and the sweet, sunshiny 
presence vanishes, leaving silence and shadow behind. 
If anybody had asked Amy what the greatest trial of her life was, she would 
have answered at once, "My nose." When she was a baby, Jo had accidently 
dropped her into the coal hod,  and Amy insisted that the fall had ruined her 
nose forever. It was not big nor red, like poor `Petrea
, it was only 
ratherflat, and all the pinching in the world could not give it an aristocratic 
point. No one minded it but herself, and it was doing its best to grow, but 
Amy felt deeply the want of a Grecian nose, and drew whole sheets of 
handsome ones to console herself. 
"Little Raphael," as her sisters called her, had a decided talent for drawing, 
and was never so happy as when copying flowers, designing fairies, or 
illustrating stories with queer specimens of art. Her teachers complained 
that instead of doing her sums she covered her slate with animals, the blank 
pages of her atlas were used to copy maps on, and caricatures of the most 
ludicrous description came fluttering out of all her books at unlucky 
moments. She got through her lessons as well as she could, and managed to 
escape reprimands by being a model of deportment. She was a great favorite 
with her mates,  being good-tempered and possessing the happy art of 
pleasing without effort. Her little airs and graces were much admired,  so 
were her accomplishments, for besides her drawing, she could play twelve 
tunes, crochet, and read French without mispronouncing more than two
thirds of the words. She had a plaintive way of saying, "When Papa was rich 
we did so-and-so," which was very touching, and her long words were 
considered `perfectly elegant
s clothes. Now Florence
t a particle of taste, and Amy suffered deeply at having to wear a 
red instead of a blue bonnet, unbecoming gowns, and fussy aprons that did 
not fit. Everything was good, well made, and little worn, but Amy
My only comfort,
is that Mother 
doesn't take tucks in my dresses whenever I'm naughty, as Maria Parks's 
mother does. My dear, it's really dreadful, for sometimes she is so bad her 
frock is up to her knees, and she can't come to school. When I think of this 
deggerredation, I fell that I can bear even my flat nose and purple gown with 
yellow skyrockets on it.
s confidante and monitor, and by some strange attraction of 
opposites Jo was gentle Beth
 they called 
it, and put their sisters in the places of discarded dolls with the maternal 
instinct of litte women. 
"Has anybody got anything to tell? It
m really 
dying for some amusement," said Meg, as they sat sewing together that 
evening. 
"I had a queer time with Aunt today, and, as I got the best of it, I
 began Jo, who dearly loved to tell stories. 
I wish I could, and be done with it,
Then she gave me a long lecture on my sins, and told me to sit and think 
them over while she just `lost' herself for a moment. She never finds herself 
very soon, so the minute her cap began to bob like a top-heavy dahlia, I 
whipped the VICAR OF WAKEFIELD out of my pocket, and read away, with 
one eye on him and one on Aunt. I'd just got to where they all tumbled into 
the water when I forgot and laughed out loud. Aunt woke up and, being 
more good-natured after her nap, told me to read a bit and show what 
frivolous work I preferred to the worthy and instructive Belsham. I did my 
very best, and she liked it, though she only said... 

t understand what it
 
41
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
I'm afraid it 
tires you, ma'am. Shan't I stop now?
She caught up her knitting, which had dropped out of her hands, gave me a 
sharp look through her specs, and said, in hershort way, `Finish the 
chapter, and don't be impertinent, miss'.
Did she own she liked it?
Oh, bless you, no! But she let old Belsham rest, and when I ran back after 
my gloves this afternoon, there she was, so hard at the Vicar that she didn't 
hear me laugh as I danced a jig in the hall because of the good time coming. 
What a pleasant life she might have if only she chose! I don't envy her much, 
in spite of her money, for after all rich people have about as many worries as 
poor ones, I think,
That reminds me,
that I've got something to tell. It isn't funny, 
like Jo's story, but I thought about it a good deal as I came home. At the 
Kings' today I found everybody in a flurry,  and one of the children said that 
her oldest brother had done something dreadful, and Papa had sent him 
away. I heard Mrs. King crying and Mr. King talking very loud, and Grace 
and Ellen turned away their faces when they passed me, so I shouldn't see 
how red and swollen their eyes were. I didn't ask any questions, of course, 
but I felt so sorry for them and was rather glad I hadn't any wild brothers to 
do wicked things and disgrace the family.
I think being disgraced in school is a great deal tryinger than anything bad 
boys can do,
Susie Perkins came to school today with a lovely red 
carnelian ring. I wanted it dreadfully, and wished I was her with all my 
might. Well, she  drew a picture of Mr. Davis, with a monstrous nose and a 
hump,  and the words, `Young ladies, my eye is upon you!' coming out of his 
mouth in a balloon thing. We were laughing over it when all of a sudden his 
eye was on us, and he ordered Susie to bring up her slate. She was 
parrylized with fright, but she went, and oh, what do you think he did? He 
took her by the ear--the ear! Just fancy how horrid!--and led her to the 
recitation platform, and made her stand there half and hour, holding the 
slate so everyone could see.
Didn't the girls laugh at the picture?
Laugh? Not one! They sat still as mice, and Susie cried quarts, I know she 
did. I didn't envy her then, for I felt that millions of carnelian rings wouldn't 
42
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 have made me happy after that. I never, never should have got over such a 
agonizing mortification.
I saw something I liked this morning, and I meant to tell it at dinner, but I 
forgot,
s topsy-turvy basket in order as she talked. 
"When I went to get some oysters for Hannah,  Mr. Laurence was in the fish 
shop, but he didn
t any dinner for her children, and had been disappointed 
of a day
, rather crossly, so 
she was going away, looking hungry and sorry, when Mr. Laurence hooked 
up a big fish with the crooked end of his cane and held it out to her. She 
was so glad and surprised she took it right into her arms, and thanked him 
over and over. He told her to go along and cook it
t it good of him? Oh, she did look so funny, hugging the big, 
slippery fish, and hoping Mr. Laurence
." 
When they had laughed at Beth
As I sat cutting out blue flannel 
jackets today at the rooms, I felt very anxious about Father, and thought 
how lonely and helpless we should be , if anything happened to him. It was 
not a wise thing to do, but I kept on worrying till an old man came in with 
an order for some clothes. He sat down near me, and I began to talk to him, 
for he looked poor and tired and anxious. 

 I asked, for the note he brought was not to 
me. "Yes, ma
m 
going to the other, who is very sick in a Washington hospital.
`You have done a great deal for your country, sir, ' I said,  feeling respect 
now, instead of pity. 

am. I
t, I give my boys, and give 
 
"He spoke so cheerfully, looked so sincere, and seemed so glad to give his 
all, that I was ashamed of myself. I
 

 said Jo, after a 
minute's silence. 
Mrs. March smiled and began at once, for she had told stories to this little 
audience for many years, and knew how to please them. 

(Here the listeners 
stole sly looks at one another, and began to sew diligently.) 
 or `If 
we could only do that, 
" (Here Jo looked 
up quickly, as if about to speak, but changed her mind, seeing that the story 
was not done yet.) 
"Being sensible girls, they decided to try her advice, and soon were surprised 
to see how well off they were. One discovered that money couldn
s houses,  another that, though she 
was poor, she was a great deal happier, with her youth, health, and good 
spirits, than a certain fretful, feeble old lady who couldn
s advice." 
"Now, Marmee, that is very cunning of you to turn our own stories against 
us, and give us a sermon instead of a romance!" cried Meg. "I like that kind 
of sermon. It
 said Beth thoughtfully, 
putting the needles straight on Jo's cushion. 
44
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
t complain near as much as the others do, and I shall be more careful 
than ever now, for I
s downfall," said Amy 
morally. 
"We needed that lesson, and we won
" added Jo, who could not,  for the life of her, help getting a 
morsel of fun out of the little sermon, though she took it to heart as much 
as any of them. 
45
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER FIVE 
"What in the world are you going to do now, Jo." Asked Meg one snowy 
afternoon, as her sister came tramping through the hall, in rubber boots, 
old sack, and hood, with a broom in one hand and a shovel in the other. 
"Going out for exercise," answered Jo with a mischievous twinkle in her 
eyes. 
"I should think two long walks this morning would have been enough! It
 
said Meg with a shiver. 

t keep still all day, and not being a pussycat, I don
m going to find some." 
Meg went back to toast her feet and read IVANHOE, and Jo began to dig 
paths with great energy. The snow was light, and with her broom she soon 
swept a path all round the garden, for Beth to walk in when the sun came 
out and the invalid dolls needed air. Now, the garden separated the Marches
s lively fancy, this fine house seemed a kind of enchanted palace, full 
of splendors and delights which no one enjoyed. She had long wanted to 
behold these hidden glories, and to know the Laurence boy, who looked as if 
he would like to be known, if he only knew how to begin. Since the party, 
she had been more eager than ever,  and had planned many ways of making 
friends with him, but he had not been seen lately, and Jo began to think he 
had gone away, when she one day spied a brown face at an upper window, 
46
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 looking wistfully down into their garden, where Beth and Amy were snow
balling one another. 
"That boy is suffering for society and fun," she said to herself. "His grandpa 
does not know what
ve a 
great mind to go over and tell the old gentleman so!" 
The idea amused Jo. who liked to do daring things and was always 
scandalizing Meg by her queer performances. The plan of `going over
There he is,
Poor boy! All alone and sick this dismal day. It's a 
shame! I'll toss up a snowball and make him look out, and then say a kind 
word to him.
How do you do? Are you sick?
Better, thank you. I've had a bad cold, and been shut up a week.
I'm sorry. What do you amuse yourself with?
Nothing. It's dull as tombs up here.
Don't you read?
Not much. They won't let me.
Can't somebody read to you?
Grandpa does sometimes, but my books don't interest him, and I hate to 
ask Brooke all the time.
Have someone come and see you then.
There isn't anyone I'd like to see. Boys make such a row, and my head is 
weak.
Isn't there some nice girl who'd read and amuse you? Girls are quiet and 
like to play nurse.
Don't know any.
You know us,
So I do! Will you come, please?
I'm not quiet and nice, but I'll come, if Mother will let me. I'll go ask her. 
Shut the window, like a good boy, and wait till I come.
. and did honor to the coming 
guest by brushing his curly pate, putting on a fresh color, and trying tidy up 
the room, which in spite of half a dozen servants, was anything but neat. 
Presently there came a loud ring, than a decided voice, asking for `Mr. 
laurie
All right, show her up, it's Miss Jo, 
s three kittens in the other. 
"Here I am, bag and baggage," she said briskly. "Mother sent her love, and 
was glad if I could do anything for you. Meg wanted me to bring some of her 
blancmange, she makes it very nicely, and Beth thought her cats would be 
comforting. I knew you
t refuse, she was so 
anxious to do something." 
It so happened that Beth
That looks too pretty to eat,
s pet geranium. 
"It isn
s so simple you can eat it, and being soft, it will 
slip down without hurting your sore throat. What a cozy room this is!" 
48
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "It might be it it was kept nice, but the maids are lazy, and I don
 

ll right it up in two minutes, for it only needs to have the hearth brushed, 
so--and the things made straight on the mantelpiece,  so--and the books put 
here, and the bottles there, and your sofa turned from the light, and the 
pillows plumped up a bit. Now then, you
 
And so he was, for, as she laughed and talked, Jo had whisked things into 
place and given quite a different air to the room. Laurie watched her in 
respectful silence, and when she beckoned him to his sofa, he sat down with 
a sigh of satisfaction, saying gratefully... 

s what it wanted. Now please take the big chair 
and let me do something to amuse my company." 
"No, I came to amuse you. Shall I read aloud?" and Jo looked affectionately 
toward some inviting books near by. 
"Thank you! I
t mind, I
 
answered Laurie. 

ll talk all day if you
 

 asked Laurie with interest. 

s Beth. She
  
 
Laurie colored up, but answered frankly, 
m alone up here, I can
s 
like looking at a picture to see the fire, and you all around the table with 
your mother. Her face is right opposite, and it looks so sweet behind the 
flowers,  I can
t got any mother, you know." And 
Laurie poked the fire to hide a little twitching of the lips that he could not 
control. 
The solitary, hungry look in his eyes went straight to Jo
We'll never draw that curtain any more, and I give you leave to look as 
much as you like. I just wish, though, instead of peeping,  you'd come over 
and see us. Mother is so splendid, she'd do you heaps of good, and Beth 
would sing to you if I begged her to, and Amy would dance. Meg and I would 
make you laugh over our funny stage properties, and we'd have jolly times. 
Wouldn't your grandpa let you?
I think he would, if your mother asked 
him. He's very kind, though he does not look so, and he lets me do what I 
like, pretty much,  only he's afraid I might be a bother to strangers,
We are not strangers, we are neighbors, and you needn't think you'd be a 
bother. We want to know you, and I've been trying to do it this ever so long. 
We haven't been here a great while, you know, but we have got acquainted 
with all our neighbors but you.
You see, Grandpa lives among his books, and doesn't mind much what 
happens outside. Mr. Brooke, my tutor, doesn't stay here, you know, and I 
have no one to go about with me, so I just stop at home and get on as I can.
That's bad. You ought to make an effort and go visiting everywhere you are 
asked, then you'll have plenty of friends, and pleasant places to go to. Never 
mind being bashful. It won't last long if you keep going.
t offended at being accused of 
bashfulness, for there was so much good will in Jo it was impossible not to 
take her blunt speeches as kindly as they were meant. 
"Do you like your school?" asked the boy, changing the subject, after a little 
pause, during which he stared at the fire and Jo looked about her, well 
pleased. 
"Don
m a businessman--girl, I mean. I go to wait on my 
great-aunt, and a dear, cross old soul she is, too," answered Jo. 
Laurie opened his mouth to ask another question, but remembering just in 
time that it wasn
s affairs, 
he shut it again, and looked uncomfortable. 
50
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 Jo liked his good breeding, and didn
Oh! That does me no end of good. Tell on, please,
, all about their plays and 
plans, their hopes and fears for Father, and the most interesting events of 
the little world in which the sisters lived. Then they got to talking about 
books, and to Jo
If you like them so much, come down and see ours. Grandfather is out, so 
you needn't be afraid,
I'm not afraid of anything,
I don't believe you are!
What richness!
Theodore Laurence, 
you ought to be the happiest boy in the world,
A fellow can't live on books,
Mercy me! It's your grandpa!
Well, what if it is? You are not afraid of anything, you know,
I think I am a little bit afraid of him, but I don't know why I should be. 
Marmee said I might come, and I don't think you're any the worse for it,
I'm a great deal better for it, and ever so much obliged. I'm only afraid you 
are very tired of talking to me. It was so pleasant, I couldn't bear to stop,
The doctor to see you, sir,
Would you mind if I left you for a minute? I suppose I must see him,
Don't mind me. I'm happy as a cricket here,
I'm sure now that I 
shouldn't be afraid of him, for he's got kind eyes,  though his mouth is grim, 
and he looks as if he had a tremendous will of his own. He isn't as 
handsome as my grandfather, but I like him.
Thank you, ma'am,
t blush any redder, and her heart began to 
beat uncomfortably fast as she thought what she had said. For a minute a 
wild desire to run away possessed her, but that was cowardly, and the girls 
would laugh at her, so she resolved to stay and get out of the scrape as she 
could. A second look showed her that the living eyes, under the bushy 
eyebrows, were kinder even than the painted ones, and there was a sly 
twinkle in them, which lessened her fear a good deal. The gruff voice was 
gruffer than ever, as the old gentleman said abruptly, after the dreadful 
pause, "So you
 

 

t think me as handsome as your grandfather?" 
"Not quite, sir." 
52
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "And I
 

 

 

 
That answer pleased the old gentleman. He gave a short laugh,  shook 
hands with her, and, putting his finger under her chin, turned up her face, 
examined it gravely, and let it go, saying with a nod,  
ve got your 
grandfather
t his face. He was a fine man, my dear, but 
what is better, he was a brave and an honest one, and I was proud to be his 
friend." 
"Thank you, sir," And Jo was quite comfortable after that, for it suited her 
exactly. 
"What have you been doing to this boy of mine, hey?" was the next question, 
sharply put. 
"Only trying to be neighborly, sir." And Jo to how her visit came about. 
"You think he needs cheering up a bit, do you?"  
"Yes, sir, he seems a little lonely, and young folks would do him good 
perhaps. We are only girls, but we should be glad to help if we could, for we 
don
 said Jo eagerly. 

s affair. How is the poor woman?" 
"Doing nicely, sir." And off went Jo, talking very fast, as she told all about 
the Hummels, in whom her mother had interested richer friends than they 
were. 
"Just her father
s the tea bell,  we have it early on the boy
 

d like to have me, sir." 
"Shouldn
t." And Mr. Laurence offered her his arm with 
old-fashioned courtesy. 
"What would Meg say to this?" thought Jo, as she was marched away, while 
her eyes danced with fun as she imagined herself telling the story at home. 
53
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Hey! Why, what the dickens has come to the fellow?" said the old 
gentleman, as Laurie came running downstairs and brought up with a start 
of surprise at the astounding sight of Jo arm in arm with his redoubtable 
grandfather. 
"I didn
d come, sir," he began, as Jo gave him a triumphant little 
glance. 
"That
 And having pulled the boy's hair by way of a 
caress, Mr. Laurence walked on, while Laurie went through a series of comic 
evolutions behind their backs, which nearly produced an explosion of 
laughter from Jo. 
The old gentleman did not say much as he drank his four cups of tea, but 
he watched the young people, who soon chatted away like old friends, and 
the change in his grandson did not escape him. There was color, light, and 
life in the boy's face now, vivacity in his manner, and genuine merriment in 
his laugh. 

s right, the lad is lonely. I
 
thought Mr. Laurence, as he looked and listened. He liked Jo, for her odd, 
blunt ways suited him, and she seemed to understand the boy almost as 
well as if she had been one herself. 
If the Laurences had been what Jo called `prim and poky',  she would not 
have got on at all, for such people always made her shy and awkward. But 
finding them free and easy, she was so herself, and made a good impression. 
When they rose she proposed to go, but Laurie said he had something more 
to show her, and took her away to the conservatory, which had been lighted 
for her benefit. It seemed quite fairylike to Jo, as she went up and down the 
walks, enjoying the blooming walls on either side, the soft light, the damp 
sweet air, and the wonderful vines and trees that hung about her, while her 
new friend cut the finest flowers till his hands were full. Then he tied them 
up,  saying, with the happy look Jo liked to see, 
 
They found Mr. Laurence standing before the fire in the great drawing room, 
by Jo's attention was entirely absorbed by a grand piano, which stood open. 

 she asked, turning to Laurie with a respectful expression. 

 he answered modestly. 
54
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
 

t you first?" 
"Don
 
So Laurie played and Jo listened, with her nose luxuriously buried in 
heliotrope and tea roses. Her respect and regard for the `Laurence' boy 
increased very much, for he played remarkably well and didn't put on any 
airs. She wished Beth could hear him, but she did not say so, only praised 
him till he was quite abashed, and his grandfather came to his rescue. 

t bad, but I hope he will do as well in more important 
things. Going? well, I
ll come again. 
My respects to your mother. Good night, Doctor Jo." 
He shook hands kindly, but looked as if something did not please him. 
When they got into the hall, Jo asked Laurie if she had said something 
amiss. He shook his head. 
"No, it was me. He doesn
 

 

ll tell you some day. John is going home with you, as I can
 
s only a step. Take care of yourself, won
 

 

 

 

 
 
When all the afternoon's adventures had been told, the family felt inclined to 
go visiting in a body, for each found something very attractive in the big 
house on the other side of the hedge. Mrs. March wanted to talk of her 
father with the old man who had not forgotten him, Meg longed to walk in 
the conservatory, Beth sighed for the grand piano. and Amy was eager to see 
the fine pictures and statues. 

t Mr. Laurence like to have Laurie play?" asked Jo, who 
was of an inquiring disposition. 
55
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "I am not sure, but I think it was because his son, Laurie
 as Jo said." 
"Dear me, how romantic!" exclaimed Meg. 
"How silly!" said Jo. "Let him be a musician if he wants to, and not plague 
his life out sending him to college, when he hates to go." 
"That
 said Meg, who was a little sentimental. 

 cried Jo, who was not sentimental. 

 

 
 

 And Jo opened her eyes as if it had never occurred to her before. 

t know a compliment when you get it," said 
Meg, with the air of a young lady who knew all about the matter. 
"I think they are great nonsense, and I
s a nice boy and I like him,  and I won
ll all be good to him because 
he hasn
t he, 
Marmee?" 
"Yes, Jo, your little friend is very welcome, and I hope Meg will remember 
that children should be children as long as they can." 
"I don
m not in my teens yet," observed Amy. 
"What do you say, Beth?" 
56
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "I was thinking about our `PILGRIM
," answered Beth,  who 
had not heard a word. "How we got out of the Slough and through the 
Wicket Gate by resolving to be good, and up the steep hill by trying, and 
that maybe the house over there, full of splendid things,  is going to be our 
Palace Beautiful." 
"We have got to get by the lions first," said Jo, as if she rather liked the 
prospect. 
57
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER SIX 
The big house did prove a Palace Beautiful, though it took some time for all 
to get in, and Beth found it very hard to pass the lions. Old Mr. Laurence 
was the biggest one, but after he had called, said something funny or kind 
to each one of the girls,  and talked over old times with their mother, nobody 
felt much afraid of him, except timid Beth. The other lion was the fact that 
they were poor and Laurie rich, for this made them shy of accepting favors 
which they could not return. But, after a while, they found that he 
considered them the benefactors, and could not do enough to show how 
grateful he was for Mrs. March
the Marches were regularly splendid girls.
. 
"Never mind, let him take a holiday, and make it up afterward," said the old 
gentleman. "The good lady next door says he is studying too hard and needs 
young society, amusement, and exercise. I suspect she is right, and that I
d been his grandmother. Let him do what he 
likes, as long as he is happy. He can
 
What good times they had, to be sure. Such plays and tableaux, such sleigh 
rides and skating frolics, such pleasant evenings in the old parlor, and now 
and then such gay little parties at the great house. Meg could walk in the 
conservatory whenever she liked and revel in bouquets, Jo browsed over the 
new library voraciously, and convulsed the old gentleman with her 
criticisms, Amy copied pictures and enjoyed beauty to her heart's content, 
and Laurie played `lord of the manor' in the most delightful style. 
58
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 But Beth, though yearning for the grand piano, could not pluck up courage 
to go to the `Mansion of Bliss', as Meg called it. She went once with Jo, but 
the old gentleman, not being aware of her infirmity, stared at her so hard 
from under his heavy eyebrows, and said 
 so loud, that he frightened 
her so much her `feet chattered on the floor', she never told her mother, and 
she ran away, declaring she would never go there any more, not even for the 
dear piano. No persuasions or enticements could overcome her fear, till, the 
fact coming to Mr. Laurence's ear in some mysterious way, he set about 
mending matters. During one of the brief calls he made, he artfully led the 
conversation to music, and talked away about great singers whom he had 
seen, fine organs he had heard, and told such charming anecdotes that Beth 
found it impossible to stay in her distant corner, but crept nearer and 
nearer, as if fascinated. At the back of his chair she stopped and stood 
listening, with her great eyes wide open and her cheeks red with excitement 
of this unusual performance. Taking no more notice of her than if she had 
been a fly, Mr. Laurence talked on about Laurie's lessons and teachers. And 
presently, as if the idea had just occurred to him, he said to Mrs. March... 

m glad of it, for he was getting too 
fond of it. But the piano suffers for want of use. Wouldn
 
Beth took a step forward, and pressed her hands tightly together to keep 
from clapping them, for this was an irresistible temptation, and the thought 
of practicing on that splendid instrument quite took her breath away. Before 
Mrs. March could reply, Mr. Laurence went on with an odd little nod and 
smile... 

t see or speak to anyone, but run in at any time. For I
clock." 
Here he rose, as if going, and Beth made up her mind to speak, for that last 
arrangement left nothing to be desired. "Please, tell the young ladies what I 
say, and if they don
 Here a little hand 
slipped into his, and Beth looked up at him with a face full of gratitude, as 
she said, in her earnest yet timid way... 

 
 he asked, 
without any startling 
 as he looked down at her very kindly. 
59
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
m Beth. I love it dearly, and I
 she added, fearing to be rude, and trembling at 
her own boldness as she spoke. 

 

 
Beth blushed like a rose under the friendly look he wore, but she was not 
frightened now, and gave the hand a grateful squeeze because she had no 
words to thank him for the precious gift he had given her. The old 
gentleman softly stroked the hair off her forehead, and, stooping down, he 
kissed herr, saying, in a tone few people ever heard... 

 And away he went, in a great hurry. 
Beth had a rapture with her mother, and then rushed up to impart the 
glorious news to her family of invalids, as the girls were not home. How 
blithely she sang that evening, and how they all laughed at her because she 
woke Amy in the night by playing the piano on her face in her sleep. Next 
day, having seen both the old and young gentleman out of the house, Beth, 
after two or three retreats, fairly got in at the side door, and made her way 
as noiselessly as any mouse to the drawing room where her idol stood. Quite 
by accident, of course, some pretty, easy music lay on the piano, and with 
trembling fingers and frequent stops to listen and look about, Beth at last 
touched the great instrument, and straightway forgot her fear, herself, and 
everything else but the unspeakable delight which the music gave her, for it 
was like the voice of a beloved friend. 
She stayed till Hannah came to take her home to dinner, but she had no 
appetite, and could only sit and smile upon everyone in a general state of 
beatitude. 
After that, the little brown hood slipped through the hedge nearly every day, 
and the great drawing room was haunted by a tuneful spirit that came and 
went unseen. She never knew that Mr. Laurence opened his study door to 
hear the old-fashioned airs he liked. She never saw Laurie mount guard in 
the hall to warn the servants away. She never suspected that the exercise 
books and new songs which she found in the rack were put there for her 
especial benefit, and when he talked to her about music at home, she only 
thought how kind he was to tell things that helped her so much. So she 
enjoyed herself heartily, and found, what isn't always the case, that her 
60
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 granted wish was all she had hoped. Perhaps it was because she was so 
grateful for this blessing that a greater was given her. At any rate she 
deserved both. 
m going to work Mr. Laurence a pair of slippers. 
He is so kind to me, I must thank him, and I don
 asked Beth, a few weeks after that eventful call of his. 

 replied 
Mrs. March, who took peculiar pleasure in granting Beth's requests because 
she so seldom asked anything for herself. 
After many serious discussions with Meg and Jo, the pattern was chosen, 
the materials bought, and the slippers begun. A cluster of grave yet cheerful 
pansies on a deeper purple ground was pronounced very appropriate and 
pretty, and beth worked away early and late, with occasional lifts over hard 
parts. She was a nimble little needlewoman, and they were finished before 
anyone got tired of them. Then she wrote a short, simple note, and with 
Laurie's help, got them smuggled onto the study table one morning before 
the old gentleman was up. 
When this excitement was over, Beth waited to see what would happen. All 
day passed a a part of the next before any acknowledgement arrived, and 
she was beginning to fear she had offended her crochety friend. On the 
afternoon of the second day, she went out to do an errand, and give poor 
Joanna, the invalid doll, her daily exercise. As she came up the street, on 
her return, she saw three, yes, four heads popping in and out of the parlor 
windows, and the moment they saw her, several hands were waved, and 
several joyful voices screamed... 

s a letter from the old gentleman! Come quick, and read it!" 
"Oh, Beth, he
 began Amy, gesticulating with unseemly energy, 
but she got no further, for Jo quenched her by slamming down the window. 
Beth hurried on in a flutter of suspense. At the door her sisters seized and 
bore her to the parlor in a triumphal procession, all pointing and all saying 
at once, 
 Beth did look, and turned pale with delight 
and surprise, for there stood a little cabinet piano, with a letter lying on the 
glossy lid, directed like a sign board to 
 

 gasped Beth, holding onto Jo and feeling as if she should tumble 
down, it was such an overwhelming thing altogether. 
61
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
t it splendid of him? Don
s 
the dearest old man in the world? Here
t 
open it, but we are dying to know what he says," cried Jo, hugging her sister 
and offering the note. 
"You read it! I can
 and Beth hid her 
face in Jo's apron, quite upset by her present. 
Jo opened the paper and began to laugh, for the first worked she saw were... 

Dear Madam--
How nice it sounds! I wish someone would 
write to me so!
`I have had many pairs of slippers in my life, but I never had any that 
suited me so well as yours, '
`Heartsease is my favorite 
flower, and these will always remind me of the gentle giver. I like to pay my 
debts, so I know you will allow `the old gentleman' to send you something 
which once belonged to the little grand daughter he lost. With hearty thanks 
and best wishes, I remain 
`JAMES LAURENCE' 

s an honor to be proud of, I
s given you her piano. That comes of 
having big blue eyes and loving music," said Jo, trying to soothe Beth, who 
trembled and looked more excited than she had ever been before. 
"See the cunning brackets to hold candles, and the nice green sild, puckered 
up, with a gold rose in the middle, and the pretty rack and stool, all 
complete," added Meg, opening the instrument and displaying its beauties. 
"`Your humble servant, James Laurence
ll tell the girls. They
s splendid," said Amy, much impressed 
by the note. 
"Try it, honey. Let
 said Hannah, who 
always took a share in the family joys and sorrows. 
So Beth tried it, and everyone pronounced it the most remarkable piano ever 
heard. It had evidently been newly tuned and put in apple- pie order, but, 
perfect as it was, I think the real charm lay in the happiest of all happy faces 
which leaned over it, as Beth lovingly touched the beautiful black and white 
keys and pressed the bright pedals. 
62
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
ll have to go and thank him," said Jo, by way of a joke, for the idea of 
the child
Yes, I mean to. I guess I'll go no, before I get frightened thinking about it.
 
door. 
"Well, I wish I may die if it ain
d never have gone in her right mind," cried Hannah, 
staring after her, while the girls were rendered quite speechless by the 
miracle. 
They would have been still more amazed if they had seen what Beth did 
afterward. If you will believe me, she went and knocked at the study door 
before she gave herself time to think, and when a gruff voice called out, 
"come in!" she did go in, right up to Mr. Laurence, who looked quite taken 
aback, and held out her hand,  saying, with only a small quaver in her voice, 
"I came to thank you, sir, for..." But she didn
t 
have been more astonished. But he liked it. Oh, dear, yes, he liked it 
amazingly! And was so touched and pleased by that confiding little kiss that 
all his crustiness vanished, and he just set her on his knee, and laid his 
wrinkled cheek against her rosy one, feeling as if he had got his own little 
grand daughter back again. Beth ceased to fear him from that moment, and 
sat there talking to him as cozily as if she had known him all her life, for 
love casts out fear, and gratitude can conquer pride. When she went home, 
he walked with her to her own gate, shook hands cordially, and touched his 
hat as he marched back again, looking very stately and erect, like a 
handsome, soldierly old gentleman, as he was. 
When the girls saw that performance, Jo began to dance a jig, by way of 
expressing her satisfaction, Amy nearly fell out of the window in her 
surprise, and Meg exclaimed, with up-lifted hands,  "Well, I do believe the 
world is coming to an end. 
63
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER SEVEN 
"That boy is a perfect cyclops, isn
 said Amy one day, as Laurie 
clattered by on horseback, with a flourish of his whip as he passed. 

s got both his eyes? And very handsome 
ones they are, too," cried Jo, who resented any slighting remarks about her 
friend. 
"I didn
t see why you need fire up 
when I admire his riding." 
"Oh, my goodness! That little goose means a centaur, and she called him a 
Cyclops," exclaimed Jo, with a burst of laughter. "You needn
s only a `lapse of lingy
 retorted Amy, finishing Jo with 
her Latin. 
 she added, as if to herself, yet hoping her sisters would hear. 

 asked Meg kindly, for Jo had gone off in another laugh at Amy's 
second blunder. 

m dreadfully in debt, and it won
 

 And Meg looked sober. 

t pay them, you know, 
till I have money, for Marmee forbade my having anything charged at the 
shop." 
"Tell me all about it. Are limes the fashion now? It used to be pricking bits of 
rubber to make balls." And Meg tried to keep her countenance, Amy looked 
so grave and important. 
"Why, you see, the girls are always buying them, and unless you want to be 
thought mean, you must do it too. It
s mad with her, she eats one before her 
face, and doesn
ve had ever so 
many but haven
 
64
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
 asked Meg, taking 
out her purse.
A quarter would more than do it, and leave a few cents over for a treat for 
you. Don't you like limes?
Not much. You may have my share. Here's the money. Make it last as long 
as you can, for it isn't very plenty, you know.
Oh, thank you! It must be so nice to have pocket money! I'll have a grand 
feast, for I haven't tasted a lime this week. I felt delicate about taking any, as 
I couldn't return them, and I'm actually suffering for one.
, and the 
attentions of her friends became quite overwhelming. Katy Brown invited her 
to her next party on the spot. Mary Kinglsey insisted on lending her her 
watch till recess, and Jenny Snow, a satirical young lady, who had basely 
twitted Amy upon her limeless state, promptly buried the hatchet and 
offered to furnish answers to certain appalling sums. But Amy had not 
forgotten Miss Snow
s limes, and stuck-up people who 
were not too proud to ask for them
s
You needn't be so polite all of a 
sudden, for you won't get any.
s beautifully drawn maps received praise, which honor to her foe 
rankled in the soul of Miss Snow, and caused Miss March to assume the 
airs of a studious young peacock. But, alas, alas! Pride goes before a fall, 
and the revengeful Snow turned the tables with disastrous success. No 
sooner had the guest paid the usual stale compliments and bowed himself 
out, than Jenny, under pretense of asking an important question, informed 
Mr. Davis, the teacher, that Amy March had pickled limes in her desk. 
Now Mr. Davis had declared limes a contraband article, and solemnly vowed 
to publicly ferrule the first person who was found breaking the law. This 
much-enduring man had succeeded in banishing chewing gum after a long 
and stormy war, had made a bonfire of the confiscated novels and 
newspapers, had suppressed a private post office, had forbidden distortions 
65
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 of the face, nicknames, and caricatures, and done all that one man could do 
to keep half a hundred rebellious girls in order. Boys are trying enough to 
human patience, goodness knows, but girls are infinitely more so, especially 
to nervous gentlemen with tyrannical tempers and no more talent for 
teaching than Dr. Blimber. Mr. Davis knew any quantity of Greek, Latin, 
algebra, and ologies of all sorts so he was called a fine teacher, and 
manners, morals, feelings, and examples were not considered of any 
particular importance. It was a most unfortunate moment for denouncing 
Amy, and Jenny knew it. Mr. Davis had evidently taken his coffee too strong 
that morning, there was an east wind, which always affected his neuralgia, 
and his pupils had not done him the credit which he felt he deserved. 
Therefore, to use the expressive, if not elegant, language of a schoolgirl, "He 
was as nervous as a witch and as cross as a bear". The word `limes
Young ladies, attention, if you please!
Miss March, come to the desk.
Bring with you the limes you have in your desk,
Don't take all.
Is that all?
Not quite,
Bring the rest immediately.
You are sure there are no more?' 
66
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
 

 
There was a simultaneous sigh, which created quite a little gust,  as the last 
hope fled, and the treat was ravished from their longinglips.  Scarlet with 
shame and anger, Amy went to and fro six dreadful times, and as each 
doomed couple, looking oh, so plump and juicy, fell from her reluctant 
hands, a shout from the street completed the anguish of the girls, for it told 
them that their feast was being exulted over by the little Irish children, who 
were their sworn foes. This--this was too much. All flashed indignant or 
appealing glances at the inexorable Davis, and one passionate lime lover 
burst into tears. 
As Amy returned from her last trip, Mr. Davis gave a portentous 
 and 
said, in his most impressive manner... 

 
Amy started, and put both hands behind her, turning on him an imploring 
look which pleaded for her better than the words she could not utter. She 
was rather a favorite with `old Davis', as, of course,  he was called, and it's 
my private belief that he would have broken his word if the indignation of 
one irrepressible young lady had not found vent in a hiss. That hiss, faint as 
it was, irritated the irascible gentleman, and sealed the culprit's fate. 

 was the only answer her mute appeal received, 
and too proud to cry or beseech, Amy set her teeth, threw back her head 
defiantly, and bore without flinching several tingling blows on her little 
palm. They were neither many nor heavy, but that made no difference to 
her. For the first time in her life she had been struck, and the disgrace, in 
her eyes, was as deep as if he had knocked her down. 

 said Mr. Davis, resolved to 
do the thing thoroughly, since he had begun. 
That was dreadful. It would have been bad enough to go to her seat, and see 
the pitying faces of her friends, or the satisfied ones of her few enemies, but 
to face the whole school, with that shame fresh upon her, seemed 
impossible, and for a second she felt as if she could only drop down where 
she stood, and break her heart with crying. A bitter sense of wrong and the 
67
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 thought of Jenny Snow helped her to bear it, and, taking the ignominious 
place, she fixed her eyes on the stove funnel above what now seemed a sea 
of faces,  and stood there, so motionless and white that the girls found it 
hard to study with that pathetic figure before them. 
During the fifteen minutes that followed, the proud and sensitive little girl 
suffered a shame and pain which she never forgot. To others it might seem a 
ludicrous or trivial affair, but to her it was a hard experience, for during the 
twelve years of her life she had been governed by love alone, and a blow of 
that sort had never touched her before. The smart of her hand and the ache 
of her heart were forgotten in the sting of the thought, 
 
The fifteen minutes seemed an hour, but they came to an end at last, and 
the word `Recess!' had never seemed so welcome to her before. 

 said Mr. Davis, looking, as he felt, uncomfortable. 
He did not soon forget the reproachful glance Amy gave him, as she went, 
without a word to anyone, straight into the anteroom,  snatched her things, 
and left the place 
 as she passionately declared to herself. She was 
in a sad state when she got home, and when the older girls arrived, some 
time later, an indignation meeting was held at once. Mrs. March did not say 
much but looked disturbed, and comforted her afflicted little daughter in her 
tenderest manner. Meg bathed the insulted hand with glycerine and tears, 
Beth felt that even her beloved kittens would fail as a balm for griefs like 
this, Jo wrathfully proposed that Mr. Davis be arrested without delay,  and 
Hannah shook her fist at the `villain' and pounded potatoes for dinner as if 
she had him under her pestle. 
No notice was taken of Amy's flight, except by her mates, but the sharp-eyed 
demoiselles discovered that Mr. Davis was quite benignant in the afternoon, 
also unusually nervous. Just before school closed, Jo appeared, wearing a 
grim expression as she stalked up to the desk, and delivered a letter from 
her mother, then collected Amy's property, and departed, carefully scraping 
the mud from her boots on the door mat, as if she shook that dust of the 
place off her feet. 

 said Mrs. March that evening. 
t approve of 
corporal punishment, especially for girls. I dislike Mr. Davis
t think the girls you associate with are doing you any 
good, so I shall ask your father
 
68
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
s good! I wish all the girls would leave, and spoil his old school. It
 sighed Amy, with the air 
of a martyr. 

 was the severe reply, which rather 
disappointed the young lady, who expected nothing but sympathy. 

 cried 
Amy. 

 replied her mother, 

m not sure that it won
 

 cried Laurie, who was playing chess in a corner with Jo. 
t know 
it, never guessed what sweet little things she composed when she was alone, 
and wouldn
 

d known that nice girl. Maybe she would have helped me, I
 said Beth, who stood beside him, listening eagerly. 

 
answered Laurie, looking at her with such mischievous meaning in his 
merry black eyes that Beth suddenly turned very red, and hid her face in the 
sofa cushion, quite overcome by such an unexpected discovery. 
Jo let Laurie win the game to pay for that praise of her Beth, who could not 
be prevailed upon to play for them after her compliment. So Laurie did his 
best, and sang delightfully, being in a particularly lively humor, for to the 
Marches he seldom showed the moody side of his character. When he was 
gone, amy, who had been pensive all evening, said suddenly, as if busy over 
some new idea,  
 

 replied her mother. 

t conceited, is he?" asked Amy. 
69
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Not in the least. That is why he is so charming and we all like him so 
much." "I see. It
 said Amy thoughtfully. 

s manner and 
conversations, if modestly used, but it is not necessary to display them," 
said Mrs. March. 
"Any more than it
ve got them," added Jo, and the lecture 
ended in a laugh. 
70
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER EIGHT 
"Girls, where are you going?" asked Amy, coming into their room one 
Saturday afternoon, and finding them getting ready to go out with an air of 
secrecy which excited her curiosity. 
"Never mind. Little girls shouldn
 returned Jo sharply. 
Now if there is anything mortifying to out feelings when we are young, it is to 
be told that, and to be bidden to 
 is still more trying to us. 
Amy bridled up at this insult,  and determined to find out the secret, if she 
teased for an hour. Turning to Meg, who never refused her anything very 
long, she said coaxingly, 
t got anything to do, and am 
so lonely." 
"I can
t invited," began Meg, but Jo broke in 
impatiently, "Now, Meg, be quiet or you will spoil it all. You can
t be a baby and whine about it." 
"You are going somewhere with Laurie, I know you are. You were whispering 
and laughing together on the sofa last night, and you stopped when I came 
in. Aren
 

 
Amy held her tongue, but used her eyes, and saw Meg slip a fan into her 
pocket. 

re going to the theater to see the SEVEN CASTLES!" 
she cried, adding resolutely, "and I shall go, for Mother said I might see it, 
and I
 

 said Meg soothingly. 

t wish you to go this week, because your eyes are not well 
enough yet to bear the light of this fairy piece. Next week you can go with 
Beth and Hannah, and have a nice time." 
"I don
ve 
been sick with this cold so long, and shut up, I
ll be ever so good," pleaded Amy, looking as pathetic as she could. 
"Suppose we take her. I don
 began Meg. 
71
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
t, and if I don
t like it, and it will be very 
rude, after he invited only us, to go and drag in Amy. I should think she
t wanted," said Jo crossly, for she disliked 
the trouble of overseeing a fidgety child when she wanted to enjoy herself. 
Her tone and manner angered Amy, who began to put her boots on, saying, 
in her most aggravating way, "I shall go. Meg says I may, and if I pay for 
myself, Laurie hasn
 

t sit with us, for our seats are reserved, and you mustn
ll get 
another seat for you, and that isn
t asked. You 
shan
 scolded Jo, crosser 
than ever, having just pricked her finger in her hurry. 
Sitting on the floor with one boot on, Amy began to cry and Meg to reason 
with her, when Laurie called from below, and the two girls hurried down, 
leaving their sister wailing. For now and then she forgot her grown-up ways 
and acted like a spoiled child. Just as the party was setting out, Amy called 
over the banisters in a threatening tone, 
ll be sorry for this, Jo March, 
see if you ain
 

 returned Jo, slamming the door. 
They had a charming time, for THE SEVEN CASTLES OF THE DIAMOND 
LAKE was as brilliant and wonderful as heart could wish. But in spite of the 
comical red imps, sparkling elves, and the gorgeous princes and princesses, 
Jo's pleasure had a drop of bitterness in it. The fairy queen's yellow curls 
reminded her of Amy, and between the acts she amused herself with 
wondering what her sister would do to make her `sorry for it'. She and Amy 
had had many lively skirmishes in the course of their lives, for both had 
quick tempers and were apt to be violent when fairly roused. Amy teased Jo, 
and Jo irritated Amy, and semioccasional explosions occurred, of which 
both were much ashamed afterward. Although the oldest, Jo had the least 
self-control, and had hard times trying to curb the fiery spirit which was 
continually getting her into trouble. Her anger never lasted long, and having 
humbly confessed her fault, she sincerely repented and tried to do better. 
Her sisters used to say that they rather liked to get Jo into a fury because 
she was such an angel afterward. Poor Jo tried desperately to be good, but 
her bosom enemy was always ready to flame up and defeat her, and it took 
years of patient effort to subdue it. 
72
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 When they got home, they found amy reading in the parlor. She assumed an 
injured air as they came in, never lifted her eyes from her book, or asked a 
single question. Perhaps curiosity might have conquered resentment, if Beth 
had not been there to inquire and receive a glowing description of the play. 
On going up to put away her best hat, Jo's first look was toward the bureau, 
for in their last quarrel Amy had soothed her feelings by turning Jo's top 
drawer upside down on the floor. Everything was in its place, however, and 
after a hasty glance into her various closets, bags, and boxes, Jo decided 
that Amy had forgiven and forgotten her wrongs. 
There Jo was mistaken, for next day she made a discovery which produced a 
tempest. Meg, Beth, and Amy were sitting together, late in the afternoon, 
when Jo burst into the room, looking excited and demanding breathlessly, 

 
Meg and Beth said, 
 at once, and looked surprised. Amy poked the fire 
and said nothing. Jo saw her color rise and was down upon her in a minute. 

ve got it!" 
"No, I haven
 

 

t." 
"That
 cried Jo, taking her by the shoulders, and looking fierce 
enough to frighten a much braver child than Amy. 

t. I haven
t know where it is now, and don
 

d better tell at once, or I
 And Jo gave her a slight shake. 

ll never see your silly old book again," cried 
Amy, getting excited in her turn. 
"why not?" 
"I burned it up." 
"What! My little book I was so fond of, and worked over, and meant to finish 
before Father got home? Have you really burned it?" said Jo, turning very 
pale, while her eyes kindled and her hands clutched Amy nervously. 
73
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Yes, I did! I told you I
 
Amy got no farther, for Jo's hot temper mastered her, and she shook Amy 
till her teeth chattered in her head, crying in a passion of grief and anger... 

ll never forgive you 
as long as I live." 
Meg flew to rescue Amy, and Beth to pacify Jo, but Jo was quite beside 
herself, and with a parting box on her sister
s book was the pride of her heart, and was regarded by her family 
as a literary sprout of great promise. It was only half a dozen little fairy 
tales, but Jo had worked over them patiently, putting her whole heart into 
her work, hoping to make something good enough to print. She had just 
copied them with great care, and had destroyed the old manuscript, so that 
Amy
s courage to say meekly... 
"Please forgive me, Jo. I
 

 was Jo's stern answer, and from that moment she 
ignored Amy entirely. 
No one spoke of the great trouble, not even Mrs. March, for all had learned 
by experience that when Jo was in that mood words were wasted, and the 
wisest course was to wait till some little accident, or her own generous 
nature, softened Jo's resentment and healed the breach. It was not a happy 
evening, for though they sewed as usual, while their mother read aloud from 
Bremer, Scott, or Edgeworth, something was wanting, and the sweet home 
peace was disturbed. They felt this most when singing time came, for Beth 
could only play, Jo stood dumb as a stone, and Amy broke down, so Meg 
and Mother sang alone. But in spite of their efforts to be as cheery as larks, 
74
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 the flutelike voices did not seem to chord as well as usual, and all felt out of 
tune. 
As Jo received her good-night kiss, Mrs. March whispered gently, 
t let the sun go down upon your anger. Forgive each other, help each 
other, and begin again tomorrow." 
Jo wanted to lay her head down on that motherly bosom, and cry her grief 
and anger all away, but tears were an unmanly weakness, and she felt so 
deeply injured that she really couldn
It was an 
abominable thing, and she doesn't deserve to be forgiven.
t even try when other people set them a virtuous example. 
"Everybody is so hateful, I
 said Jo to herself, and off she went. 
Amy heard the clash of skates, and looked out with an impatient 
exclamation. 

s no use to ask such a crosspatch to take me." 
"Don
 said Meg. 
t say 
anything till Jo has got good-natured with Laurie, than take a quiet minute 
and just kiss her, or do some kind thing, and I
ll be friends again 
with all her heart." 
"I
 said Amy, for the advice suited her, and after a flurry to get ready, 
she ran after the friends, who were just disappearing over the hill. 
75
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 It was not far to the river, but both were ready before Amy reached them. Jo 
saw her coming, and turned her back. Laurie did not see, for he was 
carefully skating along the shore, sounding the ice, for a warm spell had 
preceded the cold snap. 

ll go on to the first bend, and see if it
 
Amy heard him say, as he shot away, looking like a young Russian in his 
fur-trimmed coat and cap. 
Jo heard Amy panting after her run, stamping her feet and blowing on her 
fingers as she tried to put her skates on, but Jo never turned and went 
slowly zigzagging down the river, taking a bitter, unhappy sort of satisfaction 
in her sister's troubles. She had cherished her anger till it grew strong and 
took possession of her, as evil thoughts and feelings always do unless cast 
out at once. As Laurie turned the bend, he shouted back... 

t safe in the middle." Jo heard, but Amy was 
struggling to her feet and did not catch a word. Jo glanced over her 
shoulder, and the little demon she was harboring said in her ear... 
"No matter whether she heard or not, let her take care of herself." 
Laurie had vanished round the bend, Jo was just at the turn, and Amy, far 
behind, striking out toward the the smoother ice in the middle of the river. 
For a minute Jo stood still with a strange feeling in her heart, then she 
resolved to go on, but something held and turned her round, just in time to 
see Amy throw up her hands and go down, with a sudden crash of rotten 
ice, the splash of water, and a cry that made Jo
s voice cried out... 
"Bring a rail. Quick, quick!" 
How she did it, she never knew, but for the next few minutes she worked as 
if possessed, blindly obeying Laurie, who was quite self-possessed, and lying 
flat, held Amy up by his arm and hockey stick till Jo dragged a rail from the 
fence, and together they got the child out, more frightened than hurt. 
"Now then, we must walk her home as fast as we can. Pile our things on her, 
while I get off these confounded skates," cried Laurie, wrapping his coat 
76
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 round Amy, and tugging away at the straps which never seemed so intricate 
before. 
Shivering, dripping, and crying, they got Amy home, and after an exciting 
time of it, she fell asleep, rolled in blankets before a hot fire. During the 
bustle Jo had scarcely spoken but flown about, looking pale and wild, with 
her things half off, her dress torn, and her hands cut and bruised by ice and 
rails and refractory buckles. When Amy was comfortably asleep, the house 
quiet, and Mrs. March sitting by the bed, she called Jo to her and began to 
bind up the hurt hands. 
"Are you sure she is safe?" whispered Jo, looking remorsefully at the golden 
head, which might have been swept away from her sight forever under the 
treacherous ice. 
"Quite safe, dear. she is not hurt, and won
 replied her 
mother cheerfully. 

 And Jo dropped down beside the bed in a passion of penitent tears, 
telling all that had happened, bitterly condemning her hardness of heart, 
and sobbing out her gratitude for being spared the heavy punishment which 
might have come upon her. 
s my dreadful temper! I try to cure it, I think I 
have,  and then it breaks out worse than ever. OH, Mother, what shall I do? 
What shall I do?" cried poor Jo, in despair. 
"Watch and pray, dear, never get tired of trying, and never think it is 
impossible to conquer your fault," said Mrs. March, drawing the blowzy head 
to her shoulder and kissing the wet cheek so tenderly that Jo cried even 
harder. 
"You don
t guess how bad it is! It seems as if I could do 
anything when I
m afraid I shall do something dreadful some day, and spoil my life, 
and make everybody hate me. Oh, Mother, help me, do help me!" 
"I will, my child, I will. Don
 
77
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
 And for the moment Jo forgot 
remorse in surprise. 

ve been trying to cure it for forty years, and have only succeeded in 
controlling it. I am angry nearly every day of my life, Jo, but I have learned 
not to show it, and I still hope to learn not to feel it, though it may take me 
another forty years to do so." 
The patience and the humility of the face she loved so well was a better 
lesson to Jo than the wisest lecture, the sharpest reproof. She felt comforted 
at once by the sympathy and confidence given her. The knowledge that her 
mother had a fault like hers, and tried to mend it, made her own easier to 
bear and strengthened her resolution to cure it, though forty years seemed 
rather a long time to watch and pray to a girl of fifteen. 
"Mother, are you angry when you fold your lips tight together and go out of 
the room sometimes, when Aunt March scolds or people worry you?" asked 
Jo, feeling nearer and dearer to her mother than ever before. 
"Yes, I
 
answered Mrs. March with a sigh and a smile, as she smoothed and 
fastened up Jo's disheveled hair. 

m about, and the more I say the worse I 
get, till it
s feelings and say dreadful things. Tell 
me how you do it, Marmee dear." "My good mother used to help me..." 
"As you do us..." interrupted Jo, with a grateful kiss. 
"But I lost her when I was a little older than you are, and for years had to 
struggle on alone, for I was too proud to confess my weakness to anyone 
else. I had a hard time, Jo, and shed a good many bitter tears over my 
failures, for in spite of my efforts I never seemed to get on. Then your father 
came, and I was so happy that i found it easy to be good. But by-and-by, 
when I had four little daughters round me and we were poor, then the old 
trouble began again, for I am not patient by nature, and it tried me very 
much to see my children wanting anything." 
"Poor Mother! What helped you then?" 
78
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Your father, Jo. He never loses patience, never doubts or complains, but 
always hopes, and works and waits so cheerfully that one is ashamed to do 
otherwise before him. He helped and comforted me, and showed me that I 
must try to practice all the virtues I would have my little girls possess, for I 
was their example. It was easier to try for your sakes than for my own. A 
startled or surprised look from one of you when I spoke sharply rebuked me 
more than any words could have done, and the love,  respect, and 
confidence of my children was the sweetest reward I could receive for my 
efforts to be the woman I would have them copy." 
"Oh, Mother, if I
 cried Jo, 
much touched. 

, as father calls it, or it may sadden, if not spoil your life. 
You have had a warning. Remember it, and try with heart and soul to 
master this quick temper, before it brings you greater sorrow and regret 
than you have known today." 
"I will try, Mother, I truly will. But you must help me, remind me, and keep 
me from flying out. I used to see Father sometimes put his finger on his lips, 
and look at you with a very kind but sober face, and you always folded your 
lips tight and went away. Was he reminding you then?" asked Jo softly. 
"Yes. I asked him to help me so, and he never forgot it, but saved me from 
many a sharp word by that little gesture and kind look." 
Jo saw that her mother
Was it wrong 
to watch you and to speak of it? I didn't mean to be rude, but it's so 
comfortable to say all I think to you, and feel so safe and happy here.
Mu Jo, you may say anything to your mother, for it is my greatest 
happiness and pride to feel that my girls confide in me and know how much 
I love them.
I thought I'd grieved you.
No, dear, but speaking of Father reminded me how much I miss him, how 
much I owe him, and how faithfully I should watch and work to keep his 
little daughters safe and good for him.
Yet you told him to go, Mother, and didn't cry when he went, and never 
complain now, or seem as if you needed any help,
I gave my best to the country I love, and kept my tears till he was gone. 
Why should I complain, when we both have merely done our duty and will 
surely be the happier for it in the end? If I  don't seem to need help, it is 
because I have a better friend, even than Father, to comfort and sustain me. 
My child, the troubles and temptations of your life are beginning and may be 
many, but you can overcome and outlive them all if you learn to feel the 
strength and tenderness of your Heavenly Father as you do that of your 
earthly one. The more you love and trust Him, and the less you will depend 
on human power and wisdom. His love and care never tire or change, can 
never be taken from you, but my become the source of lifelong peace, 
happiness, and strength. Believe this heartily, and go to God with all your 
little cares, and hopes, and sins, and sorrows, as freely and confidingly as 
you come to your mother.
s only answer was to hold her mother close, and in the silence which 
followed the sincerest prayer she had ever prayed left her heart without 
words. For in that sad yet happy hour, she had learned not only the 
bitterness of remorse and despair, but the sweetness of self-denial and self
control, and led by her mother
I let the sun go down on my anger. I wouldn't forgive her, and today, if it 
hadn't been for Laurie, it might have been too late! How could I be so 
wicked?
s heart. Neither said a word, but they hugged one 
another close, in spite of the blankets, and everything was forgiven and 
forgotten in one hearty kiss. 
80
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER NINE 
"I do think it was the most fortunate thing in the world that those children 
should have the measles just now," said Meg, one April day, as she stood 
packing the `go abroady
And so nice of Annie Moffat not to forget her promise. A whole fortnight of 
fun will be regularly splendid,
And such lovely weather, I'm so glad of that,
I wish I 
was going to have a fine time and wear all these nice things,
s cushion. 
"I wish you were all going, but as you can
m sure it
 said Meg, 
glancing round the room at the very simple outfit, which seemed nearly 
perfect in their eyes. 

 asked Amy, who had 
not been present at the opening of a certain cedar chest in which Mrs. 
March kept a few relics of past splendor, as gifts for her girls when the 
proper time came. 

t time to make it over, so I must be 
contented with my old tarlatan." 
"It will look nice over my new muslin skirt, and the sash will set it off 
beautifully. I wish I hadn
 said Jo, who loved to give and lend, but whose possessions were 
usually too dilapidated to be of much use. 

 replied Meg. 
s my 
new gray walking suit,  just curl up the feather in my hat, Beth, then my 
poplin for Sunday and the small party, it looks heavy for spring, doesn
 
81
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
ve got the tarlatan for the big party, and you always look 
like an angel in white," said Amy, brooding over the little store of finery in 
which her soul delighted. 
"It isn
t sweep enough, but it will have to do. My 
blue housedress looks so well, turned and freshly trimmed, that I feel as if 
I
t a bit the fashion, and my bonnet 
doesn
s. I didn
s strong and 
neat, so I ought not to complain, but I know I shall feel ashamed of it beside 
Annie
 sighed Meg, surveying the little umbrella 
with great disfavor. 

 advised Jo. 

t be so silly, or hurt Marmee
s a nonsensical notion of mine, and I
 And Meg took a 
refreshing peep at her glove box. 
 she asked, as Beth brought 
up a pile of snowy muslins, fresh from Hannah's hands. 

t, for the smart caps won
t rig," said Jo decidedly. 
"I wonder if I shall ever be happy enough to have real lace on my clothes and 
bows on my caps?" said Meg impatiently. 
"You said the other day that you
s," observed Beth in her quiet way. 
"So I did! Well, I am happy, and I won
t it? There now, the trays are ready, and 
everything in but my ball dress,  which I shall leave for Mother to pack," said 
Meg, cheering up, as she glanced from the half-filled trunk to the many 
times pressed and mended white tarlatan, which she called her `ball dress
s pretty things, the 
more she envied her and sighed to be rich. Home now looked bare and 
dismal as she thought of it, work grew harder than ever, and she felt that 
she was a very destitute and much-injured girl, in spite of the new gloves 
and silk stockings. 
She had not much time for repining, however, for the three young girls were 
busily employed in `having a good time
, as they called her,  was in a fair way to have her head 
turned. 
When the evening for the small party came, she found that the poplin 
wouldn
s crisp new one. Meg saw the 
girls glance at it and then at one another, and her cheeks began to burn, for 
with all her gentleness she was very proud. No one said a word about it, but 
Sallie offered to dress her hair, and Annie to tie her sash, and Belle, the 
engaged sister, praised her white arms. But in their kindness Meg saw only 
pity for her poverty, and her heart felt very heavy as she stood by herself, 
83
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 while the others laughed, chattered, and flew about like gauzy butterflies. 
The hard, bitter feeling was getting pretty bad, when the maid brought in a 
box of flowers. Before she could speak, Annie had the cover off, and all were 
exclaiming at the lovely roses, heath, and fern within. 
"It
 cried Annie, with a great sniff. 

s a note," put in the maid, 
holding it to Meg. 
"What fun! Who are they from? Didn
 cried the girls, 
fluttering about Meg in a high state of curiosity and surprise.  
 said Meg simply, yet much 
gratified that he had not forgotten her. 

 said Annie with a funny look, as Meg slipped the note into her 
pocket as a sort of talisman against envy, vanity, and false pride, for the few 
loving words had done her good, and the flowers cheered her up by their 
beauty. 
Feeling almost happy again, she laid by a few ferns and roses for herself, 
and quickly made up the rest in dainty bouquets for the breasts, hair, or 
skirts of her friends, offering them so prettily that Clara, the elder sister, 
told her she was `the sweetest little thing she ever saw', and they looked 
quite charmed with her small attention. Somehow the kind act finished her 
despondency, and when all the rest went to show themselves to Mrs. Moffat, 
she saw a happy, bright-eyed face in the mirror, as she laid her ferns 
against her rippling hair and fastened the roses in the dress that didn't 
strike her as so very shabby now. 
She enjoyed herself very much that evening, for she danced to her heart's 
content. Everyone was very kind, and she had three compliments. Annie 
made her sing, and some one said she had a remarkably fine voice. Major 
Lincoln asked who `the fresh little girl with the beautiful eyes' was, and Mr. 
Moffat insisted on dancing with her because she `didn't dawdle, but had 
some spring in her', as he gracefully expressed it. So altogether she had a 
very nice time, till she overheard a bit of conversation, which disturbed her 
extremely. She was sitting just inside the conservatory, waiting for her 
partner to bring her an ice, when she heard a voice ask on the other side of 
the flowery wall... 

 
84
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
 replied another voice. 

t it? Sallie says they 
are very intimate now, and the old man quite dotes on them." 
"Mrs. M. has made her plans, I dare say, and will play her cards well, early 
as it is. The girl evidently doesn
 said Mrs. Moffat. 

d be so nice if she was 
only got up in style. Do you think she
asked another voice. 

s proud, but I don
d mind, for that dowdy tarlatan is all 
she has got. She may tear it tonight, and that will be a good excuse for 
offering a decent one." 
Here Meg
Mrs. M. has made her plans,
that fib about 
her mamma,
dowdy tarlatan," till she was ready to cry and rushhome 
to tell her troubles and ask for advice. As that was impossible, she did her 
best to seem gay, and being rather excited, she succeeded so well that no 
one dreamed what an effort she was making. She was very glad when it was 
all over and she was quiet in her bed, where she could think and wonder 
and fume till her head ached and her hot cheeks were cooled by a few 
natural tears. Those foolish, yet well meant words, had opened a new world 
to Meg, and much disturbed the peace of the old one in which till now she 
had lived as happily as a child. Her innocent friendship with Laurie was 
spoiled by the silly speeches she had overheard. Her faith in her mother was 
a little shaken by the worldly plans attributed to her by Mrs. Moffat, who 
judged others by herself, and the sensible resolution to be contented with 
the simple wardrobe which suited a poor man
Daisy, dear, I've sent an invitation to your friend, Mr.Laurence, for 
Thursday. We should like to know him, and it's only a proper compliment to 
you.
You are very kind, but I'm afraid he won't come.
Why not, Cherie?
He's too old.
My child, what do you mean? What is his age, I beg to know!
Nearly seventy, I believe,
You sly creature! Of course we meant the young man,
There isn't any, Laurie is only a little boy.
About you age,
Nearer my sister Jo's, I am seventeen in August,
It's very nice of him to send you flowers, isn't it?
Yes, he often does, to all of us, for their house is full, and we are so fond of 
them. My mother and old Mr. Laurence are friends, you know, so it is quite 
natural that we children should play together.
It's evident Daisy isn't out yet,
Quite a pastoral state of innocence all round,
I'm going out to get some little matters for my girls. Can I do anything for 
you, young ladies?
No, thank you, ma'am,
I've got my new pink silk for 
Thursday and don't want a thing.
Nor I...
What shall you wear?
My old white one again, if I can mend it fit to be seen, it got sadly torn last 
night,
Why don't you send home for another?
I haven't got any other.
Only that?
 She did 
not finish her speech, for Belle shook her head at her and broke in, saying 
kindly... 

t out 
yet? There
ve got a sweet blue silk laid away, which I
t you, dear?" 
"You are very kind, but I don
t, it does well 
enough for a little girl like me," said Meg. 
"Now do let me please myself by dressing you up in style. I admire to do it, 
and you
t let 
anyone see you till you are done, and then we
 said Belle in her persuasive 
tone. 
Meg couldn't refuse the offer so kindly made, for a desire to see if she would 
be `a little beauty' after touching up caused her to accept and forget all her 
former uncomfortable feelings toward the Moffats. 
On the Thursday evening, Belle shut herself up with her maid, and between 
them they turned Meg into a fine lady. They crimped and curled her hair, 
they polished her neck and arms with some fragrant powder, touched her 
lips with coralline salve to make them redder, and Hortense would have 
87
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 added `a soupcon of rouge', if Meg had not rebelled. They laced her into a 
sky-blue dress, which was so tight she could hardly breathe and so low in 
the neck that modest Meg blushed at herself in the mirror. A set of silver 
filagree was added, bracelets, necklace, brooch, and even earrings, for 
Hortense tied them on with a bit of pink silk which did not show. A cluster 
of tea-rose buds at the bosom and a ruche, reconciled Meg to the display of 
her pretty, white shoulders, and a pair of high-heeled silk boots satisfied the 
last wish of her heart. A lace handkerchief, a plumy fan, and a bouquet in a 
shoulder holder finished her off, and Miss Belle surveyed her with the 
satisfaction of a little girl with a newly dressed doll. 

 cried Hortense, clasping 
her hands in an affected rapture. 

 said Miss Belle, leading the way to the room 
where the others were waiting. 
As Meg went rustling after, with her long skirts trailing, her earrings 
tinkling, her curls waving, and her heart beating, she felt as if her fun had 
really begun at last, for the mirror had plainly told her that she was `a little 
beauty'. Her friends repeated the pleasing phrase enthusiastically, and for 
several minutes she stood, like a jackdaw in the fable, enjoying her 
borrowed plumes, while the rest chattered like a party of magpies. 
t any of 
you disturb the charming work of my hands," said Belle, as she hurried 
away, looking well pleased with her success. 
"You don
m nowhere beside 
you, for Belle has heaps of taste, and you
t be so careful of them, and be sure you don
 
returned Sallie, trying not to care that Meg was prettier than herself. 
Keeping that warning carefully in mind, Margaret got safely downstairs and 
sailed into the drawing rooms where the Moffats and a few early guests were 
assembled. She very soon discovered that there is a charm about fine 
clothes which attracts a certain class of people and secures their respect. 
Several young ladies, who had taken no notice of her before, were very 
affectionate all of a sudden. Several young gentlemen, who had only stared 
at her at the other party, now not only stared, but asked to be introduced, 
and said all manner of foolish but agreeable things to her, and several old 
ladies, who sat on the sofas, and criticized the rest of the party, inquired 
88
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 who she was with an air of interest. She heard Mrs. Moffat reply to one of 
them... 

 

 said the old lady, putting up her glass for another observation of 
Meg, who tried to look as if she had not heard and been rather shocked at 
Mrs. Moffat's fibs. The `queer feeling' did not pass away, but she imagined 
herself acting the new part of fine lady and so got on pretty well, though the 
tight dress gave her a side-ache, the train kept getting under her feet, and 
she was in constant fear lest her earrings should fly off and get lost or 
broken. She was flirting her fan and laughing at the feeble jokes of a young 
gentleman who tried to be witty, when she suddenly stopped laughing and 
looked confused, for just opposite, she saw Laurie. He was staring at her 
with undisguised surprise, and disapproval also, she thought, for though he 
bowed and smiled, yet something in his honest eyes made her blush and 
wish she had her old dress on. To complete her confusion, she saw Belle 
nudge Annie, and both glance from her to Laurie, who, she was happy to 
see, looked unusually boyish and shy. 

t care for it, or let 
it change me a bit," thought Meg, and rustled across the room to shake 
hands with her friend. 
"I
t." she said, with her most 
grown-up air. 
"Jo wanted me to come, and tell her how you looked, so I did," answered 
Laurie, without turning his eyes upon her, though he half smiled at her 
maternal tone. 
"What shall you tell her?" asked Meg, full of curiosity to know his opinion of 
her, yet feeling ill at ease with him for the first time. 
"I shall say I didn
m quite afraid of you," he said, fumbling at his glove button. 
"How absurd of you! The girls dressed me up for fun, and I rather like it. 
Wouldn
 said Meg, bent on making him say 
whether he thought her improved or not. 
 returned 
Laurie gravely. 
89
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
t you like me so?
No, I don't,
Why not?
I don't like fuss and feathers.
You are the rudest boy I ever saw.
They are making a fool of that little girl. I wanted you to see her, but they 
have spoiled her entirely. She's nothing but a doll tonight.
Oh, dear!
I wish I'd been sensible and worn my own things, 
then I should not have disgusted other people, or felt so uncomfortable and 
ashamed of myself.
Please forgive my rudeness, and come and dance with me.
I'm afraid it will be to disagreeable to you,
Not a bit of it, I'm dying to do it. Come, I'll be good. I don't like your gown, 
but I do think you are just splendid.
Take care my skirt doesn't trip you up. It's the plague of my life and I 
was a goose to wear it.
Pin it round your neck, and then it will be useful,
Laurie, I want you to do me a favor, will you?' said Meg, as he stood fanning 
her when her breath gave out, which it did very soon though she would not 
own why. 

t I!" said Laurie, with alacrity. 
"Please don
t 
understand the joke, and it will worry Mother.
Then why did you do it?
s eyes, so plainly that Meg hastily 
added... 
"I shall tell them myself all about it, and `fess
ve been. 
But I
ll not tell, will you?" 
"I give you my word I won
 

 

ll say the first with all my heart, but how about the other? You don
 And Laurie looked at her with 
an expression which made her answer in a whisper... 
"No, not just now. Don
m horrid. I only wanted a little fun, but this 
sort doesn
m getting tired of it." 
"Here comes Ned Moffat. What does he want?" said Laurie, knitting his black 
brows as if he did not regard his young host in the light of a pleasant 
addition to the party. 
"He put his name down for three dances, and I suppose he
 said Meg, assuming a languid air which amused Laurie 
immensely. 
He did not speak to her again till suppertime, when he saw her drinking 
champagne with Ned and his friend Fisher, who were behaving `like a pair of 
fools', as Laurie said to himself, for he felt a brotherly sort of right to watch 
over the Marches and fight their battles whenever a defender was needed. 
91
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
ll have a splitting headache tomorrow, if you drink much of that. I 
wouldn
t like it, you know," he whispered, leaning 
over her chair, as Ned turned to refill her glass and Fisher stooped to pick 
up her fan. 
"I
m `a doll
 and be desperately good 
again," se answered with an affected little laugh. 
"Wish tomorrow was here, then," muttered Laurie, walking off, ill-pleased at 
the change he saw in her. 
Meg danced and flirted, chattered and giggled, as the other girls did. After 
supper she undertook the German, and blundered through it, nearly 
upsetting her partner with her long skirt, and romping in a way that 
scandalized Laurie, who looked on and meditated a lecture. But he got no 
chance to deliver it, for Meg kept away from him till he came to say good 
night. 
"Remember!" she said, trying to smile, for the splitting headache had already 
begun. 
"Silence a` la mort," replied Laurie, with a melodramatic flourish, as he went 
away. 
This little bit of byplay excited Annie
t enjoyed herself as much as she expected. She was sick all the next 
day, and on Saturday went home, quite used up with her fortnight
 long enough. 
"It does seem pleasant to be quiet, and not have company manners on all 
the time. Home is a nice place, though it isn
 said Meg, looking 
about her with a restful expression, as she sat with her mother and Jo on 
the Sunday evening. 

m glad to hear you say so, dear, for I was afraid home would seem dull 
and poor to you after your fine quarters," replied her mother, who had given 
her many anxious looks that day. For motherly eyes are quick to see any 
change in children
s stool, leaned 
her elbows on her mother
Marmee, I want to `fess'.
I thought so. What is it, dear?
Shall I go away?
Of course not. Don't I always tell you everything? I was ashamed to speak 
of it before the younger children, but I want you to know all the dreadful 
things I did at the Moffats'.
We are prepared,
I told you they dressed me up, but I didn't tell you that they powdered and 
squeezed and frizzled, and made me look like a fashion plate. Laurie thought 
I wasn't proper. I know he did, though he didn't say so, and one man called 
me `a doll'. I knew it was silly, but they flattered me and said I was a beauty, 
and quantities of nonsense, so I let them make a fool of me.
Is that all?
No, I drank champagne and romped and tried to flirt, and was altogether 
abominable,
There is something more, I think.
Yes. It's very silly, but I want to tell it, because I hate to have people say 
and think such things about us and Laurie.
, and 
as she spoke, Jo saw her mother fold her lips tightly,  as if ill pleased that 
such ideas should be put into Meg
Well, if that isn't the greatest rubbish I ever heard,
Why didn't you pop out and tell them so on the spot?' 

t, it was so embarrassing for me. I couldn
t remember that I ought to go 
away." 
93
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Just wait till I see Annie Moffat, and I
 and being kind to Laurie because 
he
t he shout when I tell him what 
those silly things say about us poor children?" And Jo laughed, as if on 
second thoughts the thing struck her as a good joke. 
"If you tell Laurie, I
t,  must she, Mother?" 
said Meg, looking distressed. 
"No, never repeat that foolish gossip, and forget it as soon as you can," said 
Mrs. March gravely. "I was very unwise to let you go among people of whom I 
know so little, kind, I dare say, but worldly, ill-bred, and full of these vulgar 
ideas about young people. I am more sorry than I can express for the 
mischief this visit may have done you, Meg." 
"Don
t let it hurt me. I
ll not be sentimental or dissatisfied, Mother. I know I
ll stay with you till I
t help saying I like it," said Meg, 
looking half ashamed of the confession. 
"That is perfectly natural, and quite harmless, if the liking does not become 
a passion and lead one to do foolish or unmaidenly things. Learn to know 
and value the praise which is worth having, and to excite the admiration of 
excellent people by being modest as well as pretty, Meg." 
Margaret sat thinking a moment, while Jo stood with her hands behind her, 
looking both interested and a little perplexed, for it was a new thing to see 
Meg blushing and talking about admiration, lovers, and things of that sort. 
And Jo felt as if during that fortnight her sister had grown up amazingly, 
and was drifting away from her into a world where she could not follow. 
"Mother, do you have `plans
 asked Meg bashfully. 

s, I suspect. I will tell you some of them, for the 
time has come when a word may set this romantic little head and heart of 
yours right, on a very serious subject. You are young, Meg, but not too 
young to understand me, and mothers
 and help me carry them out, if they are good." 
94
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 Jo went and sat on one arm of the chair, looking as if she thought they were 
about to join in some very solemn affair. Holding a hand of each, and 
watching the two young faces wistfully, Mrs. March said, in her serious yet 
cheery way... 
"I want my daughters to be beautiful, accomplished, and good. To be 
admired, loved, and respected. To have a happy youth, to be well and wisely 
married, and to lead useful, pleasant lives,  with as little care and sorrow to 
try them as God sees fit to send. To be loved and chosen by a good man is 
the best and sweetest thing which can happen to a woman, and I sincerely 
hope my girls may know this beautiful experience. It is natural to think of it, 
Meg, right to hope and wait for it, and wise to prepare for it, so that when 
the happy time comes, you may feel ready for the duties and worthy of the 
joy. My dear girls, I am ambitious for you, but not to have you make a dash 
in the world, marry rich men merely because they are rich, or have splendid 
houses, which are not homes because love is wanting. Money is a needful 
and precious thing, and when well used, a noble thing, but I never want you 
to think it is the first or only prize to strive for. I
s 
wives, if you were happy, beloved, contented, than queens on thrones,  
without self-respect and peace." 
"Poor girls don
 sighed Meg. 

ll be old maids," said Jo stoutly. "right, Jo. Better be happy old 
maids than unhappy wives, or unmaidenly girls, running about to find 
husbands," said Mrs. March decidedly. "Don
 

 cried both, with all their hearts, as she bade 
them good night. 
95
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER TEN 
As spring came on, a new set of amusements became the fashion, and the 
lengthening days gave long afternoons for work and play of all sorts. The 
garden had to be put in order,  and each sister had a quarter of the little 
plot to do what she liked with. Hannah used to say, 
d know which each of 
them gardings belonged to, ef I see 
 and so she might, for the 
girls' tastes differed as much as their characters. Meg's had roses and 
heliotrope, myrtle, and a little orange tree in it. Jo's bed was never alike two 
seasons, for she was always trying experiments. This year it was to be a 
plantation of sun flowers, the seeds of which cheerful land aspiring plant 
were to feed Aunt Cockle-top and her family of chicks. Beth had old
fashioned fragrant flowers in her garden, sweet peas and mignonette, 
larkspur, pinks, pansies, and southernwood, with chickweed for the birds 
and catnip for the pussies. Amy had a bower in hers, rather small and 
earwiggy, but very pretty to look at, with honeysuckle and morning-glories 
hanging their colored horns and bells in graceful wreaths all over it, tall 
white lilies, delicate ferns, and as many brilliant, picturesque plants as 
would consent to blossom there. 
Gardening, walks, rows on the river, and flower hunts employed the fine 
days, and for rainy ones, they had house diversions, some old, some new, all 
more or less original. One of these was the `P.C', for as secret societies were 
the fashion, it was thought proper to have one, and as all of the girls 
admired Dickens, they called themselves the Pickwick Club. With a few 
interruptions, they had kept this up for a year, and met every Saturday 
evening in the big garret, on which occasions the ceremonies were as 
follows: Three chairs were arranged in a row before a table on which was a 
lamp, also four white badges, with a big `P.C.' in different colors on each, 
and the weekly newspaper called, The Pickwick Portfolio, to which all 
contributed something, while Jo, who reveled in pens and ink, was the 
editor. At seven o'clock, the four members ascended to the clubroom, tied 
their badges round their heads, and took their seats with great solemnity. 
Meg, as the eldest, was Samuel Pickwick, Jo, being of a literary turn, 
Augustus Snodgrass, Beth, because she was round and rosy, Tracy 
Tupman, and Amy, who was always trying to do what she couldn't, was 
Nathaniel Winkle. Pickwick, the president, read the paper, which was filled 
with original tales, poetry, local news, funny advertisements, and hints, in 
which they good-naturedly reminded each other of their faults and short 
comings. On one occasion, Mr. Pickwick put on a pair of spectacles without 
96
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 any glass, rapped upon the table, hemmed, and having stared hard at Mr. 
Snodgrass, who was tilting back in his chair, till he arranged himself 
properly, began to read: 

 
MAY 20, 18--- 
POET'S CORNER 
ANNIVERSARY ODE 
 Again we meet to celebrate With badge and solemn rite,  Our fifty-second 
anniversary, In Pickwick Hall, tonight. 
We all are here in perfect health, None gone from our small band: Again we 
see each well-known face, And press each friendly hand. 
Our Pickwick, always at his post, With reverence we greet,  As, spectacles on 
nose, he reads Our well-filled weekly sheet. 
Although he suffers from a cold, We joy to hear him speak, For words of 
wisdom from him fall, In spite of croak or squeak. 
Old six-foot Snodgrass looms on high, With elephantine grace,  And beams 
upon the company, With brown and jovial face. 
Poetic fire lights up his eye, He struggles 'gainst his lot. Behold ambition on 
his brow, And on his nose, a blot. 
Next our peaceful Tupman comes, So rosy, plump, and sweet,  Who chokes 
with laughter at the puns, And tumbles off his seat. 
Prim little Winkle too is here, With every hair in place,  A model of propriety, 
Though he hates to wash his face. 
The year is gone, we still unite. To joke and laugh and read,  And tread the 
path of literature. That doth to glory lead. 
Long may our paper prosper well, Our club unbroken be,  And coming years 
their blessings pour On the useful, gay `P. C.'. A. SNODGRASS 
97
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 THE MASKED MARRIAGE (A Tale Of Venice) 
Gondola after gondola swept up to the marble steps, and left its lovely load 
to swell the brilliant throng that filled the stately halls of Count Adelon. 
Knights and ladies, elves and pages, monks and flower girls, all mingled 
gaily in the dance. Sweet voices and rich melody filled the air, and so with 
mirth and music the masquerade went on. 
 asked a gallant troubadour of the fairy queen 
whofloated down the hall upon his arm. 
 

 returned the troubadour. 

 said the lady, as they joined the dance. 
The revel was at its height when a priest appeared, and withdrawing the 
young pair to an alcove,  hung with purple velvet, he motioned them to 
kneel. Instant silence fell on the gay throng, and not a sound, but he dash of 
fountains or the rustle of orange groves sleeping in the moonlight, broke the 
hush, as Count de Adelon spoke thus: 

 All eyes 
turned toward the bridal party, and a murmur of amazement went through 
the throng, for neither bride nor groom removed their masks. Curiosity and 
wonder possessed all hearts, but respect restrained all tongues till the holy 
rite was over. Then the eager spectators gathered round the count, 
demanding an explanation. 

 
But neither bent the knee, for the young bridegroom replied in a tone that 
startled all listeners as the mask fell, disclosing the noble face of Ferdinand 
Devereux, the artist lover, and leaning on the breast where now flashed the 
star of an English earl was the lovely Viola, radiant with joy and beauty. 

To you, my gallant 
friends, I can only wish that your wooing may prosper as mine has done, 
and that you may all win as fair a bride as I have by this masked marriage.
t write his piece in this fine paper I hope you will pardon his 
badness and let him send a French fable because he can
s cart, and 
it is feared that some villain, tempted by her charms, basely stole her. 
Weeks have passed, but no trace of her has been discovered, and we 
relinquish all hope, tie a black ribbon to her basket, set aside her dish, and 
weep for her as one lost to us forever. 
A sympathizing friend sends the following gem: 
 A LAMENT (FOR S. B. PAT PAW) 
We mourn the loss of our little pet, And sigh o
ll sit, Nor play by the old green gate. 
The little grave where her infant sleeps Is 
er 
her grave we may not weep, We know not where it may be. 
Her empty bed, her idle ball, Will never see her more;No gentle tap, no loving 
purr. Is heard at the parlor door. 
100
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 Another cat comes after her mice, A cat with a dirty face,  But she does not 
hunt as our darling did, Nor play with her airy grace. 
Her stealthy paws tread the very hall. Where Snowball used to play, But she 
only spits at the dogs our pet. So gallantly drove away. 
She is useful and mild, and does her best, But she is not fair to see,  And we 
cannot give her your place dear, Nor worship her as we worship thee. A.S. 
ADVERTISEMENTS  
Miss Oranthy Bluggage, the accomplished strong-minded lecturer, will 
deliver her famous lecture on "WOMAN AND HER POSITION"at Pickwick 
Hall, next Saturday Evening, after the usual performances. 
A weekly meeting will be held at Kitchen place, to teach young ladies how to 
cook.Hannah Brown will preside, and all are invited to attend. 
The DUSTPAN SOCIETY will meet on Wednesday next, and parade in the 
upper story of the Club House. All members to appear in uniform and 
shoulder their brooms at nine precisely. 
Mrs. Beth Bouncer will open her newassortment of Doll
t use so much soap on his hands, he wouldn
t forget 
Amy
Mr. President and gentlemen,
I wish to propose the admission of a new member--one who 
highly deserves the honor, would be deeply grateful for it, and would add 
immensely to the spirit of the club, the literary value of the paper, and be no 
end jolly and nice. I propose Mr. Theodore Laurence as an honorary member 
of the P. C. Come now, do have him.
s sudden change of tone made the girls laugh, but all looked rather 
anxious, and no one said a word as Snodgrass took his seat. 
"We
 said the President. 
." 
"Contrary-minded say, `No
 
Meg and Amy were contrary-minded, and Mr. Winkle rose to say with great 
elegance, 
t wish any boys, they only joke and bounce about. This is 
a ladies
 

m afraid he
 observed 
Pickwick, pulling the little curl on her forehead, as she always did when 
doubtful. 
Up rose Snodgrass, very much in earnest. 
t do anything of the sort. He likes to write, and he
t 
you see? We can do so little for him, and he does so much for us, I think the 
least we can do is to offer him a place here, and make him welcome if he 
comes." 
This artful allusion to benefits conferred brought Tupman to his feet, looking 
as if he had quite made up his mind. 
102
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Yes, we ought to do it, even if we are afraid. I say he may come, and his 
grandpa, too, if he likes." 
This spirited burst from Beth electrified the club, and Jo left her seat to 
shake hands approvingly. "Now then, vote again. Everybody remember it
" cried Snodgrass excitedly. 
"Aye! Aye! Aye!" replied three voices at once. 
"Good! Bless you! Now, as there
, as 
Winkle characteristically observes, allow me to present the new member." 
And, to the dismay of the rest of the club, Jo threw open the door of the 
closet, and displayed Laurie sitting on a rag bag, flushed and twinkling with 
suppressed laughter. 
"You rogue! You traitor! Jo, how could you?" cried the three girls, as 
Snodgrass led her friend triumphantly forth, and producing both a chair 
and a badge, installed him in a jiffy. 
"The coolness of you two rascals is amazing," began Mr. Pickwick, trying to 
get up an awful frown and only succeeding in producing an amiable smile. 
But the new member was equal to the occasion, and rising, with a grateful 
salutation to the Chair, said in the most engaging manner, "Mr. President 
and ladies--I beg pardon, gentlemen--allow me to introduce myself as Sam 
Weller, the very humble servant of the club." 
"Good! Good!" cried Jo, pounding with the handle of the old warming pan on 
which she leaned. 
"My faithful friend and noble patron," continued Laurie with a wave of the 
hand, "who has so flatteringly presented me, is not to be blamed for the base 
stratagem of tonight. I planned it, and she only gave in after lots of teasing." 
"Come now, don
 
broke in Snodgrass, who was enjoying the joke amazingly. 

m the wretch that did it, sir," said the new 
member, with a Welleresque nod to Mr. Pickwick. "But on my honor, I never 
will do so again, and henceforth devote myself to the interest of this 
immortal club." 
"Hear! Hear!" cried Jo, clashing the lid of the warming pan like a cymbal. 
"Go on, go on!" added Winkle and Tupman, while the President bowed 
benignly. 
103
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "I merely wish to say, that as a slight token of my gratitude for the honor 
done me, and as a means of promoting friendly relations between adjoining 
nations, I have set up a post office in the hedge in the lower corner of the 
garden, a fine, spacious building with padlocks on the doors and every 
convenience for the mails, also the females, if I may be allowed the 
expression. It
ve stopped up the door and made 
the roof open, so it will hold all sorts of things, and save our valuable time. 
Letters, manuscripts, books, and bundles can be passed in there, and as 
each nation has a key, it will be uncommonly nice, I fancy. Allow me to 
present the club key, and with many thanks for your favor, take my seat." 
Great applause as Mr. Weller deposited a little key on the table and 
subsided, the warming pan clashed and waved wildly, and it was some time 
before order could be restored. A long discussion followed, and everyone 
came out surprising, for everyone did her best. So it was an unusually lively 
meeting, and did not adjourn till a late hour, when it broke up with three 
shrill cheers for the new member. No one ever regretted the admittance of 
Sam Weller, for a more devoted, well-behaved, and jovial member no club 
could have. He certainly did add `spirit
 to the 
paper, for his orations convulsed his hearers and his contributions were 
excellent, being patriotic, classical, comical, or dramatic, but never 
sentimental. Jo regarded them as worthy of Bacon, Milton,  or Shakespeare, 
and remodeled her own works with good effect, she thought. 
The P. O. was a capital little institution, and flourished wonderfully, for 
nearly as many queer things passed through it as through the real post 
office. Tragedies and cravats, poetry and pickles, garden seeds and long 
letters, music and gingerbread, rubbers, invitations, scoldings, and puppies. 
The old gentleman liked the fun, and amused himself by sending odd 
bundles, mysterious messages, and funny telegrams, and his gardener, who 
was smitten with Hannah
The first of June! The Kings are off to the seashore tomorrow, and I'm free. 
Three months' vacation--how I shall enjoy it!
Aunt March went today, for which, oh, be joyful!
I was mortally 
afraid she'd ask me to go with her. If she had, I should have felt as if I ought 
to do it, but Plumfield is about as gay as a churchyard, you know, and I'd 
rather be excused. We had a flurry getting the old lady off, and I had a fright 
every time she spoke to me, for I was in such a hurry to be through that I 
was uncommonly helpful and sweet, and feared she'd find it impossible to 
part from me. I quaked till she was fairly in the carriage, and had a final 
fright, for as it drove of, she popped out her head, saying, `Josyphine, won't 
you--?' I didn't hear any more, for I basely turned and fled. I did actually 
run, and whisked round the corner whee I felt safe.
Poor old Jo! She came in looking as if bears were after her,
s feet with a motherly air. 
"Aunt March is a regular samphire, is she not?" observed Amy,  tasting her 
mixture critically. 
"She means vampire, not seaweed, but it doesn
s too warm to be 
particular about one
 murmured Jo. 

 asked Amy, changing the subject with 
tact. 

 replied Meg, from the depths of the 
rocking chair. 
ve been routed up early all winter and had to spend my 
days working for other people, so now I
s content." 
"No," said Jo, "that dozy way wouldn
ve laid in a heap of books, 
and I
m not having l..." 
"Don
" implored Amy, as a return snub for the samphire
I'll say `nightingales' then, with Laurie. That's proper and appropriate, since 
he's a warbler.
Don't let us do any lessons, Beth, for a while, but play all the time and rest, 
as the girls mean to,
Well, I will, if Mother doesn't mind. I want to learn some new songs, and my 
children need fitting up for the summer. They are dreadfully out of order 
and really suffering for clothes.
May we, Mother?
s corner
You may try your experiment for a week 
and see how you like it. I think by Saturday night you will find that all play 
and no work is as bad as all work and no play.
Oh, dear, no! It will be delicious, I'm sure,
I now propose a toast, as my `friend and pardner, Sairy Gamp', says. Fun 
forever, and no grubbing!
clock. Her solitary 
breakfast did not taste nice, and the room seemed lonely and untidy, for Jo 
had not filled the vases, Beth had not dusted, and Amy
s corner
, which meant to yawn and 
imagine what pretty summer dresses she would get with her salary. Jo 
spent the morning on the river with Laurie and the afternoon reading and 
crying over The Wide,  Wide World, up in the apple tree. Beth began by 
rummaging everything out of the big closet where her family resided, but 
getting tired before half done, she left her establishment topsy-turvy and 
went to her music, rejoicing that she had no dishes to wash. Amy arranged 
her bower, put on her best white frock, smoothed her curls, and sat down to 
draw under the honeysuckle, hoping someone would see and inquire who 
the young artist was. As no one appeared but an inquisitive daddy-longlegs, 
who examined her work with interest, she went to walk, got caught in a 
shower, and came home dripping. 
At teatime they compared notes, and all agreed that it had been a delightful, 
though unusually long day. Meg, who went shopping in the afternoon and 
got a `sweet blue muslin, had discovered,  after she had cut the breadths off, 
that it wouldn
s party was to be the next day and now like Flora 
McFlimsey, she had `nothing to wear
s help did their neglected work, keeping 
home pleasant and the domestic machinery running smoothly. It was 
astonishing what a peculiar and uncomfortable state of things was produced 
by the `resting and reveling
. Amy fared worst of all,  for her resources were small, 
and when her sisters left her to amuse herself, she soon found that 
accomplished and important little self a great burden. She didn
t draw all the time. Tea parties 
didn
If 
one could have a fine house, full of nice girls, or go traveling, the summer 
would be delightful, but to stay at home with three selfish sisters and a 
grown-up boy was enough to try the patience of a Boaz,
Mercy on us! What has happened?
Mother isn't sick, only very tired, and she says she is going to stay quietly 
in her room all day and let us do the best we can. It's a very queer thing for 
her to do, she doesn't act a bit like herself. But she says it has been a hard 
week for her, so we mustn't grumble but take care of ourselves.
That's easy enough, and I like the idea, I'm aching for something to do, that 
is, some new amusement, you know,
s saying, 
"Housekeeping ain
 There was plenty of food in the larder, and 
while Beth and Amy set the table, Meg and Jo got breakfast, wondering as 
they did why servants ever talked about hard work. 

d take care of herself," said Meg, who presided and felt quite 
matronly behind the teapot. 
So a tray was fitted out before anyone began, and taken up with the cook
Poor little souls, they will have a hard time, I'm afraid,  but they won't 
suffer, and it will do them good,
Never mind, I'll get the dinner and be servant, you be mistress, 
keep your hands nice, see company, and give orders,
You'd better see what you have got before you think of having company,
Oh, there's corned beef and plenty of poatoes, and I shall get some 
asparagus and a lobster, `for a relish', as Hannah says. We'll have lettuce 
and make a salad. I don't know how, but the book tells. I'll have blancmange 
and strawberries for dessert,  and coffee too, if you want to be elegant.
Don't try too many messes, Jo, for you can't make anything but 
gingerbread and molasses candy fit to eat. I wash my hands of the dinner 
party, and since you have asked Laurie on your own responsibility, you may 
just take care of him.
I don't want you to do anything but be civil to him and help to the pudding. 
You'll give me your advice if I get in a muddle,  won't you?
Yes, but I don't know much, except about bread and a few trifles. You had 
better ask Mother's leave before you order anything,
Of course I shall. I'm not a fool.
Get what you like, and don't disturb me. I'm going out to dinner and can't 
worry about things at home,
I 
never enjoyed housekeeping, and I'm going to take a vacation today, and 
read, write, go visiting, and amuse myself.
Everything is out of sorts, somehow,
There's Beth crying, that's a sure sign that something is wrong in this 
family. If Amy is bothering, I'll shake her.
It's all my fault, I forgot him, there isn't a seed or a drop left. Oh, Pip! Oh, 
Pip! How could I be so cruel to you?
Put him in the oven, and maybe his will get warm and revive,
He's been starved, and he shan't be baked now he's dead. I'll make him a 
shroud, and he shall be buried in the garden, and I'll never have another 
bird, never, my Pip! For I am too bad to own one,
The funeral shall be this 
afternoon, and we will all go. Now,  don't cry, Bethy. It's a pity, but nothing 
goes right this week,  and Pip has had the worst of the experiment. Make the 
shroud, and lay him in my box, and after the dinner party, we'll have a nice 
little funeral,
Here's a sweet prospect!
I say, isn't bread `riz' enough when it runs over the pans?
d come to 
dinner. Now this lady was a thin, yellow spinster, with a sharp nose and 
inquisitive eyes, who saw everything and gossiped about all she saw. They 
disliked her, but had been taught to be kind to her, simply because she was 
old and poor and had few friends. So Meg gave her the easy chair and tried 
to entertain her, while she asked questions,  critsized everything, and told 
stories of the people whom she knew. 
Language cannot describe the anxieties, experiences, and exertions which 
Jo underwent that morning, and the dinner she served up became a 
standing joke. Fearing to ask any more advice, she did her best alone,  and 
discovered that something more than energy and good will is necessary to 
make a cook. She boiled the asparagus for an hour and was grieved to find 
the heads cooked off and the stalks harder than ever. The bread burned 
black, for the salad dressing so aggravated her that she could not make it fit 
to ear. The lobster was a scarlet mystery to her, but she hammered and 
poked till it was unshelled and its meager proportions concealed in a grove 
of lettuce leaves. The potatoes had to be hurried, not to keep the asparagus 
waiting, and were not done at the last. The blancmange was lumpy, and the 
strawberries not as ripe as they looked, having been skilfully `deaconed
Well, they can eat beef and bread and butter, if they are hungry, only it's 
mortifying to have to spend your whole morning for nothing,
s one strong point was the fruit, for she 
had sugared it well, and had a pitcher of rich cream to eat with it. Her hot 
cheeks cooled a trifle, and she drew a long breath as the pretty glass plates 
went round, and everyone looked graciously at the little rosy islands floating 
in a sea of cream. Miss Crocker tasted first, made a wry face, and drank 
some water hastily. Jo, who refused, thinking there might not be enough, for 
they dwindled sadly after the picking over, glanced at Laurie, but he was 
eating away manfully, though there was a slight pucker about his mouth 
111
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 and he kept his eye fixed on his plate. Amy, who was fond of delicate fare, 
took a heaping spoonful,  choked, hid her face in her napkin, and left the 
table precipitately. 
"Oh, what is it?" exclaimed Jo, trembling. 
"Salt instead of sugar, and the cream is sour," replied Meg with a tragic 
gesture. 
Jo uttered a groan and fell back in her chair, remembering that she had 
given a last hasty powdering to the berries out of one of the two boxes on the 
kitchen table, and had neglected to put the milk in the refrigerator. She 
turned scarlet and was on the verge of crying, when she met Laurie
 as the girls called the old lady,  
and the unfortunate dinner ended gaily, with bread and butter, olives and 
fun. 
"I haven
 said Jo, as they rose, and Miss Crocker made 
ready to go, being eager to tell the new story at another friend's dinner table. 
They did sober themselves for Beth's sake. Laurie dug a grave under the 
ferns in the grove, little Pip was laid in, with many tears by his tender
hearted mistress, and covered with moss, while a wreath of violets and 
chickweed was hung on the stone which bore his epitaph,  composed by Jo 
while she struggled with the dinner. 
Here lies Pip March,  Who died the 7th of June; Loved and lamented sore,  
And not forgotten soon. 
At the conclusion of the ceremonies, Beth retired to her room,  overcome 
with emotion and lobster, but there was no place of repose,  for the beds 
were not made, and she found her grief much assuaged by beating up the 
pillows and putting things in order. Meg helped Jo clear away the remains of 
the feast, which took half the afternoon and left them so tired that they 
agreed to be contented with tea and toast for supper. 
Laurie took Amy to drive, which was a deed of charity, for the sour cream 
seemed to have had a bad effect upon her temper. Mrs. March came home to 
find the three older girls hard at work in the middle of the afternoon, and a 
glance at the closet gave her an idea of the success of one part of the 
experiment. 
112
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 Before the housewives could rest, several people called, and there was a 
scramble to get ready to see them. Then tea must be got,  errands done, and 
one or two necessary bits of sewing neglected until the last minute. As 
twilight fell, dewy and still, one by one they gathered on the porch where the 
June roses were budding beautifully,  and each groaned or sighed as she sat 
down, as if tired or troubled. 

 began Jo, usually the first to speak. 

 said Meg. 

 added Amy. 

t seem so without Marmee and little Pip," sighed Beth,  glancing with 
full eyes at the empty cage above her head. 
"Here
 
As she spoke, Mrs. March came and took her place among them,  looking as 
if her holiday had not been much pleasanter than theirs. 

 she asked, as Beth nestled up to her and the rest turned toward her 
with brightening faces, as flowers turn toward the sun. 

t!" cried Jo decidedly. 
"Nor I," echoed the others. 
"You think then, that it is better to have a few duties and live a little for 
others, do you?" 
"Lounging and larking doesn
 observed Jo, shaking her head. 
m 
tired of it and mean to go to work at something right off." 
"Suppose you learn plain cooking. That
 said Mrs. March, laughing inaudibly at the 
recollection of Jo's dinner party, for she had met Miss Crocker and heard 
her account of it. 

d get on?" 
cried Meg, who had had suspicions all day. 
"Yes, I wanted you to see how the comfort of all depends on each doing her 
share faithfully. While Hannah and I did your work,  you got on pretty well, 
113
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 though I don
t you feel that it is pleasanter to help one another, to have daily 
duties which make leisure sweet when it comes, and to bear and forbear,  
that home may be comfortable and lovely to us all?" 
"We do, Mother we do!" cried the girls. 
"Then let me advise you to take up your little burdens again,  for though 
they seem heavy sometimes, they are good for us, and lighten as we learn to 
carry them. Work is wholesome, and there is plenty for everyone. It keeps us 
from ennui and mischief, is good for health and spirits, and gives us a sense 
of power and independence better than money or fashion." 
"We
t," said Jo. "I
 

ll make the set of shirts for father, instead of letting you do it, Marmee. I 
can and I will, though I
 said 
Meg. 

ll do my lessons every day, and not spend so much time with my music 
and dolls. I am a stupid thing, and ought to be studying,  not playing," was 
Beth
I shall learn to make buttonholes, and attend to my parts of speech.
Very good! Then I am quite satisfied with the experiment, and fancy that we 
shall not have to repeat it, only don't go to the other extreme and delve like 
slaves. Have regular hours for work and play,  make each day both useful 
and pleasant, and prove that you understand the worth of time by 
employing it well. Then youth will be delightful,  old age will bring few 
regrets, and life become a beautiful success, in spite of poverty.
We'll remember, Mother!
Here's your posy, Mother! Laurie never forgets that,
s corner
Miss Meg March, one letter and a glove,
Why, I left a pair over there, and here is only one,
Didn't you drop the other in the garden?
No, I'm sure I didn't, for there was only one in the office.
I hate to have odd gloves! Never mind, the other may be found. My letter is 
only a translation of the German song I wanted. I think Mr. Brooke did it, for 
this isn't Laurie's writing.
s mind as she sewed and sang, 
while her fingers flew and her thoughts were busied with girlish fancies as 
innocent and fresh as the pansies in her belt, that Mrs. March smiled and 
was satisfied. 
"Two letters for Doctor Jo, a book, and a funny old hat,  which covered the 
whole post office and stuck outside," said Beth, laughing as she went into 
the study where Jo sat writing. 
"What a sly fellow Laurie is! I said I wished bigger hats were the fashion, 
because I burn my face every hot day. He said,  `Why mind the fashion? 
Wear a big hat, and be comfortable!
ll wear it for fun, and show him I don
 And hanging the antique broadbrim on a bust of Plato, Jo read her 
letters. 
One from her mother made her cheeks glow and her eyes fill,  for it said to 
her... 
115
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 My Dear: 
I write a little word to tell you with how much satisfaction I watch your 
efforts to control your temper. You say nothing about your trials, failures, or 
successes, and think, perhaps,  that no one sees them but the Friend whose 
help you daily ask,  if I may trust the well-worn cover of your guidebook. I, 
too,  have seen them all, and heartily believe in the sincerity of your 
resolution, since it begins to bear fruit. Go on, dear,  patiently and bravely, 
and always believe that no one sympathizes more tenderly with you than 
your loving... 
Mother 
 
s worth millions of money and pecks of praise. 
Oh, Marmee, I do try! I will keep on trying,  and not get tired, since I have 
you to help me." 
Laying her head on her arms, Jo wet her little romance with a few happy 
tears. for she had thought that no one saw and appreciated her efforts to be 
good, and this assurance was doubly precious, doubly encouraging, because 
unexpected and from the person whose commendation she most valued. 
Feeling stronger than ever to meet and subdue her Apollyon, she pinned the 
note inside her frock, as a shield and a reminder, lest she be taken unaware, 
and proceeded to open her other letter, quite ready for either good or bad 
news. In a big, dashing hand, Laurie wrote... 
Dear Jo,  What ho! 
Some english girls and boys are coming to see me tomorrow and I want to 
have a jolly time. If it
m going to pitch my tent in Longmeadow, and 
row up the whole crew to lunch and croquet--have a fire, make messes, 
gypsy fashion, and all sorts of larks. They are nice people, and like such 
things. Brooke will go to keep us boys steady, and Kate Vaughn will play 
propriety for the girls. I want you all to come, can
t bother about rations, I
s a good fellow! 
In a tearing hurry,  Yours ever, Laurie. 
"Here
 cried Jo, flying in to tell the news to Meg. 

 
116
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
 asked Meg. 

t admire Kate much." 
"I
s just the thing and so becoming!" 
observed Meg complacently. "Have you anything decent, Jo?" 
"Scarlet and gray boating suit, good enough for me. I shall row and tramp 
about, so I don
ll come, Betty?" 
"If you won
 

 

m not afraid of Mr. Brooke,  he is so kind. But I 
don
ll work hard and not trouble 
anyone, and you
ll go." 
"That
t easy, as I know, and a cheery word kind of gives a lift. 
Thank you, Mother," And Jo gave the thin cheek a grateful kiss, more 
precious to Mrs. March than if it had given back the rosy roundness of her 
youth. 
"I had a box of chocolate drops, and the picture I wanted to copy," said Amy, 
showing her mail. 
"And I got a note from Mr. Laurence, asking me to come over and play to 
him tonight, before the lamps are lighted, and I shall go," added Beth, whose 
friendship with the old gentleman prospered finely. "Now let
 said 
Jo, preparing to replace her pen with a broom. 
When the sun peeped into the girls' room early next morning to promise 
them a fine day, he saw a comical sight. Each had made such preparation 
for the fete as seemed necessary and proper. Meg had an extra row of little 
curlpapers across her forehead, Jo had copiously anointed her afflicted face 
with cold cream, Beth had taken Joanna to bed with her to atone for the 
approaching separation, and Amy had capped the climax by putting a 
colthespin on her nose to uplift the offending feature. It was one of the kind 
artists use to hold the paper on their drawing boards, therefore quite 
117
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 appropriate and effective for the purpose it was now being put. This funny 
spectacle appeared to amuse the sun, for he burst out with such radiance 
that Jo woke up and roused her sisters by a hearty laugh at Amy's 
ornament. 
Sunshine and laughter were good omens for a pleasure party,  and soon a 
lively bustle began in both houses. Beth, who was ready first, kept reporting 
what went on next door, and enlivened her sisters' toilets by frequent 
telegrams from the window. 

s Laurie, looking like a sailor, 
nice boy! Oh, mercy me! Here
s got a crutch. 
Laurie didn
s getting late. Why, there is Ned 
Moffat, I do declare. Meg, isn
 

m glad she got back in time. Am I all right, Jo?" 
cried Meg in a flutter. 
"A regular daisy. Hold up your dress and put your hat on straight, it looks 
sentimental tipped that way and will fly off at the first puff. Now then, come 
on!" 
"Oh, Jo, you are not going to wear that awful hat? It
 remonstrated Meg,  as Jo tied down with a red 
ribbon the broad-brimmed, old-fashioned leghorn Laurie had sent for a joke. 

s capital, so shady, light, and big. It will make fun, 
and I don
m comfortable." With that Jo marched 
straight away and the rest followed,  a bright little band of sisters, all 
looking their best in summer suits, with happy faces under the jaunty 
hatbrims. 
Laurie ran to meet and present them to his friends in the most cordial 
manner. The lawn was the reception room, and for several minutes a lively 
scene was enacted there. Meg was grateful to see that Miss Kate, though 
twenty, was dressed with a simplicity which American girls would do well to 
imitate, and who was much flattered by Mr. Ned
 
when speaking of Kate, for that young lady had a standoff-don
,  but gentle and feeble, and she would be kind to him 
on that account. Amy found Grace a well-mannered, merry, little person,  
and after staring dumbly at one another for a few minutes, they suddenly 
became very good friends. 
Tents, lunch, and croquet utensils having been sent on beforehand, the 
party was soon embarked, and the two boats pushed off together, leaving 
Mr. Laurence waving his hat on the shore. Laurie and Jo rowed one boat, 
Mr. Brooke and Ned the other, while Fred Vaughn, the riotous twin, did his 
best to upset both by paddling about in a wherry like a disturbed water bug. 
Jo
, but rather clever, and smiled upon her 
from afar. 
Meg, in the other boat, was delightfully situated, face to face with the 
rowers, who both admired the prospect and feathered their oars with 
uncommon `skill and dexterity
Welcome to Camp Laurence!
Brooke is commander in chief, I am commissary general, the other fellows 
are staff officers, and you, ladies, are company. The tent is for your especial 
benefit and that oak is your drawing room, this is the messroom and the 
119
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 third is the camp kitchen. Now,  let's have a game before it gets hot, and 
then we'll see about dinner.
I'm through! Now, Miss Jo, I'll settle you, and get in first,
You pushed it. I saw you. It's my turn now,
Upon my word, I didn't move it. It rolled a bit, perhaps,  but that is allowed. 
So, stand off please, and let me have a go at the stake.
We don't cheat in America, but you can, if you choose,
Yankees are a deal the most tricky, everybody knows. There you go!
s ball was 
the last but one and lay near the stake. 
"By George, it
 cried Fred excitedly, as they all drew near to see the finish. 

 said Jo, with a 
look that made the lad redden, 
 she added, 
as, leaving Kate's ball untouched, she won the game by a clever stroke. 
Laurie threw up his hat, then remembered that it wouldn't do to exult over 
the defeat of his guests, and stopped in the middle of the cheer to whisper to 
120
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 his friend, 
t tell him so, 
but he won
 
Meg drew her aside, under pretense of pinning up a loose braid, and said 
approvingly, 
m 
so glad, Jo." 
"Don
t stayed among the nettles till I got my 
rage under control enough to hold my tongue.. It
ll keep out of my way," returned Jo, biting her lips as she glowered at 
Fred from under her big hat. 
"Time for lunch," said Mr. Brooke, looking at his watch. "Commissary 
general, will you make the fire and get water, while Miss March, Miss Sallie, 
and I spread the table? Who can make good coffee?" 
"Jo can," said Meg, glad to recommend her sister. So Jo,  feeling that her 
late lessons in cookery were to do her honor, went to preside over the 
coffeepot, while the children collected dry sticks, and the boys made a fire 
and got water from a spring near by. Miss Kate sketched and Frank talked 
to Beth, who was making little mats of braided rushes to serve as plates. 
The commander in chief and his aides soon spread the tablecloth with an 
inviting array of eatables and drinkables, prettily decorated with green 
leaves. Jo announced that the coffee was ready, and everyone settled 
themselves to a hearty meal, for youth is seldom dyspeptic, and exercise 
develops wholesome appetites. A very merry lunch it was, for everything 
seemed fresh and funny, and frequent peals of laughter startled a venerable 
horse who fed near by. There was a pleasing inequality in the table, which 
produced many mishaps to cups and plates, acorns dropped in the milk, 
little black ants partook of the refreshments without being invited, and fuzzy 
caterpillars swung down from the tree to see what was going on. Three 
white-headed children peeped over the fence, and an objectionable dog 
barked at them from the other side of the river with all his might and main. 
"There
 said Laurie, as he handed Jo a saucer of berries. 

 she replied, fishing up two unwary little ones 
who had gone to a creamy death. 
s is so nice in every way?
I had an uncommonly good time that day, and haven't got over it yet. This 
is no credit to me, you know, I don't do anything. It's you and Meg and 
Brooke who make it all go, and I'm no end obliged to you. what shall we do 
when we can't eat anymore?
Have games till it's cooler. I brought Authors, and I dare say Miss Kate 
knows something new and nice. Go and ask her. She's company, and you 
ought to stay with her more.
Aren't you company too? I thought she'd suit Brooke, but he keeps talking 
to Meg, and Kate just stares at them through that ridiculous glass of hers'. 
I'm going, so you needn't try to preach propriety, for you can't do it, Jo.
One person begins a story, any nonsense you like, and tells as long as he 
pleases, only taking care to stop short at some exciting point, when the next 
takes it up and does the same. It's very funny when well done, and makes a 
perfect jumble of tragical comical stuff to laugh over. Please start it, Mr. 
Brooke,
Once on a time, a knight went out into the world to seek his fortune, for he 
had nothing but his sword and his shield. He traveled a long while, nearly 
eight-and-twenty years, and had a hard time of it, till he came to the palace 
of a good old king, who had offered a reward to anyone who could tame and 
train a fine but unbroken colt, of which he was very fond. The knight agreed 
to try, and got on slowly but surely, for the colt was a gallant fellow, and 
soon learned to love his new master, though he was freakish and wild. Every 
day, when he gave his lessons to this pet of the king's, the knight rode him 
through the city, and as he rode, he looked everywhere for a certain 
beautiful face,  which he had seen many times in his dreams, but never 
found. One day, as he went prancing down a quiet street, he saw at the 
window of a ruinous castle the lovely face. He was delighted, inquired who 
lived in this old castle, and was told that several captive princesses were 
kept there by a spell, and spun all day to lay up money to buy their liberty. 
122
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 The knight wished intensely that he could free them, but he was poor and 
could only go by each day, watching for the sweet face and longing to see it 
out in the sunshine. At last he resolved to get into the castle and ask how he 
could help them. He went and knocked. The great door flew open, and he 
beheld . ..
A ravishingly lovely lady, who exclaimed, with a cry of rapture, `At last! At 
last!'
`Tis she!' cried Count Gustave, and fell at her feet in an ecstasy of joy. `Oh, 
rise!' she said, extending a hand of marble fairness. `Never! Till you tell me 
how I may rescue you, ' swore the knight, still kneeling. `Alas, my cruel fate 
condemns me to remain here till my tyrant is destroyed.' `Where is the 
villain?' `In the mauve salon. Go,  brave heart, and save me from despair.' `I 
obey, and return victorious or dead!' With these thrilling words he rushed 
away,  and flinging open the door of the mauve salon, was about to enter,  
when he received...
A stunning blow from the big Greek lexicon, which an 
old fellow in a black gown fired at him,
Instantly, Sir What's-his
name recovered himself, pitched the tyrant out of the window, and turned to 
join the lady, victorious, but with a bump on his brow, found the door 
locked, tore up the curtains, made a rope ladder, got halfway down when the 
ladder broke, and he went headfirst into the moat, sixty feet below. Could 
swim like a duck, paddled round the castle till he came to a little door 
guarded by two stout fellows, knocked their heads together till they cracked 
like a couple of nuts, then, by a trifling exertion of his prodigious strength, 
he smashed in the door, went up a pair of stone steps covered with dust a 
foot thick, toads as big as your fist, and spiders that would frighten you into 
hysterics,  MIss March. At the top of these steps he came plump upon a 
sight that took his breath away and chilled his blood...
A tall figure, all in white with a veil over its face and a lamp in its wasted 
hand,
It beckoned, gliding noiselessly before him down a 
corridor as dark and cold as any tomb. Shadowy effigies in armor stood on 
either side, a dead silence reigned, the lamp burned blue, and the ghostly 
figure ever and anon turned its face toward him, showing the glitter of awful 
eyes through its white veil. They reached a curtained door, behind which 
sounded lovely music. He sprang forward to enter, but the specter plucked 
him back, and waved threateningly before him a...
Snuffbox,
`Thankee, ' said the knight politely, as he took a pinch and sneezed seven 
times so violently that his head fell off. `Ha! Ha!' laughed the ghost, and 
having peeped through the keyhole at the princesses spinning away for dear 
123
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 life, the evil spirit picked up her victim and put him in a large tin box, where 
there were eleven other knights packed together without their heads, like 
sardines,  who all rose and began to...
Dance a hornpipe,
and,  as they 
danced, the rubbishy old castle turned to a man-of-war in full sail. `Up with 
the jib, reef the tops'l halliards, helm hard alee, and man the guns!' roared 
the captain, as a Portuguese pirate hove in sight, with a flag black as ink 
flying from her foremast. `Go in and win, my hearties!' says the captain, and 
a tremendous fight began. Of course the British beat, they always do.
No, they don't!
Having taken the pirate captain prisoner, sailed slap over the schooner, 
whose decks were piled high with dead and whose lee scuppers ran blood, 
for the order had been `Cutlasses, and die hard!' `Bosun's mate, take a bight 
of the flying-jib sheet,  and start this villain if he doesn't confess his sins 
double quick, ' said the British captain. The Portuguese held his tongue like 
a brick, and walked the plank, while the jolly tars cheered like mad. But the 
sly dog dived, came up under the man-of-war,  scuttled her, and down she 
went, with all sail set, `To the bottom of the sea, sea, sea' where...
Oh, 
gracious! What shall I say?
Well, they went to the bottom, and a nice 
mermaid welcomed them,  but was much grieved on finding the box of 
headless knights, and kindly pickled them in brine, hoping to discover the 
mystery about them, for being a woman, she was curious. By-and-by a diver 
came down, and the mermaid said, `I'll give you a box of pearls if you can 
take it up, ' for she wanted to restore the poor things to life, and couldn't 
raise the heavy load herself. So the diver hoisted it up, and was much 
disappointed on opening it to find no pearls. He left it in a great lonely field, 
where it was found by a...
Little goose girl, who kept a hundred fat geese in the field,
s invention gave out. "The little girl was sorry for them, and asked an 
old woman what she should do to help them. `Your geese will tell you, they 
know everything.
 

" continued Laurie promptly. "`Just the thing, 
m interest 
went back to find the pretty face, and learned that the princesses had spun 
themselves free and all gone and married, but one. He was in a great state of 
mind at that, and mounting the colt, who stood by him through thick and 
thin, rushed to the castle to see which was left. Peeping over the hedge, he 
saw the queen of his affections picking flowers in her garden. `Will you give 
me a rose?
t come to you, it isn
 said she, as sweet as honey. He tried to climb over the hedge, but it 
seemed to grow higher and higher. Then he tried to push through, but it 
grew thicker and thicker, and he was in despair. So he patiently broke twig 
after twig till he had made a little hole through which he peeped, saying 
imploringly, `Let me in! Let me in!
 

t. I
 said Frank, dismayed at the sentimental 
predicament out of which he was to rescue the absurd couple. Beth had 
disappeared behind Jo, and Grace was asleep. 

 asked Mr. 
Brooke, still watching the river, and playing with the wild rose in his 
buttonhole. 

 
said Laurie, smiling to himself, as he threw acorns at his tutor. 

 

 said Meg soberly. 

 

 said Fred. 

s great fun." 
"Let
 said Jo, who liked new experiments. 
Miss Kate and Mr. Booke, Meg, and Ned declined, but Fred,  Sallie, Jo, and 
Laurie piled and drew, and the lot fell to Laurie. 
125
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
 asked Jo. 

 

 said Sallie. 

 

 from Fred. 

 
 And Jo gave a disdainful 
shrug as the rest laughed at Laurie's matter-of-fact tone. 

t a bad game," said Fred. 
"It
 retorted Jo in a low voice. Her turn came next. 

 asked Fred, by way of testing in her the virtue 
he lacked himself. 
"A quick temper." 
"What do you most wish for?" said Laurie. 
"A pair of boot lacings," returned Jo, guessing and defeating his purpose. 
"Not a true answer. You must say what you really do want most." 
"Genius. Don
 And she slyly 
smiled in his disappointed face. 

 asked Sallie. 

 

 said Fred, as his hand came last. 

s give it to him," whispered Laurie to Jo, who nodded and asked at 
once... 
"Didn
 
"Well, yes, a little bit." 
"Good! Didn
 said Laurie. 

 

t you think the English nation perfect in every respect?" asked Sallie. 
126
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "I should be ashamed of myself if I didn
 

s a true John Bull. Now, Miss Sallie, you shall have a chance without 
waiting to draw. I
t 
think you are something of a flirt," said Laurie, as Jo nodded to Fred as a 
sign that peace was declared. 
"You impertinent boy! Of course I
 exclaimed Sallie,  with an air that 
proved the contrary. 

 asked Fred. 

 

 asked Jo. 

 

s have a sensible game of Authors 
to refresh our minds," proposed Jo. 
Ned, frank, and the little girls joined in this, and while it went on, the three 
elders sat apart, talking. Miss Kate took out her sketch again, and Margaret 
watched her, while Mr. Brooke lay on the grass with a book, which he did 
not read. 
"How beautifully you do it! I wish I could draw," said Meg,  with mingled 
admiration and regret in her voice. 
"Why don
 replied 
Miss Kate graciously. 

t time." 
"Your mamma prefers other accomplishments, I fancy. So did mine, but I 
proved to her that I had talent by taking a few lessons privately, and then 
she was quite willing I should go on. Can
 

 

 

t go at all. I am a governess myself." 
127
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Oh. indeed!" said Miss Kate, but she might as well have said,  "Dear me, 
how dreadful!" for her tone implied it, and something in her face made Meg 
color, and wish she had not been so frank. 
Mr. Brooke looked up and said quickly, Young ladies in America love 
independence as much as their ancestors did, and are admired and 
respected for supporting themselves." 
"Oh, yes, of course it
 said Miss Kate in a 
patronizing tone that hurt Meg's pride, and made her work seem not only 
more distasteful, but degrading. 

 inquired Mr. Brooke,  breaking an 
awkward pause. 

m much obliged to whoever translated it 
for me." And Meg
Don't you read German?
Not very well. My father, who taught me, is away, and I don't get on very 
fast alone, for I've no one to correct my pronunciation.
Try a little now. Here is Schiller's Mary Stuart and a tutor who loves to 
teach.
It's so hard I'm afraid to try,
I'll read a bit to encourage you.
I thought it was poetry.
Some of it is. Try this passage.
s mouth as he opened at poor 
Mary
Very well indeed!
You've a nice 
accent and in time will be a clever reader. I advise you to learn, for German 
is a valuable accomplishment to teachers. I must look after Grace, she is 
romping.
I 
didn't come to chaperone a governess, though she is young and pretty. What 
odd people these Yankees are. I'm afraid Laurie will be quite spoiled among 
them.
I forgot that English people rather turn up their noses at governesses and 
don't treat them as we do,
Tutors also have rather a hard time of it there, as I know to my sorrow. 
There's no place like America for us workers, Miss Margaret.
I'm glad I live in it then. I don't like my work, but I get a good deal of 
satisfaction out of it after all, so I won't complain. I only wished I liked 
teaching as you do.
I think you would if you had Laurie for a pupil. I shall be very sorry to lose 
him next year,
Going to college, I suppose?
s lips asked the question,  but her eyes 
added, "And what becomes of you?" 
"Yes, it
 

 exclaimed Meg. 
 
she added sorrowfully. 
 said Mr. Brooke rather bitterly as he absently put the dead rose 
in the hole he had made and covered it up, like a little grave. 
129
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
 said Meg heartily. 

 began Mr. Brooke, looking cheerful 
again, but before he could finish his speech, Ned, mounted on the old horse, 
came lumbering up to display his equestrian skill before the young ladies, 
and there was no more quiet that day. 

t you love to ride?" asked Grace of Amy, as they stood resting after a 
race round the field with the others, led by Ned. 
"I dote upon it. My sister, Meg, used to ride when Papa was rich, but we 
don
 added Amy, laughing. 

 asked Grace curiously. 

ve only got an 
old sidesaddle and no horse. Out in our garden is an apple tree that has a 
nice low branch, so Jo put the saddle on it, fixed some reins on the part that 
turns up,  and we bounce away on Ellen Tree whenever we like." 
"How funny!" laughed Grace. "I have a pony at home, and ride nearly every 
day in the park with Fred and Kate. It
 

d rather go to 
Rome than the row," said Amy, who had not the remotest idea what the Row 
was and wouldn
I'm afraid you are tired. Can I do anything for you?
Talk to me, please. It's dull, sitting by myself,
What do you like to talk about?
Well, I like to hear about cricket and boating and hunting,
t know anything about them,  thought 
Beth, and forgetting the boy
I never saw any hunting, but I suppose you know all about 
it.
I did once, but I can never hunt again, for I got hurt leaping a confounded 
five-barred gate, so there are no more horses and hounds for me,
Your deer are much prettier than our ugly buffaloes,
 
books in which Jo delighted. 
Buffaloes proved soothing and satisfactory, and in her eagerness to amuse 
another, Beth forgot herself, and was quite unconscious of her sisters
Bless her heart! She pities him, so she is good to him,
I always said she was a little saint,
I haven't heard Frank laugh so much for ever so long,
My sister Beth is a very fastidious girl, when she likes to be,
s success. She meant `facinating
t know 
the exact meaning of either word,  fastidious sounded well and made a good 
impression. 
An impromptu circus, fox and geese, and an amicable game of croquet 
finished the afternoon. At sunset the tent was struck,  hampers packed, 
wickets pulled up, boats loaded, and the whole party floated down the river, 
singing at the tops of their voices. Ned, getting sentimental, warbled a 
serenade with the pensive refrain... 
 Alone, alone, ah! Woe, alone,  
and at the lines... 
131
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 We each are young, we each have a heart,  Oh, why should we stand thus 
coldly apart? 
he looked at Meg with such a lackadiasical expression that she laughed 
outright and spoiled his song. 
"How can you be so cruel to me?" he whispered, under cover of a lively 
chorus. "You
 

t mean to, but you looked so funny I really couldn
 replied 
Meg, passing over the first part of his reproach,  for it was quite true that 
she had shunned him, remembering the Moffat party and the talk after it. 
Ned was offended and turned to Sallie for consolation, saying to her rather 
pettishly, 
t a bit of flirt in that girl,  is there?" 
"Not a particle, but she
 returned Sallie, defending her friend even 
while confessing her shortcomings. 

s not a stricken deer anyway," said Ned, trying to be witty, and 
succeeding as well as very young gentlemen usually do. 
On the lawn where it had gathered, the little party separated with cordial 
good nights and good-bys, for the Vaughns were going to Canada. As the 
four sisters went home through the garden, Miss Kate looked after them, 
saying, without the patronizing tone in her voice, "In spite of their 
demonstrative manners, American girls are very nice when one knows 
them." 
"I quite agree with you," said Mr. Brooke. 
132
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER THIRTEEN 
Laurie lay luxuriously swinging to and fro in his hammock one warm 
September afternoon, wondering what his neighbors were about, but too 
lazy to go and find out. He was in one of his moods, for the day had been 
both unprofitable and unsatisfactory,  and he was wishing he could live it 
over again. The hot weather made him indolent, and he had shirked his 
studies, tried Mr. Brooke
What in the world are those girls about now?
Well, that's cool,
to have a picnic and never ask 
me! They can't be going in the boat, for they haven't got the key. Perhaps 
they forgot it. I'll take it to them,  and see what's going on.
Here's a landscape!
s face as he 
watched them, feeling that he ought to go away because uninvited, yet 
lingering because home seemed very lonely and this quiet party in the woods 
most attractive to his restless spirit. He stood so still that a squirrel, busy 
with it
May I come in, please? Or shall I be a bother?
Of course you may. We should have asked you before,  only we thought you 
wouldn't care for such a girl's game as this.
I always like your games, but if Meg doesn't want me, I'll go away.
I've no objection, if you do something. It's against the rules to be idle here,
Much obliged. I'll do anything if you'll let me stop a bit,  for it's as dull as 
the Desert of Sahara down there. Shall I sew,  read, cone, draw, or do all at 
once? Bring on your bears. I'm ready.
Finish this story while I set my heel,
Yes'm.
. 
The story was not a long one, and when it was finished, he ventured to ask a 
few questions as a reward of merit. 
"Please, ma
 

 asked Meg of her sisters. 
134
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
ll laugh," said Amy warningly. 
"Who cares?" said Jo. 
"I guess he
 added Beth. 

t laugh. Tell away, Jo, and don
 

s 
Progress, and we have been going on with it in earnest, all winter and 
summer." 
"Yes, I know," said Laurie, nodding wisely. 
"Who told you?" demanded Jo. 
"Spirits." 
"No, I did. I wanted to amuse him one night when you were all away, and he 
was rather dismal. He did like it, so don
 said Beth meekly. 

t keep a secret. Never mind, it saves trouble now." 
"Go on, please," said Laurie, as Jo became absorbed in her work, looking a 
trifle displeased. 
"Oh, didn
t dawdle." 
"Yes, I should think so," and Laurie thought regretfully of his own idle days. 
"Mother likes to have us out-of-doors as much as possible, so we bring our 
work here and have nice times. For the fun of it we bring our things in these 
bags, wear the old hats, use poles to climb the hill, and play pilgrims, as we 
used to do years ago. We call this hill the Delectable Mountain, for we can 
look far away and see the country where we hope to live some time." 
Jo pointed, and Laurie sat up to examine, for through an opening in the 
wood one could look cross the wide, blue river,  the meadows on the other 
side, far over the outskirts of the great city, to the green hills that rose to 
meet the sky. The sun was low, and the heavens glowed with the splendor of 
an autumn sunset. Gold and purple clouds lay on the hilltops,  and rising 
high into the ruddy light were silvery white peaks that shone like the airy 
spires of some Celestial City. 
135
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "How beautiful that is!" said Laurie softly, for he was quick to see and feel 
beauty of any kind. 
"It
 replied Amy, wishing she could paint it. 

 said Beth musingly. 

 answered Meg with her sweetest voice. 

 

ll get there, Beth, sooner or later, no fear of that," said Jo. "I
 

ll have me for company, if that
ll 
say a good word for me,  won
 
Something in the boy's face troubled his little friend, but she said cheerfully, 
with her quiet eyes on the changing clouds,  
t believe there are 
any locks on that door or any guards at the gate. I always imagine it is as it 
is in the picture, where the shining ones stretch out their hands to welcome 
poor Christian as he comes up from the river. 
"Wouldn
 said Jo, after a little pause. 

ve made such quantities it would be hard to choose which I
 said 
Laurie, lying flat and throwing cones at the squirrel who had betrayed him. 

d have to take your favorite one. What is it?" asked Meg. 
"If I tell mine, will you tell yours?" 
"Yes, if the girls will too." 
"We will. Now, Laurie." 
136
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "After I
d like to settle in 
Germany and have just as much music as I choose. I
m never to be 
bothered about money or business, but just enjoy myself and live for what I 
like. That
s yours, Meg?" 
Margaret seemed to find it a little hard to tell hers, and waved a brake before 
her face, as if to disperse imaginary gnats,  while she said slowly, "I should 
like a lovely house, full of all sorts of luxurious things--nice food, pretty 
clothes, handsome furniture, pleasant people, and heaps of money. I am to 
be mistress of it, and manage it as I like, with plenty of servants,  so I never 
need work a bit. How I should enjoy it! For I wouldn
 

t you have a master for your castle in the air?" asked Laurie slyly. 
"I said `pleasant people
 And Meg carefully tied up her shoe as 
she spoke, so that no one saw her face. 

t you say you
t be perfect without," 
said blunt Jo, who had no tender fancies yet,  and rather scorned romance, 
except in books. 
"You
 answered 
Meg petulantly. 

t I though? I
d write out of a magic inkstand,  so that my works 
should be as famous as Laurie
t be 
forgotten after I
t know what, but I
 

 said Beth contentedly. 

t you wish for anything else?" asked Laurie. "Since I had my little 
piano, I am perfectly satisfied. I only wish we may all keep well and be 
together, nothing else." 
137
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "I have ever so many wishes, but the pet one is to be an artist, and go to 
Rome, and do fine pictures, and be the best artist in the whole world," was 
Amy
We're an ambitious set, aren't we? Every one of us, but Beth, wants to be 
rich and famous, and gorgeous in every respect. I do wonder if any of us will 
ever get our wishes,
I've got the key to my castle in the air, but whether I can unlock the door 
remains to be seen,
I've got the key to mine, but I'm not allowed to try it. Hang college!
Here's mine!
I haven't got any,
Yes, you have,
Where?
In your face.
Nonsense, that's of no use.
Wait and see if it doesn't bring you something 
worth having,
If we are all alive ten years hence, let's meet, and see how many of us have 
got our wishes, or how much nearer we are then than now,
Bless me! How old I shall be, twenty-seven!
You and I will be twenty-six, Teddy, Beth twenty-four, and Amy twenty-two. 
What a venerable party!
I hope I shall have done something to be proud of by that time, but I'm 
such a lazy dog, I'm afraid I shall dawdle, Jo.
You need a motive, Mother says, and when you get it, she is sure you'll 
work splendidly.
Is she? By Jupiter, I will, if I only get the chance!
I ought to be satisfied to please Grandfather, and I do 
try, but it's working against the grain,  you see, and comes hard. He wants 
me to be an India merchant, as he was, and I'd rather be shot. I hate tea 
and sild and spices, and every sort of rubbish his old ships bring, and I 
don't care how soon they go to the bottom when I own them. Going to college 
ought to satisfy him, for if I give him four years he ought to let me off from 
the business. But he's set, and I've got to do just as he did,  unless I break 
away and please myself, as my father did. If there was anyone left to stay 
with the old gentleman, I'd do it tomorrow.
s hatred of subjection, a young man
I advise you to sail away in one of your ships, and never come home again 
till you have tried your own way,
s Wrongs
That's not right, Jo. You mustn't talk in that way, and Laurie mustn't take 
your bad advice. You should do just what your grandfather wishes, my dear 
boy,
Do your best at college, and 
when he sees that you try to please him,  I'm sure he won't be hard on you 
or unjust to you. As you say, there is no one else to stay with and love him, 
and you'd never forgive yourself if you left him without his permission. Don't 
be dismal or fret, but do your duty and you'll get your reward, as good Mr. 
Brooke has, by being respected and loved.
What do you know about him?
Only what your grandpa told us about him, how he took good care of his 
own mother till she died, and wouldn't go abroad as tutor to some nice 
person because he wouldn't leave her. And how he provides now for an old 
woman who nursed his mother, and never tells anyone, but is just as 
generous and patient and good as he can be.
So he is, dear old fellow!
It's like Grandpa to find out all about 
him without letting him know, and to tell all his goodness to others, so that 
139
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 they might like him. Brooke couldn't understand why your mother was so 
kind to him,  asking him over with me and treating him in her beautiful 
friendly way. He thought she was just perfect, and talked about it for days 
and days, and went on about you all in flaming style. If ever I do get my 
wish, you see what I'll do for Booke.
Begin to do something now by not plaguing his life out,
How do you know I do, Miss?
I can always tell by his face when he goes 
away. If you have been good, he looks satisfied and walks briskly. If you 
have plagued him, he's sober and walks slowly, as if he wanted to go back 
and do his work better.
Well, I like that? So you keep an account of my good and bad marks in 
Brooke's face, do you? I see him bow and smile as he passes your window, 
but I didn't know you'd got up a telegraph.
We haven't. Don't be angry, and oh, don't tell him I said anything! It was 
only to show that I cared how you get on, and what is said here is said in 
confidence, you know,
I don't tell tales,
 air, as Jo called 
a certain expression which he occasionally wore. "Only if Brooke is going to 
be a thermometer, I must mind and have fair weather for him to report." 
"Please don
t meant to preach or tell tales or be silly. I 
only thought Jo was encouraging you in a feeling which you
 And Meg offered her hand 
with a gesture both affectionate and timid. 
Ashamed of his momentary pique, Laurie squeezed the kind little hand, and 
said frankly, 
m the one to be forgiven. I
t mind if I 
am grumpy sometimes. I thank you all the same." 
Bent on showing that he was not offended, he made himself as agreeable as 
possible, wound cotton for Meg, recited poetry to please Jo, shook down 
cones for Beth, and helped Amy with her ferns, proving himself a fit person 
to belong to the `Busy Bee Society
, and they would just have time to get 
home to supper. 
"May I come again?" asked Laurie. 
"Yes, if your are good, and love your book, as the boys in the primer are told 
to do," said Meg, smiling. 
"i
 

ll teach you to knit as the Scotchmen do. There
 added Jo, waving hers like a big blue worsted 
banner as they parted at the gate. 
That night, when Beth played to Mr. Laurence in the twilight,  Laurie, 
standing in the shadow of the curtain, listened to the little David, whose 
simple music always quieted his moody spirit,  and watched the old man, 
who sat with his gray head on his hand,  thinking tender thoughts of the 
dead child he had loved so much. Remembering the conversation of the 
afternoon, the boy said to himself, with the resolve to make the sacrifice 
cheerfully, 
ll let my castle go, and stay with the dear old gentleman while 
he needs me, for I am all he has." 
141
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER FOURTEEN 
Jo was very busy in the garret, for the October days began to grow chilly, 
and the afternoons were short. For two or three hours the sun lay warmly in 
the high window, showing Jo seated on the old sofa, writing busily, with her 
papers spread out upon a trunk before her, while Scrabble, the pet rat, 
promenaded the beams overhead, accompanied by his oldest son, a fine 
young fellow, who was evidently very proud of his whiskers. Quite absorbed 
in her work, Jo scribbled away till the last page was filled, when she signed 
her name with a flourish and threw down her pen, exclaiming... 
"There, I
t suit I shall have to wait till I can do 
better." 
Lying back on the sofa, she read the manuscript carefully through, making 
dashes here and there, and putting in many exclamation points, which 
looked like little balloons. Then she tied it up with a smart red ribbon, and 
sat a minute looking at it with a sober, wistful expression, which plainly 
showed how ernest her work had been. Jo
s sign, among others, which adorned the entrance, and 
after staring a moment at the pair of artificial jaws which slowly opened and 
shut to draw attention to a fine set of teeth, the young gentleman put on his 
coat, took his hat,  and went down to post himself in the opposite doorway, 
saying with a smile and a shiver, "It
ll need someone to help her home." 
In ten minutes Jo came running downstairs with a very red face and the 
general appearance of a person who had just passed through a trying ordeal 
of some sort. When she saw the young gentleman she looked anything but 
pleased, and passed him with a nod. But he followed, asking with an air of 
sympathy, "Did you have a bad time?" 
"Not very." 
"You got through quickly." 
"Yes, thank goodness!" 
"Why did you go alone?" 
"Didn
 

re the oddest fellow I ever saw. How many did you have out?" 
Jo looked at her friend as if she did not understand him, then began to 
laugh as if mightily amused at something. 
"There are two which I want to have come out, but I must wait a week." 
"What are you laughing at? You are up to some mischief, Jo," said Laurie, 
looking mystified. 
"So are you. What were you doing, sir, up in that billiard saloon?" 
"Begging your pardon, ma
t a billiard saloon, but a gymnasium, 
and I was taking a lesson in fencing." 
"I
 

 

ll make a fine thing of the fencing scene." 
"Laurie burst out with a hearty boy
I'll teach you whether we play HAMLET or not. It's grand fun and will 
straighten you up capitally. But I don't believe that was your only reason for 
saying `I'm glad' in that decided way, was it now?
No, I was glad that you were not in the saloon, because I hope you never go 
to such places. Do you?
Not often.
I wish you wouldn't.
It's no harm, Jo. I have billiards at home, but it's no fun unless you have 
good players, so, as I'm fond of it, I come sometimes and have a game with 
Ned Moffat or some of the other fellows.
Oh, dear, I'm so sorry, for you'll get to liking it better and better, and will 
waste time and money, and grow like those dreadful boys. I did hope you'd 
stay respectable and be a satisfaction to your friends,
Can't a fellow take a little innocent amusement now and then without 
losing his respectability?
That depends upon how and where he takes it. I don't like Ned and his set, 
and wish you'd keep out of it. Mother won't let us have him at our house, 
though he wants to come. And if you grow like him she won't be willing to 
have us frolic together as we do now.
Won't she?
No, she can't bear fashionable young men, and she'd shut us all up in 
bandboxes rather than have us associate with them.
Well, she needn't get out her bandboxes yet. I'm not a fashionable party 
and don't mean to be, but I do like harmless larks now and then, don't 
you?
Yes, nobody minds them, so lark away, but don't get wild,  will you? Or 
there will be an end of all our good times.
I'll be a double distilled saint.
I can't bear saints. Just be a simple, honest, respectable boy, and we'll 
never desert you. I don't know what I should do if you acted like Mr. King's 
son. He had plenty of money, but didn't know how to spend it, and got tipsy 
and gambled, and ran away, and forged his father's name, I believe, and was 
altogether horrid.
You think I'm likely to do the same? Much obliged.
No, I don't--oh, dear, no!--but I hear people talking about money being such 
a temptation, and I sometimes wish you were poor. I shouldn't worry then.
Do you worry about me, Jo?
A little, when you look moody and discontented, as you sometimes do, for 
you've got such a strong will, if you once get started wrong, I'm afraid it 
would be hard to stop you.
Are you going to deliver lectures all the way home?
Of course not. Why?
Because if you are, I'll take a bus. If you're not, I'd like to walk with you and 
tell you something very interesting.
I won't preach any more, and I'd like to hear the news immensely.
Very well, then, come on. It's a secret, and if I tell you,  you must tell me 
yours.
I haven't got any,
You know you have--you can't hide anything, so up and fess,  or I won't 
tell,
Is your secret a nice one?
Oh, isn't it! All about people you know, and such fun! You ought to hear it, 
and I've been aching to tell it this long time. Come, you begin.
You'll not say anything about it at home, will you?
Not a word.
And you won't tease me in private?
I never tease.
Yes, you do. You get everything you want out of people. I don't know how 
you do it, but you are a born wheedler.
Thank you. Fire away.
Well, I've left two stories with a newspaperman, and he's to give his answer 
next week,
s ear. 
"Hurrah for Miss March, the celebrated American authoress!" cried Laurie, 
throwing up his hat and catching it again, to the great delight of two ducks, 
four cats, five hens, and half a dozen Irish children, for they were out of the 
city now. "Hush! It won
t rest till 
I had tried, and I said nothing about it because I didn
 

t fail. Why, Jo, your stories are works of Shakespeare compared to 
half the rubbish that is published every day. Won
t we feel proud of our authoress?" 
Jo
s 
praise is always sweeter than a dozen newspaper puffs. 
"Where
ll never believe you again," she 
said, trying to extinguish the brilliant hopes that blazed up at a word of 
encouragement. 
"I may get into a scrape for telling, but I didn
ve told you any plummy bit of news I get. I 
know where Meg
 

It's quite enough for the present, as you'll agree when I tell you where it is.
Tell, then.
s ear, which produced a 
comical change. She stood and stared at him for a minute, looking both 
surprised and displeased, then walked on,  saying sharply, "How do you 
know?" 
"Saw it." 
"Where?
Pocket.
All this time?
Yes, isn't that romantic?
No, it's horrid.
Don't you like it?
Of course I don't. It's ridiculous, it won't be allowed. My patience! What 
would Meg say?
You are not to tell anyone. Mind that.
I didn't promise.
That was understood, and I trusted you.
Well, I won't for the present, anyway, but I'm disgusted, and wish you 
hadn't told me.
I thought you'd be pleased.
At the idea of anybody coming to take Meg away? No, thank you.
You'll feel better about it when somebody comes to take you away.
I'd like to see anyone try it,
So should I!
I don't think secrets agree with me, I feel rumpled up in my mind since you 
told me that,
Race down this hill with me, and you'll be all right,
I wish I was a horse, then I could run for miles in this splendid air, and not 
lose my breath. It was capital, but see what a guy it's made me. Go, pick up 
my things, like a cherub,  as you are,
What in the world are you doing here?
Getting leaves,
And hairpins,
s lap. "They 
grow on this road, Meg, so do combs and brown straw hats." 
"You have been running, Jo. How could you? When will you stop such 
romping ways?" said Meg reprovingly, as she settled her cuffs and smoothed 
her hair, with which the wind had taken liberties. 
"Never till I
t try to make me 
grow up before my time, Meg. It
 
As she spoke, Jo bent over the leaves to hide the trembling of her lips, for 
lately she had felt that Margaret was fast getting to be a woman, and 
Laurie's secret made her dread the separation which must surely come some 
time and now seemed very near. He saw the trouble in her face and drew 
Meg's attention from it by asking quickly, 
 

, and Sallie has been telling me all about Belle Moffat
 

 said Laurie. 

m afraid I do." 
"I
 muttered Jo, tying on her hat with a jerk. 

 asked Meg, looking surprised. 

 said Jo, frowning at Laurie, who was mutely warning her to mind 
what she said. 

 anyone," observed Meg, walking on with great 
dignity while the others followed, laughing, whispering, skipping stones, and 
148
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 `behaving like children
 till the girls declared they had both lost their 
wits. On the second Saturday after Jo got out of the window, Meg,  as she 
sat sewing at her window, was scandalized by the sight of Laurie chasing Jo 
all over the garden and finally capturing her in Amy
What shall we do with that girl? She never will behave like a young lady,
I hope she won't. She is so funny and dear as she is,
s having secrets with anyone 
but her. 
"It
 added Amy, who 
sat making some new frills for herself, with her curls tied up in a very 
becoming way., two agreeable things that made her feel unusually elegant 
and ladylike. 
In a few minutes Jo bounced in, laid herself on the sofa,  and affected to 
read. 

 asked Meg, with condescension. 

t amount to much, I guess," returned Jo, carefully 
keeping the name of the paper out of sight. 
"You
 said Amy in her most grown-up tone. 

s the name?" asked Beth, wondering why Jo kept her face behind the 
sheet. 
"The Rival Painters." 
"That sounds well. Read it," said Meg. 
149
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 With a loud "Hem!" and a long breath, Jo began to read very fast. The girls 
listened with interest, for the tale was romantic,  and somewhat pathetic, as 
most of the characters died in the end. "I like that about the splendid 
picture," was Amy
I prefer the lovering part. Viola and Angelo are two of our favorite names, 
isn't that queer?
Who wrote it?
s face. 
The reader suddenly sat up, cast away the paper, displaying a flushed 
countenance, and with a funny mixture of solemnity and excitement replied 
in a loud voice, "Your sister." 
"You?" cried Meg, dropping her work. 
"It
 said Amy critically. 

 And Beth ran to hug her 
sister and exult over this splendid success. 
Dear me, how delighted they all were, to be sure! How Meg wouldn't believe 
it till she saw the words. 
 actually printed in the 
paper. How graciously Amy critisized the artistic parts of the story, and 
offered hints for a sequel, which unfortunately couldn't be carried out, as 
the hero and heroine were dead. How Beth got excited, and skipped and 
sang with joy. How Hannah came in to exclaim, 
 
in great astonishment at `that Jo's doin's'. How proud Mrs. March was when 
she knew it. How Jo laughed, with tears in her eyes, as she declared she 
might as well be a peacock and done with it. and how th `Spread Eagle' 
might be said to flap his wings triumphantly over the House of March, as 
the paper passed from hand to hand. 

 
 
 
 
t Laurie laugh?" cried the family, all in one breath as 
they clustered about Jo, for these foolish, affectionate people mad a jubilee 
of every little household joy. 
"Stop jabbering, girls, and I
 said Jo, wondering if Miss 
Burney felt any grander over her Evilina than she did over her `Rival 
Painters'. Having told how she disposed of her tales, Jo added, 
t pay 
beginners, only let them print in his paper, and noticed the stories. It was 
150
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 good practice, he said, and when the beginners improved, anyone would 
pay. So I let him have the two stories, and today this was sent to me, and 
Laurie caught me with it and insisted on seeing it, so I let him. And he said 
it was good, and I shall write more, and he
 
Jo's breath gave out here, and wrapping her head in the paper, she bedewed 
her little story with a few natural tears,  for to be independent and earn the 
praise of those she loved were the dearest wishes of her heart, and this 
seemed to be the first step toward that happy end. 
151
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER FIFTEEN 

 said 
Margaret, standing at the window one dull afternoon, looking out at the 
frostbitten garden. 

s the reason I was born in it," observed Jo pensively,  quite 
unconscious of the blot on her nose. 
"If something very pleasant should happen now, we should think it a 
delightful month," said Beth, who took a hopeful view of everything, even 
November. 
"I dare say, but nothing pleasant ever does happen in this family," said Meg, 
who was out of sorts. "We go grubbing along day after day, without a bit of 
change, and very little fun. We might as well be in a treadmill." 
"My patience, how blue we are!" cried Jo. "I don
t I wish I could manage things for you as I do for my 
heroines! You
d have some 
rich relation leave you a fortune unexpectedly. Then you
 

t have fortunes left them in that style nowadays,  men have to 
work and women marry for money. It
 said Meg 
bitterly. 

t," said Amy, who sat in a corner making mud pies, as Hannah 
called her little clay models of birds, fruit, and faces. 
"Can
m afraid I haven
m 
grateful for your good intentions. 
Meg sighed, and turned to the frostbitten garden again. Jo groaned and 
leaned both elbows on the table in a despondent attitude,  but Amy spatted 
away energetically, and Beth, who sat at the other window, said, smiling, 
"Two pleasant things are going to happen right away. Marmee is coming 
down the street, and Laurie is tramping through the garden as if he had 
something nice to tell." 
152
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 In they both came, Mrs. March with her usual question, "Any letter from 
Father, girls?" and Laurie to say in his persuasive way, "Won
ve been working away at mathematics till my head is in a 
muddle, and I
s a dull day, but 
the air isn
m going to take Brooke home, so it will be gay inside, 
if it isn
t you?" 
"Of course we will." 
"Much obliged, but I
 And Meg whisked out her workbasket,  for she 
had agreed with her mother that it was best, for her at least,  not to drive 
too often with the young gentleman. 

 cried Amy, running away to wash her 
hands. 

 asked Laurie, leaning over Mrs. 
March's chair with the affectionate look and tone he always gave her. 
 
ll be so kind,  dear. It
t been. Father is as regular as the 
sun, but there
 
A sharp ring interrupted her, and a minute after Hannah came in with a 
letter. 

s one of them horrid telegraph things, mum," she said,  handling it as if 
she was afraid it would explode and do some damage. 
At the word `telegraph
I shall go 
at once, but it may be too late. Oh,  children, children, help me to bear it!
The Lord keep the dear man! I won't waste no time a-cryin',  but git your 
things ready right away, mum,
She's right, there's no time for tears now. Be calm, girls,  and let me think.
Where's Laurie?' she asked presently, when she had collected her thoughts 
and decided on the first duties to be done. 

am. Oh, let me do something!" cried the boy, hurrying from the 
next room whither he had withdrawn, feeling that their first sorrow was too 
sacred for even his friendly eyes to see. 
"Send a telegram saying I will come at once. The next train goes early in the 
morning. I
 

 he said, 
looking ready to fly to the ends of the earth. 

s. Jo, give me that pen and paper." 
Tearing off the blank side of one of her newly copied pages,  Jo drew the 
table before her mother, well knowing that money for the long, sad journey 
must be borrowed, and feeling as if she could do anything to add to a little 
to the sum for her father. 
"Now go, dear, but don
 
Mrs. March's warning was evidently thrown away, for five minutes later 
Laurie tore by the window on his own fleet horse, riding as if for his life. 

t come. On the way get 
these things. I
ll be needed and I must go prepared 
for nursing. Hospital stores are not always good. Beth, go and ask Mr. 
Laurence for a couple of bottles of old wine. I
m half 
bewildered." 
Writing, thinking, and directing all at once might well bewilder the poor 
lady, and Meg begged her to sit quietly in her room for a little while, and let 
them work. Everyone scattered like leaves before a gust of wind, and the 
quiet, happy household was broken up as suddenly as if the paper had been 
an evil spell. 
Mr. Laurence came hurrying back with Beth, bringing every comfort the 
kind old gentleman could think of for the invalid, and friendliest promises of 
protection for the girls during the mother
t offer, from his own dressing gown to 
himself as escort. But the last was impossible. Mrs. March would not hear of 
the old gentleman
d be back directly. No one had time to think of him again 
till, as Meg ran through the entry, with a pair of rubbers in one hand and a 
cup of tea in the other, she came suddenly upon Mr. Brooke. 
"I
 he said, in the kind, quiet tone 
which sounded very pleasantly to her perturbed spirit. 
 
Down dropped the rubbers, and the tea was very near following,  as Meg put 
out her hand, with a face so full of gratitude that Mr. Brooke would have felt 
repaid for a much greater sacrifice than the trifling one of time and comfort 
which he was about to take. 

m sure, and it will be such a 
relief to know that she has someone to take care of her. Thank you very, 
very much!" 
Meg spoke earnestly, and forgot herself entirely till something in the brown 
eyes looking down at her made her remember the cooling tea, and lead the 
way into the parlor, saying she would call her mother. 
Everything was arranged by the time Laurie returned with a note from Aunt 
March, enclosing the desired sum, and a few lines repeating what she had 
often said before, that she had always told them it was absurd for March to 
155
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 go into the army, always predicted that no good would come of it, and she 
hoped they would take her advice the next time. Mrs. March put the note in 
the fire, the money in her purse, and went on with her preparations, with 
her lips folded tightly in a way which Jo would have understood if she had 
been there. 
The short afternoon wore away. All other errands were done,  and Meg and 
her mother busy at some necessary needlework, while Beth and Amy goth 
tea, and Hannah finished her ironing with what she called a `slap and a 
bang
That's my 
contribution toward making Father comfortable and bringing him home!
My dear, where did you get it? Twenty-five dollars! Jo, I hope you haven't 
done anything rash?
No, it's mine honestly. I didn't beg, borrow, or steal it. I earned it, and I 
don't think you'll blame me, for I only sold what was my own.
Your hair! Your beautiful hair!
Oh, Jo, how could you? Your one beauty.
My dear girl, there was no need of this.
She doesn't look like my Jo any 
more, but I love her dearly for it!
It 
doesn't affect the fate of the nation, so don't wail, Beth. It will be good for my 
vanity, I getting too proud of my wig. It will do my brains good to have that 
mop taken off. My head feels deliciously light and cool, and the barber said I 
could soon have a curly crop,  which will be boyish, becoming, and easy to 
keep in order. I'm satisfied, so please take the money and let's have supper.
Tell me all about it, Jo. I am not quite satisfied, but I can't blame you, for I 
know how willingly you sacrificed your vanity, as you call it, to your love. 
But, my dear, it was not necessary, and I'm afraid you will regret it one of 
these days,
No, I won't!
What made you do it?
Well, I was wild to to something for Father,
I hate to borrow as much as Mother does,  and I knew Aunt March 
would croak, she always does, if you ask for a ninepence. Meg gave all her 
quarterly salary toward the rent, and I only got some clothes with mine, so I 
felt wicked, and was bound to have some money, if I sold the nose off my 
face to get it.
You needn't feel wicked, my child! You had no winter things and got the 
simplest with your own hard earnings,
s heart. 
"I hadn
d like to dive into some of the 
rich stores and help myself. In a barber
 

t see how you dared to do it," said Beth in a tone of awe. 
"Oh, he was a little man who looked as if he merely lived to oil his hair. He 
rather stared at first, as if he wasn
t care about mine, it 
wasn
t done right away that I shouldn
d do as much for our Jimmy any day if I had a 
spire of hair worth selling." 
"Who was Jimmy?" asked Amy, who liked to have things explained as they 
went along. 
157
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Her son, she said, who was in the army. How friendly such things make 
strangers feel, don
 

t you feel dreadfully when the first cut came?" asked Meg, with a 
shiver. 
"I took a last look at my hair while the man got his things,  and that was the 
end of it. I never snivel over trifles like that. I will confess, though, I felt 
queer when I saw the dear old hair laid out on the table, and felt only the 
short rough ends of my head. It almost seemed as if I
ll 
give it to you, Marmee, just to remember past glories by, for a crop is so 
comfortable I don
 
Mrs. March folded the wavy chestnut lock, and laid it away with a short gray 
one in her desk. She only said, 
 but something in her 
face made the girls change the subject, and talk as cheerfully as they could 
about Mr. Brooke's kindness, the prospect of a fine day tomorrow, and the 
happy times they would have when Father came home to be nursed. 
No one wanted to go to bed when at ten o'clock Mrs. March put by the last 
finished job, and said, 
 Beth went to the piano and played the 
father's favorite hymn. All began bravely, but broke down one by one till 
Beth was left alone, singing with all her heart, for to her music was always a 
sweet consoler. 

t talk, for we must be up early and shall need all the 
sleep we can get. Good night, my darlings," said Mrs. March, as the hymn 
ended, for no one cared to try another. 
They kissed her quietly, and went to bed as silently as if the dear invalid lay 
in the next room. Beth and Amy soon fell asleep in spite of the great trouble, 
but Meg lay awake, thinking the most serious thoughts she had ever known 
in her short life. Jo lay motionless, and her sister fancied that she was 
asleep, till a stifled sob made her exclaim, as she touched a wet cheek... 
"Jo, dear, what is it? Are you crying about father?" 
"No, not now." 
"What then?" 
"My...My hair!" burst out poor Jo, trying vainly to smother her emotion in 
the pillow. 
158
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 It did not seem at all comical to Meg, who kissed and caressed the afflicted 
heroine in the tenderest manner. 
"I
 protested Jo, with a choke. 
d do it again tomorrow, if I 
could. It
t 
tell anyone, it
 

t sleep, I
 said Meg. 

ll soon drop off." 
"I tried it, but felt wider awake than ever." 
"What did you think of?" 
"Handsome faces--eyes particularly," answered Meg, smiling to herself in the 
dark. "What color do you like best?" 
"Brown, that is, sometimes. Blue are lovely." 
Jo, laughed, and Meg sharply ordered her not to talk, then amiably 
promised to make her hair curl, and fell asleep to dream of living in her 
castle in the air. 
The clocks were striking midnight and the rooms were very still as a figure 
glided quietly from bed to bed, smoothing a coverlet here,  settling a pillow 
there, and pausing to look long and tenderly at each unconscious face, to 
kiss each with lips that mutely blessed, and to pray the fervent prayers 
which only mothers utter. As she lifted the curtain to look out into the 
dreary night, the moon broke suddenly from behind the clouds and shone 
upon her like a bright, benignant face, which seemed to whisper in the 
silence," Be comforted, dear soul! There is always light behind the clouds." 
159
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER SIXTEEN 
In the cold gray dawn the sisters lit their lamp and read their chapter with 
an earnestness never felt before. For now the shadow of a real trouble had 
come, the little books were full of help and comfort, and as they dressed, 
they agreed to say goodbye cheerfully and hopefully, and send their mother 
on her anxious journey unsaddened by tears or complaints from them. 
Everything seemed very strange when they went down, so dim and still 
outside,  so full of light and bustle within. Breakfast at that early hour 
seemed odd, and even Hannah
s cloak and bonnet lay on the sofa, and Mother herself sat 
trying to eat, but looking so pale and worn with sleeplessness and anxiety 
that the girls found it very hard to keep their resolution. Meg
Children, I leave you to Hannah's care and Mr. Laurence's protection. 
Hannah is faithfulness itself, and our good neighbor will guard you as if you 
were his own. I have no fears for you,  yet I am anxious that you should take 
this trouble rightly. Don't grieve and fret when I am gone, or think that you 
can be idle and comfort yourselves by being idle and trying to forget. Go on 
with your work as usual, for work is a blessed solace. Hope and keep busy, 
and whatever happens, remember that you never can be fatherless.
Yes, Mother.
Meg, dear, be prudent, watch over your sisters, consult Hannah, and in any 
perplexity, go to Mr. Laurence. Be patient, Jo,  don't get despondent or do 
rash things, write to me often, and be my brave girl, ready to help and cheer 
all. Beth, comfort yourself with your music, and be faithful to the little home 
duties, and You Amy, help all you can, be obedient, and keep happy safe at 
home.
We will, Mother! We will!
 on the spot. 
"Goodby, my darlings! God bless and keep us all!" whispered Mrs. March, as 
she kissed one dear little face after the other,  and hurried into the carriage. 
As she rolled away, the sun came out, and looking back, she saw it shining 
on the group at the gate like a good omen. They saw it also, and smiled and 
waved their hands, and the last thing she beheld as she turned the corner 
was the four bright faces, and behind them like a bodyguard, old Mr. 
Laurence, faithful Hannah,  and devoted Laurie. 
"How kind everyone is to us!" she said, turning to find fresh proof of it in the 
respectful sympathy of the young man
I don't see how they can help it,
I feel as if there had been an earthquake,
It seems as if half the house was gone,
s table, showing that even in her 
last hurried moments she had thought and worked for them. It was a little 
thing, but it went straight to their hearts, and in spite of their brave 
resolutions, they all broke down and cried bitterly. 
Hannah wisely allowed them to relieve their feelings, and when the shower 
showed signs of clearing up, she came to the rescue, armed with a coffeepot. 
"Now, ny dear young ladies, remember what your ma said, and don
s fall to work and be a 
credit to the family." 
161
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 Coffee was a treat, and Hannah showed great tact in making it that 
morning. No one could resist her persuasive nods, or the fragrant invitation 
issuing from the nose of the coffee pot. They drew up to the table, exchanged 
their handkerchiefs for napkins,  and in ten minutes were all right again. 
"`Hope and keep busy
s the motto for us, so let
t she lecture 
though!" said Jo, as she sipped with returning spirit. 
"I shall go to my Kings, though I
 said Meg, wishing she hadn't made her eyes so red. 

 put in Amy, with 
an important air. 
ll have everything 
nice when you come home," added Beth, getting out her mop and dish tub 
without delay. 
"I think anxiety is very interesting," observed Amy, eating sugar pensively. 
The girls couldn
s face. It was gone, but Beth had 
remembered the little household ceremony, and there she was, nodding 
away at them like a rosyfaced mandarin. 
"That
 said Jo, waving her hat, with a grateful face. 

t strain today. Don
 she added, as they parted. 

t croak. Your hair is becoming,  and it looks 
very boyish and nice," returned Meg, trying not to smile at the curly head, 
which looked comically small on her tall sister
That's my only comfort.
t help laughing and crying over it. How very kind Mr. 
Brooke is, and how fortunate that Mr. Laurence
t know her `moral fit
t last long. Beth is as regular about her tasks as a clock, and never 
forgets what you told her. She grieves about Father, and looks sober except 
when she is at her little piano. Amy minds me nicely, and I take great care of 
her. She does her own hair, and I am teaching her to make buttonholes and 
mend her stockings. She tries very hard, and I know you will be pleased 
with her improvement when you come. Mr. Laurence watches over us like a 
motherly old hen, as Jo says, and Laurie is very kind and neighborly. He 
and Jo keep us merry, for we get pretty blue sometimes, and feel like 
orphans, with you so far away. Hannah is a perfect saint. She does not scold 
at all, and always calls me Miss Margaret, which is quite proper, you know, 
and treats me with respect. We are all well and busy, but we long, day and 
night, to have you back. Give my dearest love to Father, and believe me, ever 
your own... 
MEG 
This note, prettily written on scented paper, was a great contrast to the next, 
which was scribbled on a big sheet of thin foreign paper, ornamented with 
blots and all manner of flourishes and curly-tailed letters. 
My precious Marmee: 
Three cheers for dear Father! Brooke was a trump to telegraph right off, and 
let us know the minute he was better. I rushed up garret when the letter 
came, and tried to thank god for being so good to us, but I could only cry, 
and say, "I
m glad!" Didn
s like living in a nest of 
turtledoves. You
m in love with her sometimes. The children 
are regular archangels, and I-- well, I
t 
speak as I ought, and he marched home, saying he wouldn
t and got mad. It lasted all day. I felt bad 
and wanted you very much. Laurie and I are both so proud, it
d come to it, for I was in the right. He didn
s pardon, and felt all good 
and comfortable again. 
I made a `pome
Head, you 
may think, Heart, you may feel,  But, Hand, you shall work alway!
s tune. I 
can
 now, it makes me cry. Everyone is very 
kind, and we are as happy as we can be without you. Amy wants the rest of 
164
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 the page,  so I must stop. I didn
t she? Didn
t stop. Adieu, I 
send heaps of love to Papa. Your affectionate daughter . .. 
AMY CURTIS MARCH 
Dear Mis March,  
I jes drop a line to say we git on fust rate. The girls is clever and fly round 
right smart. Miss Meg is going to make a proper good housekeeper. She hes 
the liking for it, and gits the hang of things surprisin quick. Jo doos beat all 
for goin ahead,  but she don
k
s like to bring up. She done out a tub of clothes on Monday,  but 
she starched 
t let the girls hev coffee only once a week, accordin to your wish, 
and keep em on plain wholesome vittles. Amy does well without frettin, 
wearin her best clothes and eatin sweet stuff. Mr. Laurie is as full of didoes 
as usual, and turns the house upside down frequent, but he heartens the 
girls, so I let em hev full swing. The old gentleman send heaps of things, and 
165
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 is rather wearin, but means wal, and it aint my place to say nothin. My 
bread is riz, so no more at this time. I send my duty to Mr. March, and hope 
he
t let your husband want anything. Thank God he is mending. 
Your sincere friend and servant,  JAMES LAURENCE 
166
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER SEVENTEEN 
For a week the amount of virtue in the old house would have supplied the 
neighborhood. It was really amazing, for everyone seemed in a heavenly 
frame of mind, and self-denial was all the fashion. Relieved of their first 
anxiety about their father,  girls insensibly relaxed their praiseworthy efforts 
a little,  and began to fall back into old ways. They did not forget their motto, 
but hoping and keeping busy seemed to grow easier,  and after such 
tremendous exertions, they felt that Endeavor deserved a holiday, and gave 
it a good many. 
Jo caught a bad cold through neglect to cover the shorn head enough, and 
was ordered to stay at home till she was better,  for Aunt March didn
 
also, for they were forgetful, and the house seemed like a clock whose 
pendulum was gone a-visiting. When her heart got heavy with longings for 
Mother or fears for Father, she went away into a certain closet, hid her face 
in the folds of a dear old gown, and made her little moan and prayed her 
little prayer quietly by herself. Nobody knew what cheered her up after a 
sober fit, but everyone felt how sweet and helpful Beth was, and fell into a 
way of going to her for comfort or advice in their small affairs. 
All were unconscious that this experience was a test of character, and when 
the first excitement was over, felt that they had done well and deserved 
praise. So they did, but their mistake was in ceasing to do well, and they 
learned this lesson through much anxiety and regret. 
"Meg, I wish you
 said Beth, ten days after Mrs. March's departure. 

m too tired to go this afternoon," re;lied Meg, rocking comfortably as she 
sewed. 
"Can
 asked Beth. 
167
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Too stormy for me with my cold." 
"I thought it was almost well." 
"It
," said Jo, laughing, but looking a little ashamed of her 
inconsistency. 
"Why don
 asked Meg. 

t know what to do for 
it. Mrs. Hummel goes away to work, and Lottchen takes care of it. But it gets 
sicker and sicker, and I think you or Hannah ought to go." 
Beth spoke earnestly, and Meg promised she would go tomorrow. 
"Ask Hannah for some nice little mess, and take it round, Beth,  the air will 
do you good," said Jo, adding apologetically, "I
 

m tired, so I thought maybe some of you would go," 
said Beth. 
"Amy will be in presently, and she will run down for us,  suggested Meg. 
So Beth lay down on the sofa, the others returned to their work,  and the 
Hummels were forgotten. An hour passed. Amy did not come,  Meg went to 
her room to try on a new dress, Jo was absorbed in her story, and Hannah 
was sound asleep before the kitchen fire, when Beth quietly put on her 
hood, filled her basket with odds and ends for the poor children, and went 
out into the chilly air with a heavy head and a grieved look in her patient 
eyes. It was late when she came back, and no one saw her creep upstairs 
and shut herself into her mother
s closet
Christopher Columbus! What's the matter?
You've had the scarlet fever, 
havent't you?
Years ago, when Meg did. Why?' 

ll tell you. Oh, Jo, the baby
 

 
168
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
s. It died in my lap before she got home," cried Beth with a 
sob. 
"My poor dear, how dreadful for you! I ought to have gone," said Jo, taking 
her sister in her arms as she sat down in her mother
It wasn't dreadful, Jo, only so sad! I saw in a minute it was sicker, but 
Lottchen said her mother had gone for a doctor, so I took Baby and let Lotty 
rest. It seemed asleep, but all of a sudden if gave a little cry and trembled, 
and then lay very still. I tried to warm its feet, and Lotty gave it some milk, 
but it didn't stir, and I knew it was dead.
Don't cry, dear! What did you do?
I just sat and held it softly till Mrs. Hummel came with the doctor. He said 
it was dead, and looked at Heinrich and Minna, who have sore throats. 
`Scarlet fever, ma'am. Ought to have called me before, ' he said crossly. Mrs. 
Hummel told him she was poor, and had tried to cure baby herself, but now 
it was too late, and she could only ask him to help the others and trust to 
charity for his pay. He smiled then, and was kinder, but it was very sad, and 
I cried with them till he turned round all of a sudden, and told me to go 
home and take belladonna right away, or I'd have the fever.
No, you won't!
Oh, 
Beth, if you should be sick I never could forgive myself! What shall we do?
Don't be frightened, I guess I shan't have it badly. I looked in Mother's 
book, and saw that it begins with headache, sore throat,  and queer feelings 
like mine, so I did take some belladonna, and I feel better,
If Mother was only at home!
You've been 
over the baby every day for more than a week, and among the others who 
are going to have it, so I'm afraid you are going to have it, Beth. I'll call 
Hannah, she knows all about sickness.
Don't let Amy come. She never had 
it, and I should hate to give it to her. Can't you and Meg have it over again?
I guess not. Don't care if I do. Serve me right, selfish pig,  to let you go, and 
stay writing rubbish myself!
Now I'll tell you what we'll do,
we will have Dr. Bangs, just to take a look at you, dear, 
and see that we start right. Then we'll send Amy off to Aunt March's for a 
spell, to keep her out of harm's way,  and one of you girls can stay at home 
and amuse Beth for a day or two.
I shall stay, of course, I'm oldest,
I shall, because it's my fault she is sick. I told Mother I'd do the errands, 
and I haven't,
Which will you have, Beth? There ain't no need of but one,
Jo, please.
I'll go and tell Amy,
Now be a sensible little woman, and do as they say. No, 
don't cry, but hear what a jolly plan I've got. You go to Aunt March's, and I'll 
come and take you out every day, driving or walking,  and we'll have capital 
times. Won't that be better than moping here?
I don't wish to be sent off as if I was in the way,
Bless your heart, child, it's to keep you well. You don't want to be sick, do 
you?
No, I'm sure I don't, but I dare say I shall be, for I've been with Beth all the 
time.
That's the very reason you ought to go away at once, so that you may 
escape it. Change of air and care will keep you well, I dare say, or if it does 
not entirely, you will have the fever more lightly. I advise you to be off as 
soon as you can, for scarlet fever is no joke, miss.
But it's dull at Aunt March's, and she is so cross,
It won't be dull with me popping; in every day to tell you how Beth is, and 
take you out gallivanting. The old lady likes me, and I'll be as sweet as 
possible to her, so she won't peck at us, whatever we do.
Will you take me out in the trotting wagon with Puck?
On my honor as a gentleman.
And come every single day?
See if I don't/
And bring me back the minute Beth is well?
The identical minute.
And go to the theater, truly?
A dozen theaters, if we may.
Well--I guess I will,
Good girl! Call Meg, and tell her you'll give in,
. 
Meg and Jo came running down to behold the miracle which had been 
wrought, and Amy, feeling very precious and self-sacrificing,  promised to 
go, if the doctor said Beth was going to be ill. 
"How is the little dear?" asked Laurie, for Beth was his especial pet, and he 
felt more anxious about her than he liked to show. 
"She is lying down on Mother
s death 
troubled her, but I dare say she has only got cold. Hannah says she thinks 
so, but she looks worried, and that makes me fidgety," answered Meg. 
171
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "What a trying world it is!" said Jo, rumpling up her hair in a fretful way. 
"No sooner do we get out of one trouble than down comes another. There 
doesn
s gone, so I
 

t make a porcupine of yourself, it isn
 asked 
Laurie, who never had been reconciled to the loss of his friend's one beauty. 

 said Meg. 
t, for Mother can
t be sick long, and Hannah knows 
just what to do, and Mother said we were to mind her, so I suppose we 
must, but it doesn
 

t say. Suppose you ask Grandfather after the doctor has 
been." 
"We will. Jo, go and get Dr. Bangs at once," commanded Meg. "We can
 

m errand boy to this establishment," said Laurie, 
taking up his cap. 
"I
 began Meg. 

ve done my lessons for the day." 
"Do you study in vacation time?" asked Jo. 
"I follow the good example my neighbors set me," was Laurie
I have great hopes for my boy,
He does very well, for a boy,
s somewhat ungracious answer, for 
the subject did not interest her. 
Dr. Bangs came, said Beth had symptoms of the fever, but he thought she 
would have it lightly, though he looked sober over the Hummel story. Amy 
was ordered off at once, and provided with something to ward off danger, 
she departed in great state, with Jo and Laurie as escort. 
Aunt March received them with her usual hospitality. 
172
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "What do you want now?" she asked, looking sharply over her spectacles, 
while the parrot, sitting on the back of her chair,  called out... 
"Go away. No boys allowed here." 
Laurie retired to the window, and Jo told her story. 
"No more than I expected, if you are allowed to go poking about among poor 
folks. Amy can stay and make herself useful if she isn
ve no 
doubt she will be, looks like it now. Don
 Amy was on the point of crying, but Laurie slyly pulled the 
parrot's tail, which caused Polly to utter an astonished croak and call out, 

 in such a funny way, that she laughed instead. 

 asked the old lady gruffly. 

 replied Jo, trying to keep sober. 

t last long, I fancy. March never had any 
stamina," was the cheerful reply. 
"Ha, ha! Never say die, take a pinch of snuff, goodbye, goodbye!" squalled 
Polly, dancing on her perch, and clawing at the old lady
Hold your tongue, you disrespectful old bird! And, Jo, you'd better go at 
once. It isn't proper to be gadding about so late with a rattlepated boy like...
Hold your tongue, you disrespectful old bird!
 boy, who was 
shaking with laughter at the last speech. 
"I don
ll try," thought Amy, as she was left alone 
with Aunt March. 
"Get along, you fright!" screamed Polly, and at that rude speech Amy could 
not restrain a sniff. 
173
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER EIGHTEEN 
Beth did have the fever, and was much sicker than anyone but Hannah and 
the doctor suspected. The girls knew nothing about illness, and Mr. 
Laurence was not allowed to see her, so Hannah had everything her own 
way, and busy Dr. Bangs did his best, but left a good deal to the excellent 
nurse. Meg stayed at home, lest she should infect the Kings, and kept 
house, feeling very anxious and a little guilty when she wrote letters in 
which no mention was made of Beth
t hear of `Mrs. March bein
 
Jo devoted herself to Beth day and night, not a hard task, for Beth was very 
patient, and bore her pain uncomplainingly as long as she could control 
herself. But there came a time when during the fever fits she began to talk 
in a hoarse, broken voice, to play on the coverlet as if on her beloved little 
piano, and try to sing with a throat so swollen that there was no music left, 
a time when she did not know the familiar faces around her, but addressed 
them by wrong names, and called imploringly for her mother. Then Jo grew 
frightened, Meg begged to be allowed to write the truth, and even Hannah 
said she `would think of it, though there was no danger yet
s nature, to feel how deep and tender a 
place she filled in all hearts, and to acknowledge the worth of Beth
s 
side. 
The first of December was a wintry day indeed to them, for a bitter wind 
blew, snow fell fast, and the year seemed getting ready for its death. When 
Dr. Bangs came that morning, he looked long at Beth, held the hot hand in 
both his own for a minute, and laid it gently down, saying, in a low voice to 
Hannah, "If Mrs. March can leave her husband she
 
Hannah nodded without speaking, for her lips twitched nervously,  Meg 
dropped down into a chair as the strength seemed to go out of her limbs at 
the sound of those words, and Jo, standing with a pale face for a minute, 
ran to the parlor, snatched up the telegram, and throwing on her things, 
rushed out into the storm. She was soon back, and while noiselessly taking 
off her cloak, Laurie came in with a letter, saying that Mr. March was 
mending again. Jo read it thankfully, but the heavy weight did not seem 
lifted off her heart, and her face was so full of misery that Laurie asked 
quickly,  
 

ve sent for Mother," said Jo, tugging at her rubber boots with a tragic 
expression. 
"Good for you, Jo! Did you do it on your own responsibility?" asked Laurie, 
as he seated her in the hall chair and took off the rebellious boots, seeing 
how her hands shook. 
175
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "No. The doctor told us to." 
"Oh, Jo, it
 cried Laurie, with a startled face. 

t know us, she doesn
t look like 
my Beth, and there
t find Him." 
As the tears streamed fast down poor Jo
I'm here. 
Hold on tome, Jo, dear!
, and the warm grasp of the 
friendly human hand comforted her sore heart, and seemed to lead her 
nearer to the Divine arm which alone could uphold her in her trouble. 
Laurie longed to say something tender and comfortable, but no fitting words 
came to him, so he stood silent, gently stroking her bent head as her mother 
used to do. It was the best thing he could have done, far more soothing than 
the most eloquent words, for Jo felt the unspoken sympathy, and in the 
silence learned the sweet solace which affection administers to sorrow. Soon 
she dried the tears which had relieved her, and looked up with a grateful 
face. 
"Thank you, Teddy, I
t feel so forlorn,  and will try to 
bear it if it comes." 
"Keep hoping for the best, that will help you, Jo. Soon your mother will be 
here, and then everything will be all right." 
"I
t feel so bad about leaving him. 
Oh, me! It does seem as if all the troubles came in a heap, and I got the 
heaviest part on my shoulders," sighed Jo,  spreading her wet handkerchief 
over her knees to dry. 
"Doesn
 asked Laurie, looking indignant. 

t love Bethy as I do, and she won
t give her up. I can
t!" 
Down went Jo
t help it, and I am glad of it. Presently, as Jo
I don't think she will die. She's so good, and we all love her so 
much, I don't believe God will take her away yet.
The good and dear people always do die,
s words cheered her up in spite of her own doubts and 
fears. 
"Poor girl, you
t like you to be forlorn. Stop a bit. I
 
Laurie went off two stairs at a time, and Jo laid her wearied head down on 
Beth's little brown hood, which no one had thought of moving from the table 
where she left it. It must have possessed some magic, for the submissive 
spirit of its gentle owner seemed to enter into Jo, and when Laurie came 
running down with a glass of wine, she took it with a smile, and said 
bravely, 
 she added, as the wine 
refreshed her body, as the kind words had done her troubled mind. 

ll send my bill, by-and-by, and tonight I
 said Laurie, 
beaming at her with a face of suppressed satisfaction at something. 

 cried Jo, forgetting her woes for a minute in her wonder. 

d come at 
once, and she
t you 
glad I did it?" 
Laurie spoke very fast, and turned red and excited all in a minute, for he 
had kept his plot a secret, for fear of disappointing the girls or harming 
Beth. Jo grew quite white, flew out of her chair, and the moment he stopped 
speaking she electrified him by throwing her arms round his neck, and 
crying out, with a joyful cry, "Oh, Laurie! Oh, Mother! I am so glad!" She did 
not weep again, but laughed hysterically, and trembled and clung to her 
friend as if she was a little bewildered by the sudden news. 
Laurie, though decidedly amazed, behaved with great presence of mind. He 
patted her back soothingly, and finding that she was recovering, followed it 
up by a bashful kiss or two, which brought Jo round at once. Holding on to 
the banisters, she put him gently away, saying breathlessly, "Oh, don
t mean to, it was dreadful of me, but you were such a dear to go and do 
177
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 it in spite of Hannah that I couldn
t give me wine again, it makes me act so." 
"I don
 laughed Laurie, as he settled his tie. 
d never forgive us 
if Beth... Well, if anything happened, you know. So I got grandpa to say it 
was high time we did something,  and off I pelted to the office yesterday, for 
the doctor looked sober,  and Hannah most took my head off when I 
proposed a telegram. I never can bear to be `lorded over
ve only got to bottle up your rapture,  
and keep Beth quiet till that blessed lady gets here." 
"Laurie, you
 

 said Laurie, looking mischievous, a thing 
he had not done for a fortnight. 

ll do it by proxy, when your grandpa comes. Don
ll be up half the night. Bless you, Teddy, bless 
you!" 
Jo had backed into a corner, and as she finished her speech,  she vanished 
precipitately into the kitchen, where she sat down upon a dresser and told 
the assembled cats that she was "happy,  oh, so happy!" while Laurie 
departed, feeling that he had made a rather neat thing of it. 
"That
 said Hannah, with an air of relief, when Jo 
told the good news. 
Meg had a quiet rapture, and then brooded over the letter,  while Jo set the 
sickroom in order, and Hannah `knocked up a couple of pies in case of 
company unexpected
s bird began to chirp 
again,  and a half-blown rose was discovered on Amy
Mother's coming, dear! Mother's coming!
Water!
s foot and fell fast 
asleep, Mr. Laurence marched to and fro in the parlor, feeling that he would 
rather face a rebel battery than Mrs. March
If God spares Beth, I never will complain again,
If god spares Beth, I'll try to love and serve Him all my life,
I wish I had no heart, it aches so,
If life is often as hard as this, I don't see how we ever shall get through it,
s quiet departure for the station. Another hour, still no one 
came,  and anxious fears of delay in the storm, or accidents by the way,  or, 
worst of all, a great grief at Washington, haunted the girls. 
It was past two, when Jo, who stood at the window thinking how dreary the 
world looked in its winding sheet of snow, heard a movement by the bed, 
and turning quickly, saw Meg kneeling before their mother
Beth 
is dead, and Meg is afraid to tell me.
Goodby, my Beth. Goodby!
The fever's turned, she's sleepin' nat'ral, her skin's damp, and she 
breathes easy. Praise be given! Oh, my goodness me!
Yes, my dears, I think the 
little girl will pull through this time. Keep the house quiet, let her sleep, and 
when she wakes,  give her...
If Mother would only come now!
See,
I thought this 
would hardly be ready to lay in Beth's hand tomorrow if she--went away 
from us. But it has blossomed in the night, and now I mean to put it in my 
vase here, so that when the darling wakes, the first thing she sees will be 
the little rose, and Mother's face.
It looks like a fairy world,
Hark!
s voice saying in a joyful whisper,  "Girls, she
s 
come!" 
181
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER NINETEEN 
While these things were happening at home, Amy was having hard times at 
Aunt March
s children, though she didn
s little cares and 
joys, make them feel at home, and can hide wise lessons under pleasant 
plays, giving and receiving friendship in the sweetest way. But Aunt March 
had not this gift, and she worried Amy very much with her rules and orders, 
her prim ways, and long, prosy talks. Finding the child more docile and 
amiable than her sister,  the old lady felt it her duty to try and counteract, 
as far as possible, the bad effects of home freedom and indulgence. So she 
took Amy by the hand, and taught her as she herself had been taught sixty 
years ago, a process which carried dismay to Amy
s eye, and all the furniture had claw legs and much carving, which 
was never dusted to suit. Then Polly had to be fed, the lap dog combed, and 
a dozen trips upstairs and down to get things or deliver orders,  for the old 
lady was very lame and seldom left her big chair. After these tiresome 
labors, she must do her lessons, which was a daily trial of every virtue she 
possessed. Then she was allowed one hour for exercise or play, and didn
, as she called her 
mistress, for many years, and who rather tyrannized over the old lady, who 
could not get along without her. Her real name was Estelle, but Aunt March 
ordered her to change it,  and she obeyed, on condition that she was never 
asked to change her religion. She took a fancy to Mademoiselle, and amused 
her very much with odd stories of her life in France, when Amy sat with her 
while she got up Madam
s chief delight was an Indian cabinet, full of queer drawers, 
little pigeonholes,  and secret places, in which were kept all sorts of 
ornaments,  some precious, some merely curious, all more or less antique. 
To examine and arrange these things gave Amy great satisfaction,  especially 
the jewel cases, in which on velvet cushions reposed the ornaments which 
had adorned a belle forty years ago. There was the garnet set which Aunt 
March wore when she came out, the pearls her father gave her on her 
wedding day, her lover
s big watch, with the red seal so many childish hands had played 
with,  and in a box all by itself lay Aunt March
Which would Mademoiselle choose if she had her will?
I like the diamonds best, but there is no necklace among them,  and I'm 
fond of necklaces, they are so becoming. I should choose this if I might,
I, too, covet that, but not as a necklace. Ah, no! To me it is a rosary, and as 
such I should use it like a good catholic,
Is it meant to use as you use the string of good-smelling wooden beads 
hanging over your glass?
Truly, yes, to pray with. It would be pleasing to the saints if one used so 
fine a rosary as this, instead of wearing it as a vain bijou.
You seem to take a great deal of comfort in your prayers,  Esther, and 
always come down looking quiet and satisfied. I wish I could.
If Mademoiselle was a Catholic, she would find true comfort,  but as that is 
not to be, it would be well if you went apart each day to meditate and pray, 
as did the good mistress whom I served before Madame. She had a little 
chapel, and in it found solacement for much trouble.
Would it be right for me to do so too?
It would be excellent and charming, and I shall gladly arrange the little 
dressing room for you if you like it. Say nothing to Madame, but when she 
sleeps go you and sit alone a while to think good thoughts, and pray the 
dear God preserve your sister.
I wish I knew where all these pretty things would go when Aunt March 
dies,
To you and your sisters. I know it, Madame confides in me. I witnessed her 
will, and it is to be so,
How nice! But I wish she'd let us have them now.  Procrastination is not 
agreeable,
It is too soon yet for the young ladies to wear these things. The first one 
who is affianced will have the pearls, Madame has said it, and I have a fancy 
that the little turquoise ring will be given to you when you go, for Madame 
approves your good behavior and charming manners.
Do you think so? Oh, I'll be a lamb, if I can only have that lovely ring! It's 
ever so much prettier than Kitty Bryant's. I do like Aunt March after all.
s beauty-loving eyes were never tired of looking up at 
the sweet face of the Divine Mother,  while her tender thoughts of her own 
were busy at her heart. On the table she laid her little testament and 
hymnbook, kept a vase always full of the best flowers Laurie brought her, 
and came every day to `sit alone
s help to 
understand and rule herself, but having been taught where to look,  she did 
her best to find the way and walk in it confidingly. But Amy was a young 
pilgrim, and just now her burden seemed very heavy. She tried to forget 
herself, to keep cheerful, and be satisfied with doing right, though no one 
saw or praised her for it. In her first effort at being very, very good, she 
decided to make her will, as Aunt March had done, so that if she did fall ill 
and die, her possessions might be justly and generously divided. It cost her 
185
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 a pang even to think of giving up the little treasures which in her eyes were 
as precious as the old lady
s ring nor see 
his face peeping in at her as she gravely promenaded to and fro, flirting her 
fan and tossing her head, on which she wore a great pink turban,  
contrasting oddly with her blue brocade dress and yellow quilted petticoat. 
She was obliged to walk carefully, for she had on highheeled shoes, and, as 
Laurie told Jo afterward, it was a comical sight to see her mince along in her 
gay suit, with Polly sidilng and bridling just behind her, imitating her as well 
as he could,  and occasionally stopping to laugh or exclaim, "Ain
 
Having with difficulty restrained an explosion of merriment,  lest it should 
offend her majesty, Laurie tapped and was graciously received. 

 said Amy, when she had shown her splendor 
and driven Polly into a corner. 
 she 
continued, removing the pink mountain from her head, while Laurie seated 
himself astride a chair.  
 I couldn
 

s invitation?" asked Laurie, yawning. 
"Yes, out it came, and away ran Polly, frightened to death, and scrambled up 
on Aunt
 as I chased 
the spider." 
186
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "That
 cried the parrot, pecking at Laurie's toes. 

d wring your neck if you were mine, you old torment," cried Laurie, 
shaking his fist at the bird, who put his head on one side and gravely 
croaked, "Allyluyer! Bless your buttons, dear!" 
"Now I
 said Amy, shutting the wardrobe and taking a piece of 
paper out of her pocket. 
t want 
any ill feeling over my tomb." 
Laurie bit his lips, and turning a little from the pensive speaker, read the 
following document, with praiseworthy gravity,  considering the spelling: 
MY LAST WILL AND TESTIMENT 
I, Amy Curtis March, being in my sane mind, go give and bequeethe all my 
earthly property--viz.to wit:--namely 
To my father, my best pictures, sketches, maps, and works of art, including 
frames. Also my $100, to do what he likes with. 
To my mother, all my clothes, except the blue apron with pockets--also my 
likeness, and my medal, with much love. 
To my dear sister Margaret, I give my turkquoise ring (if I get it), also my 
green box with the doves on it, also my; piece of real lace for her neck, and 
my sketch of her as a memorial of her 
. 
To Jo I leave my breastpin, the one mended with sealing wax,  also my 
bronze inkstand--she lost the cover--and my most precious plaster rabbit, 
because I am sorry I burned up her story. 
To Beth (if she lives after me) I give my dolls and the little bureau, my fan, 
my linen collars and my new slippers if she can wear them being thin when 
she gets well. And I herewith also leave her my regret that I ever made fun of 
old Joanna. 
To my friend and neighbor Theodore Laurence I bequeethe my paper 
mashay portfolio, my clay model of a horse though he did say it hadn
. 
And now having disposed of my most valuable property I hope all will be 
satisfied and not blame the dead. I forgive everyone, and trust we may all 
meet when the trump shall sound. Amen. 
To this will and testiment I set my hand and seal on this 20th day of Nov. 
Anni Domino 1861. 
Amy Curtis March 
Witnesses: 
Estelle Valnor,  Theodore Laurence. 
 The last name was written in pencil, and Amy explained that he was to 
rewrite it in ink and seal it up for her properly. 
"What put it into your head? Did anyone tell you about Beth
 asked Laurie soberly, as Amy laid a bit of red tape, with sealing 
wax, a taper, and a standish before him. 
She explained and then asked anxiously, 
 

m sorry I spoke, but as I did, I
 
Laurie was signing and sealing as he spoke, and did not look up till a great 
tear dropped on the paper. Amy's face was full of trouble, but she only said, 

t people put sort of postscripts to their wills, sometimes?" 
"Yes, `codicils
 

 
188
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 Laurie added it, smiling at Amy's last and greatest sacrifice. Then he 
amused her for an hour, and was much interested in all her trials. But when 
he came to go, Amy held him back to whisper with trembling lips, 
 

m afraid there is, but we must hope for the best, so don
 And 
Laurie put his arm about her with a brotherly gesture which was very 
comforting. 
When he had gone, she went to her little chapel, and sitting in the twilight, 
prayed for Beth, with streaming tears and an aching heart, feeling that a 
million turquoise rings would not console her for the loss of her gentle little 
sister. 
189
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER TWENTY 
I don't think I have any words in which to tell the meeting of the mother and 
daughters. Such hours are beautiful to live,  but very hard to describe, so I 
will leave it to the imagination of my readers, merely saying that the house 
was full of genuine happiness, and that Meg's tender hope was realized, for 
when Beth woke from that long, healing sleep, the first objects on which her 
eyes fell were the little rose and Mother's face. Too weak to wonder at 
anything, she only smiled and nestled close in the loving arms about her, 
feeling that the hungry longing was satisfied at last. Then she slept again, 
and the girls waited upon their mother, for she would not unclasp the thin 
hand which clung to hers even in sleep. 
Hannah had `dished up' and astonishing breakfast for the traveler, finding it 
impossible to vent her excitement in any other way, and Meg and Jo fed 
their mother like dutiful young storks, while they listened to her whispered 
account of Father's state, Mr. Brooke's promise to stay and nurse him, the 
delays which the storm occasioned on the homeward journey, and the 
unspeakable comfort Laurie's hopeful face had given her when she arrived, 
worn out with fatigue, anxiety, and cold. 
What a strange yet pleasant day that was. So brilliant and gay without, for 
all the world seemed abroad to welcome the first snow. So quiet and 
reposeful within, for everyone slept, spent with watching, and a Sabbath 
stillness reigned through the house,  while nodding Hannah mounted guard 
at the door. With a blissful sense of burdens lifted off, Meg and Jo closed 
their weary eyes,  and lay at rest, like storm-beaten boats safe at anchor in a 
quiet harbor. Mrs. March would not leave Beth's side, but rested in the big 
chair, waking often to look at, touch, and brood over her child, like a miser 
over some recovered treasure. 
Laurie meanwhile posted off to comfort Amy, and told his story so well that 
Aunt March actually `sniffed' herself, and never once said 
. 
Amy came out so strong on this occasion that I think the good thoughts in 
the little chapel really began to bear fruit. She dried her tears quickly, 
restrained her impatience to see her mother, and never even thought of the 
turquoise ring, when the old lady heartily agreed in Laurie's opinion, that 
she behaved `like a capital little woman'. Even Polly seemed impressed, for 
he called her a good girl, blessed her buttons, and begged her to 
, in his most affable tone. She would very gladly have gone 
out to enjoy the bright wintry weather, but discovering that Laurie was 
190
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 dropping with sleep in spite of manful efforts to conceal the fact, she 
persuaded him to rest on the sofa, while she wrote a note to her mother. She 
was a long time about it, and when she returned, he was stretched out with 
both arms under his head,  sound asleep, while Aunt March had pulled 
down the curtains and sat doing nothing in an unusual fit of benignity. 
After a while, they began to think he was not going to wake up till night, and 
I'm not sure that he would, had he not been effectually roused by Amy's cry 
of joy at sight of her mother. There probably were a good many happy little 
girls in and about the city that day, but it is my private opinion that Amy 
was the happiest of all, when she sat in her mother's lap and told her trials, 
receiving consolation and compensation in the shape of approving smiles 
and fond caresses. They were alone together in the chapel, to which her 
mother did not object when its purpose was explained to her. 

 looking from the dusty rosary to 
the well-worn little book, and the lovely picture with its garland of evergreen. 

 

ve tried to make. The 
woman
s too beautiful for me to draw, but the baby is 
done better, and I love it very much. I like to think He was a little child once,  
for then I don
 
As Amy pointed to the smiling Christ child on his Mother's knee, Mrs. March 
saw something on the lifted hand that made her smile. She said nothing, 
but Amy understood the look, and after a minute's pause, she added 
gravely, 
d like to keep me always. She gave 
that funny guard to keep the turquoise on, as it
d like to wear 
them Mother, can I?" 
"They are very pretty, but I think you
 said Mrs. March, looking at the plump little hand, with 
the band of sky-blue stones on the forefinger,  and the quaint guard formed 
of two tiny golden hands clasped together. 
191
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
ll try not to be vain," said Amy. "I don
s so 
pretty, but I want to wear it as the girl in the story wore her bracelet, to 
remind me of something." 
"Do you mean Aunt March?" asked her mother, laughing. 
"No, to remind me not to be selfish." Amy looked so earnest and sincere 
about it that her mother stopped laughing,  and listened respectfully to the 
little plan. 
"I
, and being 
selfish is the largest one in it, so I
t selfish, and that
t feel so bat about me if I was 
sick, and I don
d like to be loved and missed by 
a great many friends, so I
m apt to 
forget my resolutions, but if I had something always about me to remind me,  
I guess I should do better. May we try this way?" 
"Yes, but I have more faith in the corner of the big closet. Wear your ring, 
dear, and do your best. I think you will prosper,  for the sincere wish to be 
good is half the battle. Now I must go back to Beth. Keep up your heart, 
little daughter, and we will soon have you home again." 
That evening while Meg was writing to her father to report the traveler
s room,  and finding her mother in her 
usual place, stood a minute twisting her fingers in her hair, with a worried 
gesture and an undecided look. 
"What is it, deary?
I want to tell you something, Mother.
About Meg?
How quickly you guessed! Yes, it's about her, and though it's a little thing, 
it fidgets me.
Beth is asleep. Speak low, and tell me all about it. That Moffat hasn't been 
here, I hope?
No. I should have shut the door in his face if he had,
s feet. "Last summer Meg left a pair of 
gloves over at the Laurences
t dare 
say so, she was so young and he so poor. Now, isn
 

 asked Mrs. March, with an anxious look. 

t know anything about love and such nonsense!" cried Jo, 
with a funny mixture of interest and contempt. "In novels, the girls show it 
by starting and blushing, fainting away, growing thin, and acting like fools. 
Now Meg does not do anything of the sort. She eats and drinks and sleeps 
like a sensible creature, she looks straight in my face when I talk about that 
man, and only blushes a little bit when Teddy jokes about lovers. I forbid 
him to do it, but he doesn
 

 
"Who?" cried Jo, staring. 
"Mr. Brooke. I call him `John
 

ll take his part. He
t send him away, but let Meg marry him, if she wants to. Mean thing! 
To go petting Papa and helping you,  just to wheedle you into liking him." 
And Jo pulled her hair again with a wrathful tweak. 
"My dear, don
s request, and was so devoted to poor Father 
that we couldn
s engaging herself so young." 
"Of course not. It would be idiotic! I knew there was mischief brewing. I felt 
it, and now it
 
This odd arrangement made Mrs. March smile, but she said gravely, 
t wish you to say anything to Meg yet. When John 
comes back, and I see them together, I can judge better of her feelings 
toward him." 
193
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "She
s got such a soft heart,  it will melt like butter in the sun if 
anyone looks sentimentlly at her. She read the short reports he sent more 
than she did your letters, and pinched me when I spoke of it, and likes 
brown eyes, and doesn
ll go and fall in 
love, and there
ll go lovering around the house, and we shall have to dodge. Meg 
will be absorbed and no good to me any more. Brooke will scratch up a 
fortune somehow, carry her off,  and make a hole in the family, and I shall 
break my heart, and everything will be abominably uncomfortable. Oh, dear 
me! Why weren
t be any bother." 
Jo leaned her chin on her knees in a disconsolate attitude and shook her 
fist at the reprehensible John. Mrs. March sighed,  and Jo looked up with 
an air of relief. 
"You don
m glad of it. Let
 

 

t you rather have her marry a rich man?" asked Jo, as her mother
Money is a good and useful thing, Jo, and I hope my girls will never feel the 
need of it too bitterly not be tempted by too much. I should like to know that 
John was firmly established in some good business, which gave him an 
income large enough to keep free from debt and make Meg comfortable. I'm 
not ambitious for a splendid fortune, a fashionable position, or a great name 
for my girls. If rank and money come with love and virtue, also,  I should 
accept them gratefully, and enjoy your good fortune, but I know, by 
experience, how much genuine happiness can be had in a plain little house, 
where the daily bread is earned, and some privations give sweetness to the 
few pleasures. I am content to see Meg begin humbly, for if I am not 
194
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 mistaken, she will be rich in the possession of a good man's heart, and that 
is better than a fortune.
I understand, Mother, and quite agree, but I'm disappointed about Meg, for 
I'd planned to have her marry Teddy by-and-by and sit in the lap of luxury 
all her days. Wouldn't it be nice?
He is younger than she, you know,
Only a little, he's old for his age, and tall, and can be quite grown-up in his 
manners if he likes. Then he's rich and generous and good, and loves us all, 
and I say it's a pity my plan is spoiled.
I'm afraid Laurie is hardly grown-up enough for Meg, and altogether too 
much of a weathercock just now for anyone to depend on. Don't make plans, 
Jo, but let time and their own hearts mate your friends. We can't meddle 
safely in such matters, and had better not get `romantic rubbish' as you call 
it, into our heads, lest it spoil our friendship.
Well, I won't, but I hate to see things going all crisscross and getting 
snarled up, when a pull her and a snip there would straighten it out. I wish 
wearing flatirons on our heads would keep us from growing up. But buds 
will be roses, and kittens cats, more's the pity!
What's that about flatirons and cats?
Only one of my stupid speeches. I'm going to bed. Come,  Peggy,
Quite right, and beautifully written. Please add that I send my love to 
John,
Do you call him `John'?
s. 
"Yes, he has been like a son to us, and we are very fond of him," replied Mrs. 
March, returning the look with a keen one. 
"I
 was Meg's answer. 
The kiss her mother gave her was a very tender one, and as she went away, 
Mrs. March said, with a mixture of satisfaction and regret, 
s face was a study next day, for the secret rather weighed upon her, and 
she found it hard not to look mysterious and important. Meg observed it, 
but did not trouble herself to make inquiries, for she had learned that the 
best way to manage Jo was by the law of contraries, so she felt sure of being 
told everything if she did not ask. She was rather surprised, therefore,  
when the silence remained unbroken, and Jo assumed a patronizing air, 
which decidedly aggravated Meg, who in turn assumed an air of dignified 
reserve and devoted herself to her mother. This left Jo to her own devices, 
for Mrs. March had taken her place as nurse,  and bade her rest, exercise, 
and amuse herself after her long confinement. Amy being gone, Laurie was 
her only refuge, and much as she enjoyed his society, she rather dreaded 
him just then, for he was an incorrigible tease, and she feared he would 
coax the secret from her. 
She was quite right, for the mischief-loving lad no sooner suspected a 
mystery than he set himself to find it out, and led Jo a trying life of it. He 
wheedled, bribed, ridiculed, threatened, and scolded; affected indifference, 
that he might surprise the truth from her; declared her knew, then that he 
didn
s confidence, he set his wits to work to devise some proper 
retaliation for the slight. 
Meg meanwhile had apparently forgotten the matter and was absorbed in 
preparations for her father
s 
inquiries she answered that she was quite well, and Jo
She feels it in the air--love, I mean--and she's going very fast. She's got 
most of the symptoms--is twittery and cross,  doesn't eat, lies awake, and 
mopes in corners. I caught her singing that song he gave her, and once she 
said `John', as you do, and then turned as red as a poppy. whatever shall 
we do?
Nothing but wait. Let her alone, be kind and patient, and Father's coming 
will settle everything,
Here's a note to you, Meg, all sealed up. How odd! Teddy never seals mine,
My child, what is it?
It's all a mistake, he didn't send it. Oh, Jo, how could you do it?
Me! I've done nothing! What's she talking about?
s mild eyes kindled with anger as she pulled a crumpled note from her 
pocket and threw it at Jo, saying reproachfully,  "You wrote it, and that bad 
boy helped you. How could you be so rude, so mean, and cruel to us both?" 
Jo hardly heard her, for she and her mother were reading the note, which 
was written in a peculiar hand. 
 "My Dearest Margaret, 
"I can no longer restrain my passion, and must know my fate before I 
return. I dare not tell your parents yet, but I think they would consent if 
they knew that we adored one another. Mr. Laurence will help me to some 
good place, and then, my sweet girl, you will make me happy. I implore you 
to say nothing to your family yet, but to send one word of hope through 
Laurie to,  
"Your devoted John." 
 "Oh, the little villain! That
ll give him a hearty scolding and bring him over to beg 
pardon," cried Jo, burning to execute immediate justice. But her mother 
held her back, saying, with a look she seldom wore... 
"Stop, Jo, you must clear yourself first. You have played so many pranks 
that I am afraid you have had a hand in this." 
"On my word, Mother, I haven
t 
know anything about it, as true as I live!" said Jo, so earnestly that they 
believed her. "If I had taken part in it I
d have known Mr. Brooke 
wouldn
 she added, scornfully tossing down the 
paper. 
197
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
s like his writing," faltered Meg, comparing it with the note in her hand. 
"Oh, Meg, you didn
 cried Mrs. March quickly. 

 and Meg hid her face again, overcome with shame. 

s a scrape! Do let me bring that wicked boy over to explain and be 
lectured. I can
 And Jo made for the door again. 

 commanded Mrs. March, sitting down by Meg, yet keeping 
hold of Jo, lest she should fly off. 

t look as if he knew anything 
about it," began Meg, without looking up. "I was worried at first and meant 
to tell you, then I remembered how you liked Mr. Brooke, so I thought you 
wouldn
m so silly that I liked 
to think no one knew, and while I was deciding what to say, I felt like the 
girls in books, who have such things to do. Forgive me, Mother, I
 

 asked Mrs. March. 
"I only said I was too young to do anything about it yet,  that I didn
 
Mrs. March smiled, as if well pleased, and Jo clapped her hands, 
exclaiming, with a laugh, 
 

s very kind and respectful, but think how 
dreadful for me!" 
Meg leaned against her mother, looking the image of despair,  and Jo 
tramped about the room, calling Laurie names. All of a sudden she stopped, 
caught up the two notes, and after looking at them closely, said decidedly, "I 
don
t tell him my secret." 
"Don
 said Meg warningly. 

 
198
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
ll comfort Meg while you go and get Laurie. I shall sift the 
matter to the bottom, and put a stop to such pranks at once." Away ran Jo, 
and Mrs. March gently told Meg Mr. Brooke
Now, dear, what 
are your own? Do you love him enough to wait till her can make a home for 
you, or will you keep yourself quite free for the present?
I've been so scared and worried, I don't want to have anything to do with 
lovers for a long while, perhaps never,
If John doesn't know anything about this 
nonsense, don't tell him, and make Jo and Laurie hold their tongues. I won't 
be deceived and plagued and made a fool of. It's a shame!
s usually gentle temper was roused and her pride hurt by this 
mischievous joke, Mrs. March soothed her by promises of entire silence and 
great discretion for the future. The instant Laurie
t come,  but he 
knew the minute he saw Mrs. March
I'll never tell him to my dying day, wild horses shan't drag it out of me, so 
you'll forgive me, Meg, and I'll do anything to show how out-and-out sorry I 
am,
I'll try, but it was a very ungentlemanly thing to do, I didn't think you could 
be so sly and malicious, Laurie,
It was altogether abominable, and I don't deserve to be spoken to for a 
month, but you will, though, won't you?
s grave face relaxed, in spite of her 
efforts to keep sober, when she heard him declare that he would atone for 
his sins by all sorts of penances, and abase himself like a worm before the 
injured damsel. 
Jo stood aloof, meanwhile, trying to harden her heart against him, and 
succeeding only in primming up her face into an expression of entire 
disapprobation. Laurie looked at her once or twice, but as she showed no 
sign of relenting, he felt injured, and turned his back on her till the others 
were done with him, when he made her a low bow and walked off without a 
word. 
As soon as he had gone, she wished she had been more forgiving, and when 
Meg and her mother went upstairs, she felt lonely and longed for Teddy. 
After resisting for some time,  she yielded to the impulse, and armed with a 
book to return,  went over to the big house. 
"Is Mr. Laurence in?" asked Jo, of a housemaid, who was coming 
downstairs. 
"Yes, Miss, but I don
s seeable just yet." 
"Why not? Is he ill?" 
"La, no Miss, but he
t go 
nigh him." 
"Where is Laurie?
Shut up in his room, and he won't answer, though I've been a-tapping. I 
don't know what's to become of the dinner, for it's ready, and there's no one 
to eat it.
I'll go and see what the matter is. I'm not afraid of either of them.
s little study. 
"Stop that, or I
 called out the young 
gentleman in a threatening tone. 
Jo immediately knocked again. The door flew open, and in she bounced 
before Laurie could recover from his surprise. Seeing that he really was out 
of temper, Jo, who knew how to manage him,  assumed a contrite 
expression, and going artistically down upon her knees, said meekly, 
t go away till I 
have." 
"It
t be a goose, Jo," was the cavalier reply to her 
petition. 
"Thank you, I will. Could I ask what
t look exactly 
easy in your mind." 
"I
t bear it!" growled Laurie indignantly. 
"Who did it?" demanded Jo. 
"Grandfather. If it had been anyone else I
 And the injured youth 
finished his sentence by an energetic gesture of the right arm. 

s nothing. I often shake you, and you don
 said Jo soothingly. 

re a girl, and it
ll allow no man to shake me!" 
"I don
 

t say what your mother wanted me for. I
t going to break my word." 
"Couldn
 

d 
have told my part of the scrape, if I could without bringing Meg in. As I 
couldn
 

t nice, but he
ll help 
you." 
"Hanged if I do! I
t do it again, when I wasn
 

t know that." 
"He ought to trust me, and not act as if I was a baby. It
s got 
to learn that I
t need anyone
 
 sighed Jo. 
 
201
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
t tell him 
what the fuss
 

t do that." 
"I won
 

ll explain what I can. You can
s the use of being melodramatic?" 
"I don
ll slip off and take a journey 
somewhere, and when Grandpa misses me he
 
 

t preach. I
s gay there, and I
 

d have! I wish I could run off too," said Jo, forgetting her part 
of mentor in lively visions of martial life at the capital. 
"Come on, then! Why not? You go and surprise your father,  and I
s do it, Jo. We
ve got money enough. It will do 
you good, and no harm, as you go to your father." 
For a moment Jo looked as if she would agree, for wild as the plan was, it 
just suited her. She was tired of care and confinement, longed for change, 
and thoughts of her father blended temptingly with the novel charms of 
camps and hospitals, liberty and fun. Her eyes kindled as they turned 
wistfully toward the window, but they fell on the old house opposite,  and 
she shook her head with sorrowful decision. 
"If I was a boy, we
m a 
miserable girl, I must be proper and stop at home. Don
s a crazy plan." 
"That
 began Laurie, who had got a willful fit on him and was 
possessed to break out of bounds in some way. 

 cried Jo, covering her ears. 
 are my 
doom, and I may as well make up my mind to it. I came here to moralize, 
not to hear things that make me skip to think of." 
"I know Meg would wet-blanket such a proposal, but I thought you had 
more spirit," began Laurie insinuatingly. 
202
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Bad boy, be quiet! Sit down and think of your own sins,  don
 asked Jo seriously. 

t do it," answered Laurie, who wished to make up, but felt 
that his outraged dignity must be appeased first. 
"If I can manage the young one, I can the old one," muttered Jo, as she 
walked away, leaving Laurie bent over a railroad map with his head propped 
up on both hands. 
"Come in!" And Mr. Laurence
It's only me, Sir, come to return a book,
Want any more?
Yes, please. I like old Sam so well, I think I'll try the second volume,
s Johnson, as he had recommended that lively work. 
The shaggy eyebrows unbent a little as he rolled the steps toward the shelf 
where the Johnsonian literature was placed. Jo skipped up, and sitting on 
the top step, affected to be searching for her book, but was really wondering 
how best to introduce the dangerous object of her visit. Mr. Laurence 
seemed to suspect that something was brewing in her mind, for after taking 
several brisk turns about the room, he faced round on her, speaking so 
abruptly that Rasselas tumbled face downward on the floor. 
"What has that boy been about? Don
t get a word from 
him, and when I threatened to shake the truth out of him he bolted upstairs 
and locked himself into his room." 
"He did wrong, but we forgave him, and all promised not to say a word to 
anyone," began Jo reluctantly. 
"That won
s done anything amiss, he shall confess, beg pardon, 
and be punished. Out with it, Jo. I won
 
203
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 Mr. Laurence looked so alarming and spoke so sharply that Jo would have 
gladly run away, if she could, but she was perched aloft on the steps, and he 
stood at the foot, a lion in the path, so she had to stay and brave it out. 

t keep silence to shield 
him, but someone else, and it will make more trouble if you interfere. Please 
don
s all right now. So let
 

t done anything ungrateful or impertinent. If he 
has, after all your kindness to him, I
 
The threat sounded awful, but did not alarm Jo, for she knew the irascible 
old gentleman would never lift a finger against his grandson, whatever he 
might say to the contrary. She obediently descended, and made as light of 
the prank as she could without betraying Meg or forgetting the truth. 

ll forgive him. He
 
said Mr. Laurence, rubbing up his hair till it looked as if he had been out in 
a gale, and smoothing the frown from his brow with an air of relief. 

s horses and all 
the king
t," said Jo, trying to say a kind word for her friend, 
who seemed to get out of one scrape only to fall into another. 
"You think I
 was the sharp answer. 

t you think you are?" 
Jo was determined to have it out now, and tried to look quite placid, though 
she quaked a little after her bold speech. To her great relief and surprise, 
the old gentleman only threw his spectacles onto the table with a rattle and 
exclaimed frankly, "You
 

ll tell you, he
 Jo was sorry for that speech the minute it was 
made. She meant to warn him that Laurie would not bear much restraint, 
and hoped he would be more forebearing with the lad. 
Mr. Laurence's ruddy face changed suddenly, and he sat down,  with a 
troubled glance at the picture of a handsome man, which hung over his 
204
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 table. It was Laurie's father, who had run away in his youth, and married 
against the imperious old man's will. Jo fancied her remembered and 
regretted the past, and she wished she had held her tongue. 

t do it unless he is very much worried, and only threatens it 
sometimes, when he gets tired of studying. I often think I should like to, 
especially since my hair was cut, so if you ever miss us, you may advertise 
for two boys and look among the ships bound for India." 
She laughed as she spoke, and Mr. Laurence looked relieved,  evidently 
taking the whole as a joke. 
"You hussy, how dare you talk in that way? Where
t do without them," he said, pinching her cheeks good
humoredly. "Go and bring that boy down to his dinner, tell him it
t bear 
it." 
"He won
t believe him when he 
said he couldn
 
Jo tried to look pathetic but must have failed, for Mr. Laurence began to 
laugh, and she knew the day was won. 

m sorry for that, and ought to thank him for not shaking me, I suppose. 
What the dickens does the fellow expect?" And the old gentleman looked a 
trifle ashamed of his own testiness. 
"If I were you, I
t come down till 
he has one, and talks about Washington, and goes on in an absurd way. A 
formal apology will make him see how foolish he is, and bring him down 
quite amiable. Try it. He likes fun, and this was is better than talking. I
 
Mr. Laurence gave her a sharp look, and put on his spectacles, saying 
slowly, 
re a sly puss, but I don
 
The note was written in the terms which one gentleman would use to 
another after offering some deep insult. Jo dropped a kiss on the top of Mr. 
Laurence's bald head, and ran up to slip the apology under Laurie's door, 
advising him through the keyhole to be submissive, decorous, and a few 
other agreeable impossibilities. Finding the door locked again, she left the 
205
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 note to do its work,  and was going quietly away, when the young gentleman 
slid down the banisters, and waited for her at the bottom, saying, with his 
most virtuous expression of countenance, 
 he added, laughing. 

 

 he began apologetically. 

t talk that way, turn over a new leaf and begin again,  Teddy, my son." 
"I keep turning over new leaves, and spoiling them, as I used to spoil my 
copybooks, and I make so many beginnings there never will be an end," he 
said dolefully. 
"Go and eat your dinner, you
 and Jo whisked out at the front door after that. 

s a `label
," answered Laurie, quoting Amy, as he went to 
partake of humble pie dutifully with his grandfather, who was quite saintly 
in temper and overwhelmingly respectful in manner all the rest of the day. 
Everyone thought the matter ended and the little cloud blown over, but the 
mischief was done, for though others forgot it, Meg remembered. She never 
alluded to a certain person, but she thought of him a good deal, dreamed 
dreams more than ever,  and once Jo, rummaging her sister
,  whereat she groaned tragically and cast it into the fire, feeling that 
Laurie
s sewing, 
which had fallen sadly behindhand. Her once active limbs were so stiff and 
feeble that Jo took her for a daily airing about the house in her strong arms. 
Meg cheerfully blackened and burned her white hands cooking delicate 
messes for `the dear
 that it was going to be an 
unusually fine day, and she proved herself a true prophetess, for everybody 
and everything seemed bound to produce a grand success. To begin with, 
Mr. March wrote that he should soon be with them, then Beth felt 
uncommonly well that morning, and, being dressed in her mother
s fruit to feed our 
207
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 busy bee, And flowers for her nose. Here
s tail,  And ice cream made by 
lovely Peg,  A Mont Blanc in a pail. 
Their dearest love my makers laid Within my breast of snow. Accept it, and 
the Alpine maid, From Laurie and from Jo. 
How Beth laughed when she saw it, how Laurie ran up and down to bring in 
the gifts, and what ridiculous speeches Jo made as she presented them. 
"I
t hold one 
drop more," said Beth, quite sighing with contentment as Jo carried her off 
to the study to rest after the excitement, and to refresh herself with some of 
the delicious grapes the `Jungfrau
So am I,
I'm sure I am,
Of course I am!
How can I be otherwise?
s letter to 
Beth
Here's another Christmas present for the March family.
t. Of course there was a general stampede,  and for several minutes 
everybody seemed to lose their wits, for the strangest things were done, and 
no one said a word. 
Mr. March became invisible in the embrace of four pairs of loving arms. Jo 
disgraced herself by nearly fainting away, and had to be doctored by Laurie 
in the china closet. Mr. Brooke kissed Meg entirely by mistake, as he 
somewhat incoherently explained. And Amy, the dignified, tumbled over a 
stool, and never stopping to get up, hugged and cried over her father
Hush! Remember Beth.
s arms. Never mind what happened just after that, 
for the full hearts overflowed,  washing away the bitterness of the past and 
leaving only the sweetness of the present. 
It was not at all romantic, but a hearty laugh set everybody straight again, 
for Hannah was discovered behind the door, sobbing over the fat turkey, 
which she had forgotten to put down when she rushed up from the kitchen. 
As the laugh subsided, Mrs. March began to thank Mr. Brooke for his 
faithful care of her husband, at which Mr. Brooke suddenly remembered 
that Mr. March needed rest, and seizing Laurie, he precipitately retired. 
Then the two invalids were ordered to repose, which they did, by both sitting 
in one big chair and talking hard. 
Mr. March told how he had longed to surprise them, and how,  when the 
fine weather came, he had been allowed by his doctor, to take advantage of 
it, how devoted Brooke had been, and how he was altogether a most 
estimable and upright young man. Why Mr. March paused a minute just 
there, and after a glance at Meg, who was violently poking the fire, looked at 
his wife with an inquiring lift of the eyebrows, I leave you to imagine. Also 
why Mrs. March gently nodded her head and asked, rather abruptly, if he 
wouldn
I hate estimable young men with brown eyes!
s mouth, 
likewise the jellies, in which Amy reveled like a fly in a honeypot. Everything 
turned out well, which was a mercy, Hannah said, "For my mind was that 
209
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 flustered, Mum, that it
t roast the pudding, and stuff the 
turkey with raisins, let alone bilin
 
Mr. Laurence and his grandson dined with them, also Mr. Brooke, at whom 
Jo glowered darkly, to Laurie's infinite amusement. Two easy chairs stood 
side by side at the head of the table, in which sat Beth and her father, 
feasting modestly on chicken and a little fruit. They drank healths, told 
stories, sang songs,  `reminisced', as the old folks say, and had a thoroughly 
good time. A sleigh ride had been planned, but the girls would not leave 
their father, so the guests departed early, and as twilight gathered, the 
happy family sat together round the fire. 

 asked Jo, breaking a short pause which had 
followed a long conversation about many things. 

 said Meg, smiling at the fire, and 
congratulating herself on having treated Mr. Brooke with dignity. 

s been a pretty hard one," observed Amy, watching the light shine 
on her ring with thoughtful eyes. 
"i
s over, because we
 whispered Beth, who sat on 
her father's knee. 

 said Mr. March, looking with fatherly 
satisfaction at the four young faces gathered round him. 

 asked Jo. 
"Not much. Straws show which way the wind blows, and I
 

 cried Meg, who sat beside him. 

 And taking up the hand which lay on the arm of his chair, he 
pointed to the roughened forefinger, a burn on the back, and two or three 
little hard spots on the palm. 
m sure the sewing done by 
these pricked fingers will last a long time, so much good will went into the 
210
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 stitches. Meg, my dear,  I value the womanly skill which keeps home happy 
more than white hands or fashionable accomplishments. I
 
If Meg had wanted a reward for hours of patient labor, she received it in the 
hearty pressure of her father's hand and the approving smile he gave her. 

 said Beth in her father's ear. 
He laughed and looked across at the tall girl who sat opposite,  with and 
unusually mild expression in her face. 

t see the `son Jo
 
said Mr. March. 
t bounce, but moves quietly, and takes care of a certain 
little person in a motherly way which delights me. I rather miss my wild girl, 
but if I get a strong, helpful, tenderhearted woman in her place, I shall feel 
quite satisfied. I don
t find anything beautiful 
enough to be bought with the five-and-twenty dollars my good girl sent me." 
Jo
s praise,  feeling that she did deserve 
a portion of it. 
"Now, Beth," said Amy, longing for her turn, but ready to wait. 
"There
m afraid to say much, for fear she will slip away 
altogether, though she is not so shy as she used to be," began their father 
cheerfully. But recollecting how nearly he had lost her, he held her close, 
saying tenderly, with her cheek against his own, "I
ll keep you so, please God." 
After a minute
I observed that Amy took drumsticks at dinner, ran errands for her mother 
all the afternoon, gave Meg her place tonight, and has waited on every on 
with patience and good humor. I also observe that she does not fret much 
211
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 nor look in the glass, and has not even mentioned a very pretty ring which 
she wears, so I conclude that she has learned to think of other people more 
and of herself less, and has decided to try and mold her character as 
carefully as she molds her little clay figures. I am glad of this, for though I 
should be very proud of a graceful statue made by her, I shall be infinitely 
prouder of a lovable daughter with a talent for making life beautiful to 
herself and others.
What are you thinking of, Beth?
I read in PILGRIM'S PROGRESS today how, after many troubles,  christian 
and Hopeful came to a pleasant green meadow where lilies bloomed all year 
round, and there they rested happily, as we do now, before they went on to 
their journey's end,
s arms and went to the instrument, "It
ll try to sing the song of the shepherd boy which the 
Pilgrims heard. I made the music for Father, because he likes the verses." 
So, sitting at the dear little piano, Beth softly touched the keys, and in the 
sweet voice they had never thought to hear again,  sang to her own 
accompaniment the quaint hymn, which was a singularly fitting song for 
her. 
 He that is down need fear no fall,  He that is low no pride. He that is 
humble ever shall Have God to be his guide. 
I am content with what I have,  Little be it, or much. And, Lord! 
Contentment still I crave,  Because Thou savest such. 
Fulness to them a burden is,  That go on pilgrimage. Here little, and 
hereafter bliss,  Is best from age to age! 
212
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE 
Like bees swarming after their queen, mother and daughters hovered about 
Mr. March the next day, neglecting everything to look at, wait upon, and 
listen to the new invalid, who was in a fair way to be killed by kindness. As 
he sat propped up in a big chair by Beth
, nothing seemed needed to complete their happiness. But something 
was needed, and the elder ones felt it, though none confessed the fact. Mr. 
and Mrs. March looked at one another with an anxious expression, as their 
eyes followed Meg. Jo had sudden fits of sobriety, and was seen to shake her 
fist at Mr. Brooke
s name was mentioned. Amy said, "Everyone seemed waiting for 
something, and couldn
 and Beth innocently wondered why their neighbors didn't run 
over as usual. 
Laurie went by in the afternoon, and seeing Meg at the window, seemed 
suddenly possessed with a melodramatic fit, for he fell down on one knee in 
the snow, beat his breast, tore his hair, and clasped his hands imploringly, 
as if begging some boon. And when Meg told him to behave himself and go 
away, he wrung imaginary tears out of his handkerchief, and staggered 
round the corner as if in utter despair. 

 said Meg, laughing and trying to look 
unconscious. 

s showing you how your John will go on by-and-by.  Touchin, isn
 
answered Jo scornfully. 

t say my John, it isn
 but Meg's voice lingered over the 
words as if they sounded pleasant to her. 
t plague me, Jo, I
t care much about him, and there isn
 

t, for something has been said, and Laurie
t mean to plague you and will bear 
it like a man, but I do wish it was all settled. I hate to wait, so if you mean 
ever to do it,  make haste and have it over quickly," said Jo pettishly. 
213
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "I can
t, because Father said I was 
too young," began Meg, bending over her work with a queer little smile, 
which suggested that she did not quite agree with her father on that point. 
"If he did speak, you wouldn
 

m not so silly and weak as you think. I know just what I should say, for 
I
t be taken unawares. There
 
Jo couldn't help smiling at the important air which Meg had unconsciously 
assumed and which was as becoming as the pretty color varying in her 
cheeks. 

d say?" asked Jo more respectfully. 
"Not at all. You are sixteen now, quite old enough to be my confidente, and 
my experience will be useful to you by-and-by,  perhaps, in your own affairs 
of this sort." 
"Don
s fun to watch other people philander, but I 
should feel like a fool doing it myself," said Jo, looking alarmed at the 
thought. 
"I think not, if you liked anyone very much, and he liked you." Meg spoke as 
if to herself, and glanced out at the lane where she had often seen lovers 
walking together in the summer twilight. 
"I thought you were going to tell your speech to that man," said Jo, rudely 
shortening her sister
Oh, I should merely say, quite calmly and decidedly, `Thank you, Mr. 
Brooke, you are very kind, but I agree with Father that I am too young to 
enter into any engagement at present, so please say no more, but let us be 
friends as we were.
Hum, that's stiff and cool enough! I don't believe you'll ever say it, and I 
know he won't be satisfied if you do. If he goes on like the rejected lovers in 
books, you'll give in, rather than hurt his feelings.
No, I won't. I shall tell him I've made up my mind, and shall walk out of the 
room with dignity.
Good afternoon. I came to get my umbrella, that is, to see how your father 
finds himself today,
It's very well, he's in the rack. I'll get him, and tell it you are here.
Mother will like to see you. Pray sit down, I'll call her.
Don't go. Are you afraid of me, Margaret?
How can I be afraid when you have been so kind to Father? I only wish I 
could thank you for it.
Shall I tell you how?
Oh no, please don't, I'd rather not,
I won't trouble you. I only want to know if you care for me a little, Meg. I 
love you so much, dear,
t make it. 
She forgot every word of it, hung her head, and answered, "I don
 so 
softly that John had to stoop down to catch the foolish little reply. 
He seemed to think it was worth the trouble, for he smiled to himself as if 
quite satisfied, pressed the plump hand gratefully, and said in his most 
persuasive tone, 
t go to work with any heart until I learn whether I am to have my reward 
in the end or not." 
"I
 faltered Meg, wondering was she was so fluttered, yet rather 
enjoying it. 

ll wait, and in the meantime, you could be learning to like me. Would it be 
a very hard lesson, dear?" 
"Not if I chose to learn it, but. . ." 
"Please choose to learn, Meg. I love you to teach, and this is easier than 
German," broke in John, getting possession of the other hand, so that she 
had no way of hiding her face as he bent to look into it. 
His tone was properly beseeching, but stealing a shy look at him, Meg saw 
that his eyes were merry as well as tender, and that he wore the satisfied 
smile of one who had no doubt of his success. This nettled her. Annie 
Moffat
I don't choose. Please go away and let me be!
Do you really mean that?
Yes, I do. I don't want to be worried about such things. Father says I 
needn't, it's too soon and I'd rather not.
Mayn't I hope you'll change your mind by-and-by? I'll wait and say nothing 
till you have had more time. Don't play with me, Meg. I didn't think that of 
you.
Don't think of me at all. I'd rather you wouldn't,
s patience and her own power. He 
was grave and pale now, and looked decidedly more like the novel heroes 
whom she admired, but he neither slapped his forehead nor tramped about 
the room as they did. He just stood looking at her so wistfully, so tenderly, 
that she found her heart relenting in spite of herself. What would have 
216
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 happened next I cannot say, if Aunt March had not come hobbling in at this 
interesting minute. 
The old lady couldn
s arrival, drove 
straight out to see him. The family were all busy in the back part of the 
house, and she had made her way quietly in, hoping to surprise them. She 
did surprise two of them so much that Meg started as if she had seen a 
ghost, and Mr. Brooke vanished into the study. 
"Bless me, what
 cried the old lady with a rap of her cane as she 
glanced from the pale young gentleman to the scarlet young lady. 

s Father
m so surprised to see you!" stammered Meg, feeling 
that she was in for a lecture now. 
"That
 returned Aunt March, sitting down. 
s 
friend saying to make you look like a peony? There
 with another rap. 

 began Meg, 
wishing that Mr. Brooke and the umbrella were safely out of the house. 

s tutor? Ah! I understand now. I know all about it. Jo 
blundered into a wrong message in one of your Father
t gone and accepted him, child?" cried Aunt March, 
looking scandalized. 
"Hush! He
t I call Mother?" said Meg, much troubled. 
"Not yet. I
 said the old lady 
impressively. 
Now Aunt March possessed in perfection the art of rousing the spirit of 
opposition in the gentlest people, and enjoyed doing it. The best of us have a 
spice of perversity in us, especially when we are young and in love. If Aunt 
March had begged Meg to accept John Brooke, she would probably have 
declared she couldn't think of it, but as she was preemptorily ordered not to 
like him, she immediately made up her mind that she would. Inclination as 
well as perversity made the decision easy, and being already much excited, 
Meg opposed the old lady with unusual spirit. 
 she said, 
nodding her head with a resolute air. 

ll be sorry for 
it by-and-by, when you
 

t be a worse one than some people find in big houses," retorted Meg. 
Aunt March put on her glasses and took a look at the girl,  for she did not 
know her in this new mood. Meg hardly knew herself, she felt so brave and 
independent, so glad to defend John and assert her right to love him, if she 
liked. Aunt March saw that she had begun wrong, and after a little pause, 
made a fresh start, saying as mildly as she could, "Now, Meg, my dear,  be 
reasonable and take my advice. I mean it kindly, and don
s your duty to make a rich match and it ought 
to be impressed upon you." 
"Father and Mother don
 

 

m glad of it," cried Meg stoutly. 
Aunt March took no notice, but went on with her lecture. "This Rook is poor 
and hasn
 

 

t live on friends, try it and see how cool they
t any 
business, has he?" 
"Not yet. Mr. Laurence is going to help him." 
"That won
 

t do better if I waited half my life! John is good and wise, he
s willing to work and sure to get on, he
m proud to think he cares for 
me, though I
 said Meg, looking prettier than 
ever in her earnestness. 
218
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
s the secret of his liking, I 
suspect." 
"Aunt March, how dare you say such a thing? John is above such 
meanness, and I won
 cried Meg 
indignantly, forgetting everything but the injustice of the old lady's 
suspicions. 
t marry for money, any more than I would. We 
are willing to work and we mean to wait. I
ve 
been happy so far, and I know I shall be with him because he loves me, and 
I..." 
Meg stopped there, remembering all of a sudden that she hadn
 to go away, and that he might be 
overhearing her inconsistent remarks. 
Aunt March was very angry, for she had set her heart on having her pretty 
niece make a fine match, and something in the girl
Well, I wash my hands of the whole affair! You are a willful child, and 
you've lost more than you know by this piece of folly. No, I won't stop. I'm 
disappointed in you, and haven't spirits to see your father now. Don't expect 
anything from me when you are married. Your Mr. Book's friends must take 
care of you. I'm done with you forever.
s face, Aunt March drove off in high dudgeon. 
She seemed to take all the girl
I couldn't help hearing, Meg. Thank you for defending me, 
and Aunt March for proving that you do care for me a little bit.
I didn't know how much till she abused you,
And I needn't go away, but my stay and be happy, may I, dear?
s eyes by meekly whispering, "Yes, John," and hiding her face on Mr. 
Brooke
s departure, Jo came softly downstairs, 
paused an instant at the parlor door, and hearing no sound within, nodded 
and smiled with a satisfied expression, saying to herself, "She has seen him 
219
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 away as we planned, and that affair is settled. I
 
But poor Jo never got her laugh, for she was transfixed upon the threshold 
by a spectacle which held her there, staring with her mouth nearly as wide 
open as her eyes. Going in to exult over a fallen enemy and to praise a 
strong-minded sister for the banishment of an objectionable lover, it 
certainly was a shock to behold the aforesaid enemy serenely sitting on the 
sofa, with the strongminded sister enthroned upon his knee and wearing an 
expression of the most abject submission. Jo gave a sort of gasp, as if a cold 
shower bath had suddenly fallen upon her, for such an unexpected turning 
of the tables actually took her breath away. At the odd sound the lovers 
turned and saw her. Meg jumped up, looking both proud and shy, but `that 
man', as Jo called him, actually laughed and said coolly, as he kissed the 
astonished newcomer, 
 
That was adding insult to injury, it was altogether too much,  and making 
some wild demonstration with her hands, Jo vanished without a word. 
Rushing upstairs, she startled the invalids by exclaiming tragically as she 
burst into the room, 
 
Mr. and Mrs. March left the room with speed, and casting herself upon the 
be, Jo cried and scolded tempestuously as she told the awful news to Beth 
and Amy. The little girls, however, considered it a most agreeable and 
interesting event, and Jo got little comfort from them, so she went up to her 
refuge in the garret, and confided her troubles to the rats. 
Nobody ever knew what went on in the parlor that afternoon, but a great 
deal of talking was done, and quiet Mr. Brooke astonished his friends by the 
eloquence and spirit with which he pleaded his suit,  told his plans, and 
persuaded them to arrange everything just as he wanted it. 
The tea bell rang before he had finished describing the paradise which he 
meant to earn for Meg, and he proudly took her in to supper,  both looking 
so happy that Jo hadn't the heart to be jealous or dismal. Amy was very 
much impressed by John's devotion and Meg's dignity, Beth beamed at 
them from a distance, while Mr. and Mrs. March surveyed the young couple 
with such tender satisfaction that it was perfectly evident Aunt March was 
right in calling them as `unworldly as a pair of babies'. No one ate much, 
but everyone looked very happy, and the old room seemed to brighten up 
amazingly when the first romance of the family began there. 
220
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
t say nothing pleasant ever happens now, can you, Meg?" said 
Amy, trying to decide how she would group the lovers in a sketch she was 
planning to make. "No, I
t. How much has happened since I 
said that! It seems a year ago," answered Meg, who was in a blissful dream 
lifted far above such common things as bread and butter. 
"The joys come close upon the sorrows this time, and I rather think the 
changes have begun," said Mrs. March. "In most families there comes, now 
and then, a year full of events. This has been such a one, but it ends well, 
after all." 
"Hope the next will end better," muttered Jo, who found it very hard to see 
Meg absorbed in a stranger before her face, for Jo loved a few persons very 
dearly and dreaded to have their affection lost or lessened in any way. "I 
hope the third year from this will end better. I mean it shall, if I live to work 
out my plans," said Mr. Brooke, smiling at Meg, as if everything had become 
possible to him now. 
"Doesn
 asked Amy, who was in a hurry for the 
wedding. 

ve got so much to learn before I shall be ready, it seems a short time to 
me," answered Meg, with a sweet gravity in her face never seen there before. 
"You have only to wait, I am to do the work," said John beginning his labors 
by picking up Meg
Here comes Laurie. Now we shall have some sensible 
conversation.
, and 
evidently laboring under the delusion that the whole affair had been brought 
about by his excellent management. 
"I knew Brooke would have it all his own way, he always does,  for when he 
makes up his mind to accomplish anything, it
 
said Laurie, when he had presented his offering and his congratulations. 

 answered Mr. Brooke, who 
felt at peace with all mankind, even his mischievous pupil. 
221
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
ll come if I
s face alone on that 
occasion would be worth a long journey. You don
am, 
what
 asked Laurie,  following her into a corner of the parlor, 
whither all had adjourned to greet Mr. Laurence. 

t approve of the match, but I
 said Jo solemnly. 
t know how hard it is 
for me to give up Meg," she continued with a little quiver in her voice. "You 
don
 said Laurie consolingly. 

ve lost my dearest friend," sighed Jo. 
"You
m not good for much, I know, but I
 And Laurie meant what 
he said. 

m ever so much obliged. You are always a great 
comfort to me, Teddy," returned Jo, gratefully shaking hands. "Well, now, 
don
s a good fellow. It
ll have 
capital times after she is gone, for I shall be through college before long, and 
then we
t that console you?" 
"I rather think it would, but there
 said Jo thoughtfully. 

s true. Don
 returned Laurie. 

t believe they could be much improved." And Jo
s wedding with free minds, 
it will be well to begin with a little gossip about the Marches. And here let 
me premise that if any of the elders think there is too much `lovering
m not afraid the young folks will make that 
objection),  I can only say with Mrs. March, "What can you expect when I 
have four gay girls in the house, and a dashing young neighbor over the 
way?" 
The three years that have passed have brought but few changes to the quiet 
family. The war is over, and Mr. March safely at home, busy with his books 
and the small parish which found in him a minister by nature as by grace, a 
quiet, studious man, rich in the wisdom that is better than learning, the 
charity which calls all mankind `brother
t pay
s keeping, their souls into their 
father
s affairs that the hospitals and 
homes still full of wounded `boys
 widows, decidedly miss the 
motherly missionary
s more generous offers, and accepted the place of 
bookkeeper, feeling better satisfied to begin with an honestly earned salary 
than by running any risks with borrowed money. 
Meg had spent the time in working as well as waiting, growing womanly in 
character, wise in housewifely arts, and prettier than ever, for love is a great 
beautifier. She had her girlish ambitions and hopes, and felt some 
disappointment at the humble way in which the new life must begin. Ned 
Moffat had just married Sallie Gardiner, and Meg couldn
s splendor and felt herself the 
richest, happiest girl in Christendom. 
Jo never went back to Aunt March, for the old lady took such a fancy to AMy 
that she bribed her with the offer of drawing lessons from one of the best 
teachers going, and for the sake of this advantage, Amy would have served a 
far harder mistress. So she gave her mornings to duty, her afternoons to 
pleasure, and prospered finely. Jo meantime devoted herself to literature 
and Beth, who remained delicate long after the fever was a thing of the past. 
Not an invalid exactly, but never again the rosy, healthy creature she had 
been, yet always hopeful, happy, and serene, and busy with the quiet duties 
she loved, everyone
, as she called it, Jo felt herself a woman of means, and spun her 
little romances diligently. But great plans fermented in her busy brain and 
ambitious mind, and the old tin kitchen in the garret held a slowly 
increasing pile of blotted manuscript, which was one day to place the name 
of March upon the roll of fame. 
Laurie, having dutifully gone to college to please his grandfather, was now 
getting through it in the easiest possible manner to please himself. A 
universal favorite, thanks to money, manners,  much talent, and the kindest 
heart that ever got its owner into scrapes by trying to get other people out of 
them, he stood in great danger of being spoiled, and probably would have 
been, like many another promising boy, if he had not possessed a talisman 
against evil in the memory of the kind old man who was bound up in his 
success, the motherly friend who watched over him as if he were her son, 
and last, but not least by any means, the knowledge that four innocent girls 
loved, admired, and believed in him with all their hearts. 
Being only `a glorious human boy
, were heroes in the eyes of the girls,  who 
never wearied of the exploits of `our fellows
s 
shrine. And speaking of sentiment brings us very naturally to the `Dovecote
s first home. Laurie had christened it, saying it was highly appropriate 
to the gentle lovers who `went on together like a pair of turtledoves, with 
first a bill and then a coo
t think the Parian Psyche Laurie gave lost any of its beauty because 
John put up the bracket it stood upon, that any upholsterer could have 
draped the plain muslin curtains more gracefully than Amy
s few boxes,  barrels, and bundles, and I am morally certain that the 
spandy new kitchen never could have looked so cozy and neat if Hannah 
had not arranged every pot and pan a dozen times over, and laid the fire all 
ready for lighting the minute `Mis. Brooke came home
s ridiculous bargains. In his love of jokes, this young 
gentleman, though nearly through college, was a much of a boy as ever. His 
last whim had been to bring with him on his weekly visits some new, useful, 
and ingenious article for the young housekeeper. Now a bag of remarkable 
clothespins, next, a wonderful nutmeg grater which fell to pieces at the first 
trial, a knife cleaner that spoiled all the knives, or a sweeper that picked the 
nap neatly off the carpet and left the dirt,  labor-saving soap that took the 
skin off one
. He was possessed with a mania for patronizing Yankee 
ingenuity, and seeing his friends fitly furnished forth. So each week beheld 
some fresh absurdity. 
Everything was done at last, even to Amy
s setting the table for the 
first meal. 
"Are you satisfied? Does it seem like home, and do you feel as if you should 
be happy here?" asked Mrs. March, as she and her daughter went through 
the new kingdom arm in arm, for just then they seemed to cling together 
more tenderly than ever. 
"Yes, Mother, perfectly satisfied, thanks to you all, and so happy that I can
 with a look that was far better than words. 

 said Amy, coming out 
of the parlor, where she had been trying to decide whether the bronze 
Mercury looked best on the whatnot or the mantlepiece. 

 answered Meg tranquilly. 

 began Amy. 

t hold them, and master and missis 
would have to camp in the garden," broke in Jo, who, enveloped in a big 
blue pinafore, was giving the last polish to the door handles. 
"Sallie isn
s wife, and many maids are in keeping with her fine 
establishment. Meg and John begin humbly, but I have a feeling that there 
will be quite as much happiness in the little house as in the big one. It
 

t you go into the kitchen and make messes, as Sallie says she 
does to amuse herself, though they never turn out well and the servants 
laugh at her," said Meg. 
"I did after a while, not to `mess
 

m sure of that," said Meg, listening respectfully to the little 
lecture, for the best of women will hold forth upon the all absorbing subject 
of house keeping. "Do you know I like this room most of all in my baby 
house," added Meg, a minute after, as they went upstairs and she looked 
into her well-stored linen closet. 
Beth was there, laying the snowy piles smoothly on the shelves and exulting 
over the goodly array. All three laughed as Meg spoke,  for that linen closet 
was a joke. You see, having said that if Meg married `that Brooke
t have a cent of her money, Aunt March was rather in a quandary 
when time had appeased her wrath and made her repent her vow. She never 
broke her word, and was much exercised in her mind how to get round it, 
and at last devised a plan whereby she could satisfy herself. Mrs. Carrol, 
229
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 Florence
That's a housewifely taste which I am glad to see. I had a young friend who 
set up housekeeping with six sheets, but she had finger bowls for company 
and that satisfied her,
I haven't a single finger bowl, but this is a setout that will last me all my 
days, Hannah says.
Here I am, Mother! Yes, it's all right.
For Mrs. John Brooke, with the maker's congratulations and compliments. 
Bless you, Beth! What a refreshing spectacle you are, Jo. Amy, you are 
getting altogether too handsome for a single lady.
s 
hair ribbon, stared at Jo
Where is John?
Stopped to get the license for tomorrow, ma'am.
Which side won the last match, Teddy?
Ours, of course. Wish you'd been there to see.
How is the lovely Miss Randal?
More cruel than ever. Don't you see how I'm pining away?
What's the last joke? Undo the bundle and see, Meg,
It's a useful thing to have in the house in case of fire or thieves,
s rattle appeared,  amid the laughter of the girls. 
"Any time when John is away and you get frightened, Mrs. Meg, just swing 
that out of the front window, and it will rouse the neighborhood in a jiffy. 
Nice thing, isn
 And Laurie gave them a sample of its powers that made 
them cover up their ears. 

s gratitude for you! And speaking of gratitude reminds me to mention 
that you may thank Hannah for saving your wedding cake from destruction. 
I saw it going into your house as I came by, and if she hadn
d have had a pick at it, for it looked like a remarkably plummy 
one." 
"I wonder if you will ever grow up, Laurie," said Meg in a matronly tone. 
"I
am, but can
m afraid,  as six feet 
is about all men can do in these degenerate days," responded the young 
gentleman, whose head was about level with the little chandelier. 
"I suppose it would be profanation to eat anything in this spick-and-span 
bower, so as I
 he added 
presently. 

 said Meg, bustling away. 

s to get more flowers for 
tomorrow," added Amy, tying a picturesque hat over her picturesque curls, 
and enjoying the effect as much as anybody. 
"Come, Jo, don
m in such a state of exhaustion I can
t take off your apron,  whatever you do, it
 said Laurie, as Jo bestowed his especial aversion in 
her capacious pocket and offered her arm to support his feeble steps. 

 began Jo, as 
they strolled away together. 
 
231
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
 

t say funny things when we ought to be sober." 
"I never do. You are the one for that." 
"And I implore you not to look at me during the ceremony. I shall certainly 
laugh if you do." 
"You won
ll be crying so hard that the thick fog round you will 
obscure the prospect." 
"I never cry unless for some great affliction." 
"Such as fellows going to college, hey?" cut in Laurie, with suggestive laugh. 
"Don
 

 

ll take it?" 
asked Jo rather sharply. 
"Now, Jo, do you think I
, if 
it wasn
 And Laurie stopped short, with an injured air. 

t." 
"Then don
 said Laurie, 
walking on again, appeased by her hearty tone. 

 

t spend it, it spends itself somehow, and is gone before I 
know it." 
"You are so generous and kind-hearted that you let people borrow,  and 
can
 to anyone. We heard about Henshaw and all you did for him. 
If you always spent money in that way, no one would blame you," said Jo 
warmly. 
"Oh, he made a mountain out of a molehill. You wouldn
 

t see the use of your having seventeen waistcoats, 
endless neckties, and a new hat every time you come home. I thought you
s the fashion to be hideous,  to make your head look like a 
scrubbing brush, wear a strait jacket,  orange gloves, and clumping square
toed boots. If it was cheap ugliness, I
t get any satisfaction out of it." 
Laurie threw back his head, and laughed so heartily at this attack, that the 
felt hat fell off, and Jo walked on it, which insult only afforded him an 
opportunity for expatiating on the advantages of a rough-and-ready 
costume, as he folded up the maltreated hat, and stuffed it into his pocket. 
"Don
s a good soul! I have enough all through the 
week, and like to enjoy myself when I come home. I
 

ll leave you in peace if you
m not aristocratic, 
but I do object to being seen with a person who looks like a young prize 
fighter," observed Jo severely. 
"This unassuming style promotes study, that
 returned 
Laurie, who certainly could not be accused of vanity, having voluntarily 
sacrificed a handsome curly crop to the demand for quarterinch-long 
stubble. 

d better nip his little passion in the bud, hadn
 
added Laurie, in a confidential,  elder brotherly tone, after a minute's 
silence. 

t want any more marrying in this family for years 
to come. Mercy on us, what are the children thinking of?" And Jo looked as 
much scandalized as if Amy and little Parker were not yet in their teens. 
"It
t know what we are coming to, ma
ll go next, Jo, and we
 said Laurie, 
shaking his head over the degeneracy of the times. 

t be alarmed. I
s a mercy, for there should always be one old maid in a family." 
"You won
 said Laurie, with a sidelong glance and a 
little more color than before in his sunburned face. 
t show the soft 
side of your character, and if a fellow gets a peep at it by accident and can
 

t like that sort of thing. I
s dreadful to break up families so. Now don
s wedding has turned all our heads, and we talk of nothing but lovers 
and such absurdities. I don
s change the subject." 
And Jo looked quite ready to fling cold water on the slightest provocation. 
Whatever his feelings might have been, Laurie found a vent for them in a 
long low whistle and the fearful prediction as they parted at the gate, "Mark 
my words, Jo, you
 
234
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE 
The June roses over the porch were awake bright and early on that morning, 
rejoicing with all their hearts in the cloudless sunshine, like friendly little 
neighbors, as they were. Quite flushed with excitement were their ruddy 
faces, as they swung in the wind,  whispering to one another what they had 
seen, for some peeped in at the dining room windows where the feast was 
spread, some climbed up to nod and smile at the sisters as they dressed the 
bride, others waved a welcome to those who came and went on various 
errands in garden, porch, and hall, and all, from the rosiest full-blown 
flower to the palest baby bud, offered their tribute of beauty and fragrance 
to the gentle mistress who had loved and tended them so long. 
Meg looked very like a rose herself, for all that was best and sweetest in 
heart and soul seemed to bloom into her face that day,  making it fair and 
tender, with a charm more beautiful than beauty. Neither silk, lace, nor 
orange flowers would she have. 
t want a fashionable wedding, but 
only those about me whom I love,  and to them I wish to look and be my 
familiar self." 
So she made her wedding gown herself, sewing into it the tender hopes and 
innocent romances of a girlish heart. her sisters braided up her pretty hair, 
and the only ornaments she wore were the lilies of the valley, which `her 
John
You do look just like our own dear Meg, only so very sweet and lovely that I 
should hug you if it wouldn't crumple your dress,
Then I am satisfied. But please hug and kiss me, everyone,  and don't mind 
my dress. I want a great many crumples of this sort put into it today.
Now I'm going to tie John's cravat for him, and then to stay a few minutes 
with Father quietly in the study.
s angles are much softened, she has learned to carry herself with ease, if 
not grace. The curly crop has lengthened into a thick coil, more becoming to 
the small head atop of the tall figure. There is a fresh color in her brown 
cheeks, a soft shine in her eyes, and only gentle words fall from her sharp 
tongue today. 
Beth has grown slender, pale, and more quiet than ever. The beautiful, kind 
eyes are larger, and in them lies an expression that saddens one, although it 
is not sad itself. It is the shadow of pain which touches the young face with 
such pathetic patience,  but Beth seldom complains and always speaks 
hopefully of `being better soon
, for at sixteen she has 
the air and bearing of a full-grown woman, not beautiful, but possessed of 
that indescribable charm called grace. One saw it in the lines of her figure, 
the make and motion of her hands, the flow of her dress, the droop of her 
hair, unconscious yet harmonious, and as attractive to many as beauty 
itself. Amy
Upon my word, here's a state of things!
You oughtn't to be seen till the last minute, child.
I'm not a show, Aunty, and no one is coming to stare at me,  to criticize my 
dress, or count the cost of my luncheon. I'm too happy to care what anyone 
says or thinks, and I'm going to have my little wedding just as I like it. John, 
dear, here's your hammer.
 in his 
highly improper employment. 
Mr. Brooke didn
Thank you,
Jupiter Ammon! Jo's upset the cake again!
, as Beth used to say when a child. 
"Don
 whispered the old lady to Amy, as the rooms filled and Laurie's 
black head towered above the rest. 

 returned Amy, and gliding away to warn Hercules to beware of the 
dragon, which warning caused him to haunt the old lady with a devotion 
that nearly distracted her. 
There was no bridal procession, but a sudden silence fell upon the room as 
Mr. March and the young couple took their places under the green arch. 
Mother and sisters gathered close, as if loath to give Meg up. The fatherly 
voice broke more than once, which only seemed to make the service more 
beautiful and solemn. The bridegroom's hand trembled visibly, and no one 
heard his replies. But Meg looked straight up in her husband's eyes, and 
said, 
 with such tender trust in her own face and voice that her 
mother's heart rejoiced and Aunt March sniffed audibly. 
Jo did not cry, though she was very near it once, and was only saved from a 
demonstration by the consciousness that Laurie was staring fixedly at her, 
with a comical mixture of merriment and emotion in his wicked black eyes. 
Beth kept her face hidden on her mother's shoulder, but Amy stood like a 
graceful statue, with a most becoming ray of sunshine touching her white 
forehead and the flower in her hair. 
It wasn't at all the thing, I'm afraid, but the minute she was fairly married, 
Meg cried, 
 and turning,  gave it with her heart 
on her lips. During the next fifteen minutes she looked more like a rose than 
237
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 ever, for everyone availed themselves of their privileges to the fullest extent, 
from Mr. Laurence to old Hannah, who, adorned with a headdress fearfully 
and wonderfully made, fell upon her in the hall, crying with a sob and a 
chuckle, 
t hurt a mite, and 
everything looks lovely." 
Everybody cleared up after that, and said something brilliant,  or tried to, 
which did just as well, for laughter is ready when hearts are light. There was 
no display of gifts, for they were already in the little house, nor was there an 
elaborate breakfast,  but a plentiful lunch of cake and fruit, dressed with 
flowers. Mr. Laurence and Aunt March shrugged and smiled at one another 
when water, lemonade, and coffee were found to be to only sorts of nectar 
which the three Hebes carried around. No one said anything,  till Laurie, 
who insisted on serving the bride, appeared before her,  with a loaded salver 
in his hand and a puzzled expression on his face. 
"Has Jo smashed all the bottles by accident?" he whispered,  "or am I merely 
laboring under a delusion that I saw some lying about loose this morning?" 
"No, your grandfather kindly offered us his best, and Aunt March actually 
sent some, but Father put away a little for Beth,  and dispatched the rest to 
the Soldier
 
Meg spoke seriously and expected to see Laurie frown or laugh,  but he did 
neither, for after a quick look at her, he said, in his impetuous way, 
ve seen enough harm done to wish other women would think as 
you do." 
"You are not made wise by experience, I hope?" And there was an anxious 
accent in Meg
No. I give you my word for it. Don't think too well of me,  either, this is not 
one of my temptations. Being brought up where wine is as common as water 
and almost as harmless, I don't care for it, but when a pretty girl offers it, 
one doesn't like to refuse,  you see.
But you will, for the sake of others, if not for your own. Come, Laurie, 
promise, and give me one more reason to call this the happiest day of my 
life.
s good. She did not speak, but she 
looked up at him with a face made very eloquent by happiness, and a smile 
which said, "No one can refuse me anything today." 
Laurie certainly could not, and with an answering smile, he gave her his 
hand, saying heartily, "I promise, Mrs. Brooke!" 
"I thank you, very, very much." 
"And I drink `long life to your resolution
 cried Jo,  baptizing him 
with a splash of lemonade, as she waved her glass and beamed approvingly 
upon him. 
So the toast was drunk, the pledge made and loyally kept in spite of many 
temptations, for with instinctive wisdom, the girls seized a happy moment to 
do their friend a service, for which he thanked them all his life. 
After lunch, people strolled about, by twos and threes, through the house 
and garden, enjoying the sunshine without and within. Meg and John 
happened to be standing together in the middle of the grass plot, when 
Laurie was seized with an inspiration which put the finishing touch to this 
unfashionable wedding. 

 cried Laurie, promenading down the path with Amy, with 
such infectious spirit and skill that everyone else followed their example 
without a murmur. Mr. and Mrs. March, Aunt and Uncle Carrol began it, 
others rapidly joined in, even Sallie Moffat, after a moment's hesitation, 
threw her train over her arm and whisked Ned into the ring. But the 
crowning joke was Mr. Laurence and Aunt March, for when the stately old 
gentleman chass'ed solemnly up to the old lady, she just tucked her cane 
under arm, and hopped briskly away to join hands with the rest and dance 
about the bridal pair, while the young folks pervaded the garden like 
butterflies on a midsummer day. 
Want of breath brought the impromptu ball to a close, and then people 
began to go. 

ll be sorry 
for it," said Aunt March to Meg, adding to the bridegroom, as he led her to 
the carriage, "You
 
239
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
ve been to for an age, Ned, and I don
t a bit of style about it," observed Mrs. Moffat to her 
husband, as they drove away. 
"Laurie, my lad, if you ever want to indulge in this sort of thing, get one of 
those little girls to help you, and I shall be perfectly satisfied," said Mr. 
Laurence, settling himself in his easy chair to rest after the excitement of the 
morning. 
"I
 was Laurie's unusually dutiful reply, as 
he carefully unpinned the posy Jo had put in his buttonhole. 
The little house was not far away, and the only bridal journey Meg had was 
the quiet walk with John from the old home to the new. When she came 
down, looking like a pretty Quakeress in her dovecolored suit and straw 
bonnet tied with white, they all gathered about her to say goodby, as 
tenderly as if she had been going to make the grand tour. 

t feel that I am separated from you, Marmee dear, or that I love you 
any the less for loving John so much," she said, clinging to her mother, with 
full eyes for a moment. "I shall come every day,  Father, and expect to keep 
my old place in all your hearts, though I am married. Beth is going to be 
with me a great deal, and the other girls will drop in now and then to laugh 
at my housekeeping struggles. Thank you all for my happy wedding day. 
Goodby, goodby!" 
They stood watching her, with faces full of love and hope and tender pride as 
she walked away, leaning on her husband
s 
married life began. 
240
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX 
It takes people a long time to learn the difference between talent and genius, 
especially ambitious young men and women. Amy was learning this 
distinction through much tribulation, for mistaking enthusiasm for 
inspiration, she attempted every branch of art with youthful audacity. For a 
long time there was a lull in the `mud-pie
s face was found boldly 
executed on the underside of the moulding board, and Bacchus on the head 
of a beer barrel. A chanting cherub adorned the cover of the sugar bucket,  
and attempts to portray Romeo and Juliet supplied kindling for some time. 
From fire to oil was a natural transition for burned fingers,  and Amy fell to 
painting with undiminished ardor. An artist friend fitted her out with his 
castoff palettes, brushes, and colors, and she daubed away, producing 
pastoral and marine views such as were never seen on land or sea. Her 
monstrosities in the way of cattle would have taken prizes at an agricultural 
fair, and the perilous pitching of her vessels would have produced 
seasickness in the most nautical observer, if the utter disregard to all known 
rules of shipbuilding and rigging had not convulsed him with laughter at the 
first glance. Swarthy boys and dark-eyed Madonnas, staring at you from one 
corner of the studio, suggested Murillo. Oily brown shadows of faces with a 
lurid streak in the wrong place, meant Rembrandt. Buxom ladies and 
dropiscal infants, Rubens, and Turner appeared in tempests of blue 
thunder, orange lightning, brown rain, and purple clouds, with a tomato
colored splash in the middle, which might be the sun or a bouy, a sailor
s robe, as the spectator pleased. 
Charcoal portraits came next, and the entire family hung in a row, looking 
as wild and crocky as if just evoked from a coalbin. Softened into crayon 
sketches, they did better, for the likenesses were good, and Amy
s 
nose, Meg
s eyes were pronounced `wonderfully fine
s 
heads. Children were enticed in as models, till their incoherent accounts of 
her mysterious doings caused Miss Amy to be regarded in the light of a 
young ogress. Her efforts in this line, however,  were brought to an abrupt 
close by an untoward accident, which quenched her ardor. Other models 
failing her for a time, she undertook to cast her own pretty foot, and the 
family were one day alarmed by an unearthly bumping and screaming and 
running to the rescue,  found the young enthusiast hopping wildly about the 
shed with her foot held fast in a pan full of plaster, which had hardened 
with unexpected rapidity. With much difficulty and some danger she was 
dug out, for Jo was so overcome with laughter while she excavated that her 
knife went too far, cut the poor foot, and left a lasting memorial of one 
artistic attempt, at least. 
After this Amy subsided, till a mania for sketching from nature set her to 
haunting river, field, and wood, for picturesque studies,  and sighing for 
ruins to copy. She caught endless colds sitting on damp grass to book 
`delicious bit
,  that looked like a choice 
display of featherbeds when done. She sacrificed her complexion floating on 
the river in the midsummer sun to study light and shade, and got a wrinkle 
over her nose trying after `points of sight
, as Michelangelo affirms, Amy had some claim 
to the divine attribute, for she persevered in spite of all obstacles, failures, 
and discouragements, firmly believing that in time she should do something 
worthy to be called `high art
If Amy went to court without any rehearsal beforehand, she'd 
know exactly what to do.
,  without 
being quite sure what the best really was. Money, position,  fashionable 
accomplishments, and elegant manners were most desirable things in her 
eyes, and she liked to associate with those who possessed them, often 
mistaking the false for the true, and admiring what was not admirable. 
Never forgetting that by birth she was a gentlewoman, she cultivated her 
aristocratic tastes and feelings, so that when the opportunity came she 
might be ready to take the place from which poverty now excluded her. 
"My lady," as her friends called her, sincerely desired to be a genuine lady, 
and was so at heart, but had yet to learn that money cannot buy refinement 
of nature, that rank does not always confer nobility, and that true breeding 
makes itself felt in spite of external drawbacks. 
"I want to ask a favor of you, Mamma," Amy said, coming in with an 
important air one day. 
"Well, little girl, what is it?" replied her mother, in whose eyes the stately 
young lady still remained `the baby
Our drawing class breaks up next week, and before the girls separate for 
the summer, I want to ask them out here for a day. They are wild to see the 
river, sketch the broken bridge, and copy some of the things they admire in 
my book. They have been very kind to me in many ways, and I am grateful, 
for they are all rich and I know I am poor, yet they never made any 
difference.
Why should they?
. 
"You know as well as I that it does make a difference with nearly everyone, 
so don
 And 
Amy smiled without bitterness, for she possessed a happy temper and 
hopeful spirit. 
Mrs. March laughed, and smoothed down her maternal pride as she asked, 

 

 
243
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
 

 

 asked her mother, beginning to look 
sober. 

t all come." 
"Bless me, child, you will have to charter an omnibus to carry them about." 
"Why, Mother, how can you think of such a thing? Not more than six or 
eight will probably come, so I shall hire a beach wagon and borrow Mr. 
Laurence
 (Hannah's pronunciation of charabanc.) 

 

ve calculated the cost, and I
 

t you think, dear, that as these girls are used to such things, and the 
best we can do will be nothing new, that some simpler plan would be 
pleasanter to them, as a change if nothing more, and much better for us 
than buying or borrowing what we don
 

t have it as I like, I don
t 
see why I can
m willing to pay for it," said Amy, with the decision which 
opposition was apt to change into obstinacy. 
Mrs. March knew that experience was an excellent teacher, and when it was 
possible she left her children to learn alone the lessons which she would 
gladly have made easier, if they had not objected to taking advice as much 
as they did salts and senna. 
"Very well, Amy, if your heart is set upon it, and you see your way through 
without too great an outlay of money, time, and temper,  I
ll do my best to 
help you." 
"Thanks, Mother, you are always so kind." And away went Amy to lay her 
plan before her sisters. Meg agreed at once, and promised to her aid, gladly 
offering anything she possessed, from her little house itself to her very best 
244
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 saltspoons. But Jo frowned upon the whole project and would have nothing 
to do with it at first. 
"Why in the world should you spend your money, worry your family,  and 
turn the house upside down for a parcel of girls who don
 
said Jo, who, being called from the tragic climax of her novel, was not in the 
best mood for social enterprises. 

t truckle, and I hate being patronized as much as you do!" returned 
Amy indignantly, for the two still jangled when such questions arose. "The 
girls do care for me, and I for them, and there
t care to make people like you, to go into good society, 
and cultivate your manners and tastes. I do, and I mean to make the most 
of every chance that comes. You can go through the world with your elbows 
out and your nose in the air, and call it independence, if you like. That
 
When Amy had whetted her tongue and freed her mind she usually got the 
best of it, for she seldom failed to have common sense on her side, while Jo 
carried her love of liberty and hate of conventionalities to such an unlimited 
extent that she naturally found herself worsted in an argument. Amy's 
definition of Jo's idea of independence was such a good hit that both burst 
out laughing, and the discussion took a more amiable turn. Much against 
her will, Jo at length consented to sacrifice a day to Mrs. Grundy, and help 
her sister through what she regarded as `a nonsensical business'. 
The invitations were sent, nearly all accepted, and the following Monday was 
set apart for the grand event. Hannah was out of humor because her week's 
work was deranged, and prophesied that 
 and ironin
t 
done reg
 would go well anywheres". This hitch in the mainspring 
of the domestic machinery had a bad effect upon the whole concern, but 
Amy
, and having made up her mind what to 
do, she proceeded to do it in spite of all obstacles. To begin with, Hannah
t turn out well. The chicken was tough, the tongue too salt,  
and the chocolate wouldn
t make up its mind till it was too late for anyone else to make 
up theirs. Amy was up at dawn,  hustling people out of their beds and 
through their breakfasts, that the house might be got in order. The parlor 
struck her as looking uncommonly shabby, but without stopping to sigh for 
what she had not,  she skillfully made the best of what she had, arranging 
chairs over the worn places in the carpet, covering stains on the walls with 
homemade statuary, which gave an artistic air to the room, as did the lovely 
vases of flowers Jo scattered about. 
The lunch looked charming, and as she surveyed it, she sincerely hoped it 
would taste well, and that the borrowed glass, china, and silver would get 
safely home again. The carriages were promised, Meg and Mother were all 
ready to do the honors, Beth was able to help Hannah behind the scenes, Jo 
had engaged to be as lively and amiable as an absent mind, and aching 
head, and a very decided disapproval of everybody and everything would 
allow, and as she wearily dressed, Amy cheered herself with anticipations of 
the happy moment when, lunch safely over, she should drive away with her 
friends for an afternoon of artistic delights, for the `cherry bounce
No doubt about the weather today, they will certainly come, so we must fly 
round and be ready for them,
I can't get any lobsters, so you will have to do without salad today,
Use the chicken then, the toughness won't matter in a salad,
Hannah left it on the kitchen table a minute, and the kittens got at it. I'm 
very sorry, amy,
Then I must have a lobster, for tongue alone won't do,
Shall I rush into town and demand one?
You'd come bringing it home under your arm without any paper,  just to try 
me. I'll go myself,
Good morning, Miss 
March,
s most elegant college 
friends. Fervently hoping that he would get out before she did, Amy utterly 
ignored the basket at her feet, and congratulating herself that she had on 
her new traveling dress, returned the young man
s chief care was soon set at rest by learning 
that the gentleman would leave first, and she was chatting away in a 
peculiarly lofty strain, when the old lady got out. In stumbling to the door, 
she upset the basket, and--oh horror!--the lobster, in all its vulgar size and 
brilliancy, was revealed to the highborn eyes of a Tudor. 
"By Jove, she
 cried the unconscious youth, poking 
the scarlet monster into its place with his cane, and preparing to hand out 
the basket after the old lady. 

t--it
s mine," murmured Amy, with a face nearly as red as 
her fish. 
247
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Oh, really, I beg pardon. It
t it?" said Tudor, 
with great presence of mind, and an air of sober interest that did credit to 
his breeding. 
Amy recovered herself in a breath, set her basket boldly on the seat, and 
said, laughing, "Don
s 
going to make, and to see the charming young ladies who are to eat it?" 
Now that was tact, for two of the ruling foibles of the masculine mind were 
touched. The lobster was instantly surrounded by a halo of pleasing 
reminiscences, and curiosity about `the charming young ladies
I suppose he'll laugh and joke over it with Laurie, but I shan't see them, 
that's a comfort,
clock all was ready again. feeling that the neighbors were interested in her 
movements, she wished to efface the memory of yesterday
, and drove away in 
state to meet and escort her guests to the banquet. 
"There
re coming! I
 said Mrs. March, suiting the action to the word. But after one 
glance, she retired, with an indescribable expression, for looking quite lost 
in the big carriage, sat Amy and one young lady. 

 cried Jo, hurrying 
away to the lower regions, too excited to stop even for a laugh. 
In came Amy, quite calm and delightfully cordial to the one guest who had 
kept her promise. The rest of the family, being of a dramatic turn, played 
their parts equally well, and Miss Eliott found them a most hilarious set, for 
it was impossible to control entirely the merriment which possessed them. 
The remodeled lunch being gaily partaken of, the studio and garden visited, 
and art discussed with enthusiasm, Amy ordered a buggy (alas for the 
elegant cherry-bounce), and drove her friend quietly about the neighborhood 
till sunset, when `the party went out'. 
248
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 As she came walking in, looking very tired but as composed as ever, she 
observed that every vestige of the unfortunate fete had disappeared, except a 
suspicious pucker about the corners of Jo's mouth. 

ve had a loverly afternoon for your drive, dear," said her mother, as 
respectfully as if the whole twelve had come. 
"Miss Eliott is a very sweet girl, and seemed to enjoy herself,  I thought," 
observed Beth, with unusual warmth. 
"Could you spare me some of your cake? I really need some, I have so much 
company, and I can
 asked Meg 
soberly. 

m the only one here who likes sweet things, and it will mold 
before I can dispose of it," answered Amy, thinking with a sigh of the 
generous store she had laid in for such an end as this. 
"It
t here to help us," began Jo, as they sat down to ice 
cream and salad for the second time in two days. 
A warning look from her mother checked any further remarks, and the 
whole family ate in heroic silence, till Mr. March mildly observed,  "salad 
was one of the favorite dishes of the ancients, and Evelyn..." Here a general 
explosion of laughter cut short the `history of salads
Bundle everything into a basket and send it to the Hummels. Germans like 
messes. I'm sick of the sight of this, and there's no reason you should all die 
of a surfeit because I've been a fool,
I thought I 
should have died when I saw you two girls rattling about in the what-you
call-it, like two little kernels in a very big nutshell, and Mother waiting in 
state to receive the throng,
I'm very sorry you were disappointed, dear, but we all did our best to satisfy 
you,
I am satisfied. I've done what I undertook, and it's not my fault that it 
failed. I comfort myself with that,
I thank you all very much for helping me, and I'll thank you still more if you 
won't allude to it for a month, at least.
 always produced a general 
smile, and Laurie
, as she expressed it, writing away at 
her novel with all her heart and soul, for till that was finished she could find 
no peace. Her `scribbling suit
Does genius burn, Jo?
, hungry, sleepy, cross, or despondent. 
She was just recovering from one of these attacks when she was prevailed 
upon to escort Miss Crocker to a lecture, and in return for her virtue was 
rewarded with a new idea. It was a People
s Rights and making tatting. Beyond 
sat a pair of humble lovers, artlessly holding each other by the hand, a 
somber spinster eating peppermints out of a paper bag, and an old 
gentleman taking his preparatory nap behind a yellow bandanna. On her 
right, her only neighbor was a studious looking lad absorbed in a 
newspaper. 
It was a pictorial sheet, and Jo examined the work of art nearest her, idly 
wondering what fortuitous concatenation of circumstances needed the 
melodramatic illustration of an Indian in full war costume,  tumbling over a 
precipice with a wolf at his throat, while two infuriated young gentlemen, 
with unnaturally small feet and big eyes, were stabbing each other close by, 
and a disheveled female was flying away in the background with her mouth 
wide open. Pausing to turn a page,  the lad saw her looking and, with boyish 
good nature offered half his paper, saying bluntly, "want to read it? That
 
Jo accepted it with a smile, for she had never outgrown her liking for lads, 
and soon found herself involved in the usual labyrinth of love, mystery, and 
murder, for the story belonged to that class of light literature in which the 
passions have a holiday, and when the author's invention fails, a grand 
catastrophe clears the stage of one half the dramatis personae, leaving the 
other half to exult over their downfall. 

t it?" asked the boy, as her eye went down the last paragraph of 
her portion. 
"I think you and I could do as well as that if we tried," returned Jo, amused 
at his admiration of the trash. 
"I should think I was a pretty lucky chap if I could. She makes a good living 
out of such stories, they say." And he pointed to the name of Mrs. S.L.A.N.G. 
Northbury, under the title of the tale. 
"Do you know her?" asked Jo, with sudden interest. 
"No, but I read all her pieces, and I know a fellow who works in the office 
where this paper is printed." "Do you say she makes a good living out of 
251
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 stories like this?" And Jo looked more respectfully at the agitated group and 
thickly sprinkled exclamation points that adorned the page. 
"Guess she does! She knows just what folks like, and gets paid well for 
writing it." 
Here the lecture began, but Jo heard very little of it, for while Professor 
Sands was prosing away about Belzoni, Cheops, scarabei, and 
hieroglyphics, she was covertly taking down the address of the paper,  and 
boldly resolving to try for the hundred-dollar prize offered in its columns for 
a sensational story. By the time the lecture ended and the audience awoke, 
she had built up a splendid fortune for herself (not the first founded on 
paper), and was already deep in the concoction of her story, being unable to 
decide whether the duel should come before the elopement or after the 
murder. 
she said nothing of her plan at home, but fell to work next day,  much to the 
disquiet of her mother, who always looked a little anxious when `genius took 
to burning
t get the prize, which the writer 
hardly dared expect,  she would be very glad to receive any sum it might be 
considered worth. 
Six weeks is a long time to wait, and a still longer time for a girl to keep a 
secret, but Jo did both, and was just beginning to give up all hope of ever 
seeing her manuscript again,  when a letter arrived which almost took her 
breath away, for on opening it, a check for a hundred dollars fell into her 
lap. For a minute she stared at it as if it had been a snake, then she read 
her letter and began to cry. If the amiable gentleman who wrote that kindly 
note could have known what intense happiness he was giving a fellow 
creature, I think he would devote his leisure hours,  if he has any, to that 
amusement, for Jo valued the letter more than the money, because it was 
encouraging, and after years of effort it was so pleasant to find that she had 
learned to do something, though it was only to write a sensation story. 
252
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 A prouder young woman was seldom seen than she, when, having composed 
herself, she electrified the family by appearing before them with the letter in 
one hand, the check in the other, announcing that she had won the prize. Of 
course there was a great jubilee, and when the story came everyone read 
and praised it, though after her father had told her that the language was 
good, the romance fresh and hearty,  and the tragedy quite thrilling, he 
shook his head, and said in his unworldly way... 
"You can do better than this, Jo. Aim at the highest, and never mind the 
money." 
"I think the money is the best part of it. What will you do with such a 
fortune?" asked Amy, regarding the magic slip of paper with a reverential 
eye. 
"Send Beth and Mother to the seaside for a month or two," answered Jo 
promptly. 
To the seaside they went, after much discussion, and though Beth didn
 turned into comforts for them all. The Duke
s bill, A Phantom Hand put down a new carpet, and the 
Curse of the Coventrys proved the blessing of the Marches in the way of 
groceries and gowns. 
Wealth is certainly a most desirable thing, but poverty has its sunny side, 
and one of the sweet uses of adversity is the genuine satisfaction which 
comes from hearty work of head or hand, and to the inspiration of necessity, 
we owe half the wise, beautiful, and useful blessings of the world. Jo enjoyed 
a taste of this satisfaction,  and ceased to envy richer girls, taking great 
comfort in the knowledge that she could supply her own wants, and need 
ask no one for a penny. 
Little notice was taken of her stories, but they found a market,  and 
encouraged by this fact, she resolved to make a bold stroke for fame and 
fortune. Having copied her novel for the fourth time, read it to all her 
confidential friends, and submitted it with fear and trembling to three 
publishers, she at last disposed of it, on condition that she would cut it 
down one third, and omit all the parts which she particularly admired. 
253
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Now I must either bundle it back in to my tin kitchen to mold,  pay for 
printing it myself, or chop it up to suit purchasers and get what I can for it. 
Fame is a very good thing to have in the house,  but cash is more 
convenient, so I wish to take the sense of the meeting on this important 
subject," said Jo, calling a family council. 
"Don
 was her father's advice, 
and he practiced what he preached, having waited patiently thirty years for 
fruit of his own to ripen, and being in no haste to gather it even now when it 
was sweet and mellow. 

 
said Mrs. March. 
 

 said Jo, knitting her brows, 
s just it. I
t know whether it
 

t leave a word out of it. You
t explain as you go on," said Meg, who firmly 
believed that this book was the most remarkable novel ever written. 
"But Mr. Allen says, `Leave out the explanations, make it brief and dramatic, 
and let the characters tell the story
 interrupted Jo, turning to the 
publisher's note. 

t. Make a good, 
popular book, and get as much money as you can. By-and-by, when you
 said Amy, who took a strictly practical 
view of the subject. 

 said Jo, laughing, 
, 
it isn
ve got some of his wise ideas jumbled up with my 
romance, so much the better for me. Now, Beth, what do you say?" 
254
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "I should so like to see it printed soon," was all Beth said, and smiled in 
saying it. But there was an unconscious emphasis on the last word, and a 
wistful look in the eyes that never lost their childlike candor, which chilled 
Jo
. 
So, with Spartan firmness, the young authoress laid her first-born on her 
table, and chopped it up as ruthlessly as any ogre. In the hope of pleasing 
everyone, she took everyone
You said, Mother, that criticism would help me. But how can it, when it's so 
contradictory that I don't know whether I've written a promising book or 
broken all the ten commandments?
This man says, `An exquisite book, full of truth, 
beauty, and earnestness.  
All is sweet, pure, and healthy.'
The 
next, `The theory of the book is bad, full of morbid fancies, spiritualistic 
ideas, and unnatural characters.' Now, as I had no theory of any kind, don't 
believe in Spiritualism,  and copied my characters from life, I don't see how 
this critic can be right. Another says, `It's one of the best American novels 
which has appeared for years.' (I know better than that), and the next 
asserts that `Though it is original, and written with great force and feeling, it 
is a dangerous book.' 'Tisn't! Some make fun of it,  some overpraise, and 
nearly all insist that I had a deep theory to expound, when I only wrote it for 
255
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 the pleasure and the money. I wish I'd printed the whole or not at all, for I 
do hate to be so misjudged.
s best education, and 
when the first soreness was over, she could laugh at her poor little book, yet 
believe in it still, and feel herself the wiser and stronger for the buffeting she 
had received. 
"Not being a genius, like Keats, it won
 she said stoutly, 
ve 
got the joke on my side, after all, for the parts that were taken straight out 
of real life are denounced as impossible and absurd, and the scenes that I 
made up out of my own silly head are pronounced `charmingly natural, 
tender, and true
ll comfort myself with that, and when I
ll up 
again and take another." 
256
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT 
Like most other young matrons, Meg began her married life with the 
determination to be a model housekeeper. John should find home a 
paradise, he should always see a smiling face,  should fare sumptuously 
every day, and never know the loss of a button. She brought so much love, 
energy, and cheerfulness to the work that she could not but succeed, in 
spite of some obstacles. Her paradise was not a tranquil one, for the little 
woman fussed, was over-anxious to please, and bustled about like a true 
Martha, cumbered with many cares. She was too tired, sometimes, even to 
smile, John grew dyspeptic after a course of dainty dishes and ungratefully 
demanded plain fare. As for buttons, she soon learned to wonder where they 
went, to shake her head over the carelessness of men, and to threaten to 
make him sew them on himself, and see if his work would stand impatient 
and clumsy fingers any better than hers. 
They were very happy, even after they discovered that they couldn
s beauty diminished, though she beamed 
at him from behind the familiar coffee pot. Nor did Meg miss any of the 
romance from the daily parting, when her husband followed up his kiss with 
the tender inquiry, "Shall I send some veal or mutton for dinner, darling?" 
The little house ceased to be a glorified bower, but it became a home, and 
the young couple soon felt that it was a change for the better. At first they 
played keep-house, and frolicked over it like children. Then John took 
steadily to business, feeling the cares of the head of a family upon his 
shoulders, and Meg laid by her cambric wrappers, put on a big apron, and 
fell to work, as before said, with more energy than discretion. 
While the cooking mania lasted she went through Mrs. Cornelius
 was equal to anything, and took a 
natural pride in her skill, he resolved that she should be gratified, and their 
only crop of fruit laid by in a most pleasing form for winter use. Home came 
four dozen delightful little pots, half a barrel of sugar, and a small boy to 
pick the currants for her. With her pretty hair tucked into a little cap, arms 
bared to the elbow, and a checked apron which had a coquettish look in 
spite of the bib, the young housewife fell to work, feeling no doubts about 
her success, for hadn
t `jell
clock sat down in her topsy-turvey kitchen, wrung her bedaubed 
hands,  lifted up her voice and wept. 
Now, in the first flush of the new life, she had often said,  "My husband shall 
always feel free to bring a friend home whenever he likes. I shall always be 
prepared. There shall be no flurry, no scolding, no discomfort, but a neat 
house, a cheerful wife, and a good dinner. John, dear, never stop to ask my 
leave, invite whom you please, and be sure of a welcome from me." 
How charming that was, to be sure! John quite glowed with pride to hear 
her say it, and felt what a blessed thing it was to have a superior wife. But, 
although they had had company from time to time, it never happened to be 
unexpected, and Meg had never had an opportunity to distinguish herself 
till now. It always happens so in this vale of tears, there is an inevitability 
about such things which we can only wonder at, deplore, and bear as we 
best can. 
258
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 If John had not forgotten all about the jelly, it really would have been 
unpardonable in him to choose that day, of all the days in the year, to bring 
a friend home to dinner unexpectedly. Congratulating himself that a 
handsome repast had been ordered that morning,  feeling sure that it would 
be ready to the minute, and indulging in pleasant anticipations of the 
charming effect it would produce, when his pretty wife came running out to 
meet him, he escorted his friend to his mansion, with the irrepressible 
satisfaction of a young host and husband. 
It is a world of disappointments, as John discovered when he reached the 
Dovecote. the front door usually stood hospitably open. Now it was not only 
shut, but locked, and yesterday
I'm afraid something has happened. Step into the garden, Scott,  while I 
look up Mrs. Brooke,
My dearest girl, what is the matter?
Oh, John, I am so tired and hot and cross and worried! I've been at it till 
I'm all worn out. Do come and help me or I shall die!
What worries you dear? Has anything dreadful happened?
Yes,
Tell me quick, then. Don't cry. I can bear anything better than that. Out 
with it, love.
The...The jelly won't jell and I don't know what to do!
s woe. 
"Is that all? Fling it out of the window, and don
ll buy you quarts if you want it, but for heaven
t have hysterics, 
for I
 
John got no further, for Meg cast him off, and clasped her hands with a 
tragic gesture as she fell into a chair, exclaiming in a tone of mingled 
indignation, reproach, and dismay... 

 

s in the garden! I forgot the confounded jelly, but it can
 said John, surveying the prospect with an anxious eye. 

 continued Meg petulantly,  for even 
turtledoves will peck when ruffled. 

t know it this morning, and there was no time to send word, for I met 
him on the way out. I never thought of asking leave,  when you have always 
told me to do as I liked. I never tried it before, and hang me if I ever do 
again!" added John, with an aggrieved air. 
"I should hope not! Take him away at once. I can
t 
any dinner." 
"Well, I like that! Where
 cried John, rushing to the larder. 
t time to 
cook anything. I meant to dine at Mother
m sorry, but I was so busy," 
and Meg
s work to 
come home tired, hungry, and hopeful, to find a chaotic house, an empty 
table, and a cross wife was not exactly conductive to repose of mind or 
manner. He restrained himself however, and the little squall would have 
blown over, but for one unlucky word. 
"It
ll pull through 
and have a good time yet. Don
re both as hungry as hunters, so we shan
t ask 
for jelly." 
He meant it to be a good-natured joke, but that one word sealed his fate. 
Meg thought it was too cruel to hint about her sad failure,  and the last 
atom of patience vanished as he spoke. 
"You must get yourself out of the scrape as you can. I
 myself for anyone. It
t have anything of the sort in my house. Take 
that Scott up to Mother
m away, sick, dead, anything. I 
won
t have anything else here." And having delivered her defiance 
all on one breath, Meg cast away her pinafore and precipitately left the field 
to bemoan herself in her own room. 
What those two creatures did in her absence, she never knew,  but Mr. scott 
was not taken `up to Mother
, and when Meg descended,  after they had 
strolled away together, she found traces of a promiscuous lunch which filled 
her with horror. Lotty reported that they had eaten "a much, and greatly 
laughed, and the master bid her throw away all the sweet stuff, and hide the 
pots." 
Meg longed to go and tell Mother, but a sense of shame at her own short 
comings, of loyalty to John, "who might be cruel, but nobody should know 
it," restrained her, and after a summary cleaning up, she dressed herself 
prettily, and sat down to wait for John to come and be forgiven. 
Unfortunately, John didn
It wasn't fair to tell a man to bring folks home any time, with perfect 
261
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 freedom, and when he took you at your word, to flame up and blame him, 
and leave him in the lurch, to be laughed at or pitied. No, by George, it 
wasn't! And Meg must know it.
Poor 
little thing! It was hard upon her when she tried so heartily to please me. 
She was wrong, of course, but then she was young. I must be patient and 
teach her.
, and show him his 
duty. She longed to run to meet him, and beg pardon, and be kissed and 
comforted, as she was sure of being, but, of course, she did nothing of the 
sort, and when she saw John coming, began to hum quite naturally, as she 
rocked and sewed, like a lady of leisure in her best parlor. 
John was a little disappointed not to find a tender Niobe, but feeling that his 
dignity demanded the first apology, he made none,  only came leisurely in 
and laid himself upon the sofa with the singularly relevant remark, "We are 
going to have a new moon, my dear." 
"I
 was Meg's equally soothing remark. A few other topics of 
general interest were introduced by Mr. Brooke and wet-blanketed by Mrs. 
Brooke, and conversation languished. John went to one window, unfolded 
his paper, and wrapped himself in it,  figuratively speaking. Meg went to the 
other window, and sewed as if new rosettes for slippers were among the 
necessaries of life. Neither spoke. Both looked quite `calm and firm', and 
both felt desperately uncomfortable. 

 thought Meg, 
 The word `Mother' suggested other 
maternal counsels given long ago, and received with unbelieving protests. 

. Never deceive him by look or word, Meg, and he will give you the 
confidence you deserve, the support you need. He has a temper, not like 
262
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 ours--one flash and then all over--but the white, still anger that is seldom 
stirred, but once kindled is hard to quench. Be careful, be very careful, not 
to wake his anger against yourself, for peace and happiness depend on 
keeping his respect. Watch yourself, be the first to ask pardon if you both 
err, and guard against the little piques, misunderstandings,  and hasty 
words that often pave the way for bitter sorrow and regret." 
These words came back to Meg, as she sat sewing in the sunset,  especially 
the last. This was the first serious disagreement, her own hasty speeches 
sounded both silly and unkind, as she recalled them, her own anger looked 
childish now, and thoughts of poor John coming home to such a scene quite 
melted her heart. She glanced at him with tears in her eyes, but he did not 
see them. She put down her work and got up, thinking, "I will be the first to 
say, `Forgive me
t do it, 
then came the thought, This is the beginning.  I
 and stooping sown, she softly kissed her 
husband on the forehead. Of course that settled it. The penitent kiss was 
better than a world of words, and John had her on his knee in a minute, 
saying tenderly... 

 
But he did, oh bless you, yes, hundreds of times, and so did Meg, both 
declaring that it was the sweetest jelly they ever made,  for family peace was 
preserved in that little family jar. 
After this, Meg had Mr. Scott to dinner by special invitation,  and served him 
up a pleasant feast without a cooked wife for the first course, on which 
occasion she was so gay and gracious, and made everything go off so 
charmingly, that Mr. Scott told John he was a lucky fellow, and shook his 
head over the hardships of bachelorhood all the way home. 
In the autumn, new trials and experiences came to Meg. Sallie Moffat 
renewed her friendship, was always running out for a dish of gossip at the 
little house, or inviting `that poor dear' to come in and spend the day at the 
big house. It was pleasant, for in dull weather Meg often felt lonely. All were 
busy at home, John absent till night, and nothing to do but sew, or read, or 
potter about. So it naturally fell out that Meg got into the way of gadding 
and gossiping with her friend. Seeing Sallie's pretty things made her long for 
such, and pity herself because she had not got them. Sallie was very kind, 
263
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 and often offered her the coveted trifles, but Meg declined them, knowing 
that John wouldn't like it, and then this foolish little woman went and did 
what John disliked even worse. 
She knew her husband's income, and she loved to feel that he trusted her, 
not only with his happiness, but what some men seem to value more--his 
money. She knew where it was, was free to take what she liked, and all he 
asked was that she should keep account of every penny, pay bills once a 
month, and remember that she was a poor man's wife. Till now she had 
done well, been prudent and exact, kept her little account books neatly, and 
showed them to him monthly without fear. But that autumn the serpent got 
into Meg's paradise, and tempted her like many a modern Eve, not with 
apples, but with dress. Meg didn't like to be pitied and made to feel poor. It 
irritated her,  but she was ashamed to confess it, and now and then she 
tried to console herself by buying something pretty, so that Sallie needn't 
think she had to economize. She always felt wicked after it, for the pretty 
things were seldom necessaries, but then they cost so little, it wasn't worth 
worrying about, so the trifles increased unconsciously, and in the shopping 
excursions she was no longer a passive looker-on. 
But the trifles cost more than one would imagine, and when she cast up her 
accounts at the end of the month the sum total rather scared her. John was 
busy that month and left the bills to her, the next month he was absent, but 
the third he had a grand quarterly settling up, and Meg never forgot it. A few 
days before she had done a dreadful thing, and it weighed upon her 
conscience. Sallie had been buying silks, and Meg longed for a new one, just 
a handsome light one for parties, her black silk was so common, and thin 
things for evening wear were only proper for girls. Aunt March usually gave 
the sisters a present of twenty-five dollars apiece at New Year's. That was 
only a month to wait, and here was a lovely violet silk going at a bargain, 
and she had the money, if she only dared to take it. John always said what 
was his was hers, but would he think it right to spend not only the 
prospective five-and-twenty, but another five-and-twenty out of the 
household fund? That was the question. Sallie had urged her to do it, had 
offered to lend the money, and with the best intentions in life had tempted 
Meg beyond her strength. In an evil moment the shopman held up the 
lovely, shimmering folds, and said, 
am." She 
answered, "I
 and it was cut off and paid for, and Sallie had 
exulted, and she had laughed as if it were a thing of no consequence, and 
driven away, feeling as if she had stolen something, and the police were after 
her. 
264
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 When she got home, she tried to assuage the pangs of remorse by spreading 
forth the lovely silk, but it looked less silvery now,  didn't become her, after 
all, and the words `fifty dollars' seemed stamped like a pattern down each 
breadth. She put it away, but it haunted her, not delightfully as a new dress 
should, but dreadfully like the ghost of a folly that was not easily laid. When 
John got out his books that night, Meg's heart sank, and for the first time in 
her married life, she was afraid of her husband. The kind, brown eyes 
looked as if they could be stern, and though he was unusually merry, she 
fancied he had found her out, but didn't mean to let her know it. The house 
bills were all paid, the books all in order. John had praised her, and was 
undoing the old pocketbook which they called the `bank', when Meg, 
knowing that it was quite empty, stopped his hand, saying nervously... 

t seen my private expense book yet." 
John never asked to see it, but she always insisted on his doing so, and 
used to enjoy his masculine amazement at the queer things women wanted, 
and made him guess what piping was, demand fiercely the meaning of a 
hug-me-tight, or wonder how a little thing composed of three rosebuds, a bit 
of velvet, and a pair of strings, could possibly be a bonnet, and cost six 
dollars. That night he looked as if he would like the fun of quizzing her 
figures and pretending to be horrified at her extravagance, as he often did, 
being particularly proud of his prudent wife. 
The little book was brought slowly out and laid down before him. Meg got 
behind his chair under pretense of smoothing the wrinkles out of his tired 
forehead, and standing there, she said, with her panic increasing with every 
word . .. 
"John, dear, I
ve really been 
dreadfully extravagant lately. I go about so much I must have things, you 
know, and Sallie advised my getting it, so I did, and my New Year
d 
think it wrong in me." 
John laughed, and drew her round beside him, saying goodhumoredly, 
"Don
t beat you if you have got a pair of killing boots. 
I
s feet, and don
 
That had been one of her last `trifles', and John's eye had fallen on it as he 
spoke. 
 
thought Meg, with a shiver. 
265
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
s worse than boots, it
 she said, with the calmness of 
desperation, for she wanted the worst over. 

d total
 
That didn't sound like John, and she knew he was looking up at her with 
the straightforward look that she had always been ready to meet and answer 
with one as frank till now. She turned the page and her head at the same 
time, pointing to the sum which would have been bad enough without the 
fifty, but which was appalling to her with that added. For a minute the room 
was very still, then John said slowly--but she could feel it cost him an effort 
to express no displeasure--. . . 

t know that fifty is much for a dress, with all the furbelows and 
notions you have to have to finish it off these days." 
"It isn
 sighed Meg, faintly, for a sudden recollection of 
the cost still to be incurred quite overwhelmed her. 

ve no doubt my wife will look as fine as Ned Moffat
 
said John dryly. 

t help it. I don
t think those little things would count up so. I can
t. 
I try to be contented, but it is hard, and I
 
The last words were spoken so low she thought he did not hear them, but he 
did, and they wounded him deeply, for he had denied himself many 
pleasures for Meg's sake. She could have bitten her tongue out the minute 
she had said it, for John pushed the books away and got up, saying with a 
little quiver in his voice, 
 If he had 
scolded her, or even shaken her, it would not have broken her heart like 
those few words. She ran to him and held him close, crying, with repentant 
tears, 
t mean it! It was 
so wicked, so untrue and ungrateful, how could I say it! Oh, how could I say 
it!" He was very kind, forgave her readily, and did not utter one reproach, 
but Meg knew that she had done and said a thing which would not be 
forgotten soon, although he might never allude to it again. She had 
promised to love him for better or worse, and then she, his wife, had 
reproached him with his poverty, after spending his earnings recklessly. It 
was dreadful, and the worst of it was John went on so quietly afterward, just 
as if nothing had happened,  except that he stayed in town later, and 
266
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 worked at night when she had gone to cry herself to sleep. A week or 
remorse nearly made Meg sick, and the discovery that John had 
countermanded the order for his new greatcoat reduced her to a state of 
despair which was pathetic to behold. He had simply said, in answer to her 
surprised inquiries as to the change, "I can
 
Meg said no more, but a few minutes after he found her in the hall with her 
face buried in the old greatcoat, crying as if her heart would break. 
They had a long talk that night, and Meg learned to love her husband better 
for his poverty, because it seemed to have made a man of him, given him the 
strength and courage to fight his own way, and taught him a tender patience 
with which to bear and comfort the natural longings and failures of those he 
loved. 
Next day she put her pride in her pocket, went to Sallie, told the truth, and 
asked her to buy the silk as a favor. The good- natured Mrs. Moffat willingly 
did so, and had the delicacy not to make her a present of it immediately 
afterward. Then Meg ordered home the greatcoat, and when John arrived, 
she put it on, and asked him how he liked her new silk gown. One can 
imagine what answer he made, how he received his present, and what a 
blissful state of things ensued. John came home early, Meg gadded no more, 
and that greatcoat was put on in the morning by a very happy husband, and 
taken off at night by a most devoted little wife. So the year rolled round, and 
at midsummer there came to Meg a new experience, the deepest and 
tenderest of a woman's life. 
Laurie came sneaking into the kitchen of the Dovecote one Saturday, with 
an excited face, and was received with the clash of cymbals, for Hannah 
clapped her hands with a saucepan in one and the cover in the other. 

s the little mamma? Where is everybody? Why didn
 began Laurie in a loud whisper. 

. We 
didn
ll send 
`em down to you," with which somewhat involved reply Hannah vanished, 
chuckling ecstatically. 
Presently Jo appeared, proudly bearing a flannel bundle laid forth upon a 
large pillow. Jo
Shut your eyes and hold out your arms,
No, thank you. I'd rather not. I shall drop it or 
smash it, as sure as fate.
Then you shan't see your nevvy,
I will, I will! Only you must be responsible for damages.
Twins, by Jupiter!
Take `em 
quick, somebody! I'm going to laugh, and I shall drop `em.
It's the best joke of the season, isn't it? I wouldn't have told you, for I set 
my heart on surprising you, and I flatter myself I've done it,
I never was more staggered in my life. Isn't it fun? Are they boys? What are 
you going to name them? Let's have another look. Hold me up, Jo, for upon 
my life it's one too many for me,
Boy and girl. Aren't they beauties?
Most remarkable children I ever saw. Which is which?
Amy put a blue ribbon on the boy and a pink on the girl,  French fashion, 
so you can always tell. Besides, one has blue eyes and one brown. Kiss 
them, Uncle Teddy,
I'm afraid they mightn't like it,
Of course they will, they are used to it now. Do it this minute, sir!
There, I knew they didn't like it! That's the boy, see him kick, he hits out 
with his fists like a good one. Now then,  young Brooke, pitch into a man of 
your own size, will you?
He's to be named John Laurence, and the girl Margaret, after mother and 
grandmother. We shall call her Daisey, so as not to have two Megs, and I 
suppose the mannie will be Jack, unless we find a better name,
Name him Demijohn, and call him Demi for short,
Daisy and Demi, just the thing! I knew Teddy would do it,
 and `Demi
Come, Jo, it's time.
For what?
You don't mean to say you have forgotten that you promised to make half a 
dozen calls with me today?
I've done a good many rash and foolish things in my life,  but I don't think I 
ever was mad enough to say I'd make six calls in one day, when a single one 
upsets me for a week.
Yes, you did, it was a bargain between us. I was to finish the crayon of Beth 
for you, and you were to go properly with me,  and return our neighbors' 
visits.
If it was fair, that was in the bond, and I stand to the letter of my bond, 
Shylock. There is a pile of clouds in the east,  it's not fair, and I don't go.
Now, that's shirking. It's a lovely day, no prospect of rain,  and you pride 
yourself on keeping; promises, so be honorable, come and do your duty, and 
then be at peace for another six months.
Jo March, you are perverse enough to provoke a saint! You don't intend to 
make calls in that state, I hope,
Why not? I'm neat and cool and comfortable, quite proper for a dusty walk 
on a warm day. If people care more for my clothes than they do for me, I 
don't wish to see them. You can dress for both, and be as elegant as you 
please. It pays for you to be fine. It doesn't for me, and furbelows only worry 
me.
Oh, dear!
now she's in a contrary fit, and will drive me 
distracted before I can get her properly ready. I'm sure it's no pleasure to me 
www.freeclassicebooks.com 
 
 
 
271
 to go today, but it's a debt we owe society, and there's no one to pay it but 
you and me. I'll do anything for you, Jo, if you'll only dress yourself nicely,  
and come and help me do the civil. You can talk so well, look so aristocratic 
in your best things, and behave so beautifully,  if you try, that I'm proud of 
you. I'm afraid to go alone, do come and take care of me.
You're an artful little puss to flatter and wheedle your cross old sister in 
that way. The idea of my being aristocratic and well-bred, and your being 
afraid to go anywhere alone! I don't know which is the most absurd. Well, I'll 
go if I must,  and do my best. You shall be commander of the expedition, 
and I'll obey blindly, will that satisfy you?
You're a perfect cherub! Now put on all your best things,  and I'll tell you 
how to behave at each place, so that you will make a good impression. I 
want people to like you, and they would if you'd only try to be a little more 
agreeable. Do your hair the pretty way, and put the pink rose in your 
bonnet. It's becoming, and you look too sober in your plain suit. Take your 
light gloves and the embroidered handkerchief. We'll stop at Meg's, and 
borrow her white sunshade, and then you can have my dove-colored one.
I'm perfectly miserable, but if you consider me presentable,  I die happy.
You're highly satisfactory. turn slowly round, and let me get a careful view.
Yes, you'll do. Your head is all I 
could ask, for that white bonnet with the rose is quite ravishing. Hold back 
your shoulders, and carry your hands easily, no matter if your gloves do 
pinch. There's one thing you can do well, Jo, that is, wear a shawl. I can't, 
but it's very nice to see you, and I'm so glad Aunt March gave you that lovely 
one. It's simple, but handsome,  and those folds over the arm are really 
artistic. Is the point of my mantle in the middle, and have I looped my dress 
evenly? I like to show my boots, for my feet are pretty, though my nose 
isn't.
You are a thing of beauty and a joy forever,
Am I to drag my best dress through the dust, or loop it up, please, 
ma'am?
Hold it yup when you walk, but drop it in the house. The sweeping style 
suits you best, and you must learn to trail your skirts gracefully. You 
haven't half buttoned one cuff, do it at once. You'll never look finished if you 
are not careful about the little details, for they make yup the pleasing 
whole.
, Hannah said, as she hung out of the upper window to watch them. 
 
"Now, Jo dear, the Chesters consider themselves very elegant people, so I 
want you to put on your best deportment. Don
s 
safe and ladylike, and you can easily do it for fifteen minutes," said Amy, as 
they approached the first place, having borrowed the white parasol and been 
inspected by Meg,  with a baby on each arm. 
 
"Let me see. `Calm, cool, and quiet
ve 
played the part of a prim young lady on the stage, and I
 
 
Amy looked relieved, but naughty Jo took her at her word, for during the 
first call she sat with every limb gracefully composed,  every fold correctly 
draped, calm as a summer sea, cool as a snowbank, and as silent as the 
sphinx. In vain Mrs. Chester alluded to her `charming novel', and the Misses 
Chester introduced parties,  picnics, the opera, and the fashions. Each and 
all were answered by a smile, a bow, and a demure 
 or 
 with the 
chill on. In vain Amy telegraphed the word `talk', tried to draw her out, and 
administered covert pokes with her foot. Jo sat as if blandly unconcious of it 
all, with deportment like Maud's face, `icily regular, splendidly null'. 
 

 was the 
unfortunately audible remark of one of the ladies, as the door closed upon 
their guests. Jo laughed noiselessly all through the hall, but Amy looked 
disgusted at the failure of her instructions, and very naturally laid the blame 
upon Jo. 
 

s
t fail to make a 
good impression there for anything." 
 
www.freeclassicebooks.com 
 
 
 
273
 "I
ll gossip and giggle, and have horrors and raptures over 
any trifle you like. I rather enjoy this, and now I
. I can do it,  for I have May Chester as a model, and I
t say, `What a lively, nice creature 
that Jo March is!" 
 
Amy felt anxious, as well she might, for when Jo turned freakish there was 
no knowing where she would stop. Amy
s last attack, while three delightful young gentlemen hovered 
near,  waiting for a pause when they might rush in and rescue her. So 
situated, she was powerless to check Jo, who seemed possessed by a spirit 
of mischief, and talked away as volubly as the lady. A knot of heads 
gathered about her, and Amy strained her ears to hear what was going on, 
for broken sentences filled her with curiosity,  and frequent peals of laughter 
made her wild to share the fun. One may imagine her suffering on 
overhearing fragments of this sort of conversation. 
 
"She rides splendidly. who taught her?" 
 
"No one. She used to practice mounting, holding the reins, and sitting 
straight on an old saddle in a tree. Now she rides anything,  for she doesn
 
 
At this awful speech Amy contained herself with difficulty, for the 
impression was being given that she was rather a fast young lady,  which 
was her especial aversion. But what could she do? For the old lady was in 
the middle of her story, and long before it was done,  Jo was off again, make 
more droll revelations and committing still more fearful blunders. 
 

t it?" 
 
"Which did she choose?" asked one of the laughing gentlemen,  who enjoyed 
the subject. 
 
"None of them. She heard of a young horse at the farm house over the river, 
and though a lady had never ridden him, she resolved to try, because he 
was handsome and spirited. Her struggles were really pathetic. There was 
www.freeclassicebooks.com 
 
 
 
274
 no one to bring the horse to the saddle, so she took the saddle to the horse. 
My dear creature, she actually rowed it over the river, put it on her head, 
and marched up to the barn to the utter amazement of the old man!" 
"Did she ride the horse?
Of course she did, and had a capital time. I expected to see her brought 
home in fragments, but she managed him perfectly, and was the life of the 
party.
Well, I call that plucky!
Oh, Amy 
painted it. You can't buy those soft shades, so we paint ours any color we 
like. It's a great comfort to have an artistic sister.
Isn't that an original idea?
That's nothing compared to some of her brilliant performances. There's 
nothing the child can't do. Why, she wanted a pair of blue boots for Sallie's 
party, so she just painted her soiled white ones the loveliest shade of sky 
blue you ever saw, and they looked exactly like satin,
s accomplishments that exasperated Amy till she felt 
that it would be a relief to throw her cardcase at her. 
 
"We read a story of yours the other day, and enjoyed it very much," observed 
the elder Miss Lamb, wishing to compliment the literary lady, who did not 
look the character just then, it must be confessed. 
 
Any mention of her `works
Sorry you could find nothing better to read. I write that 
rubbish because it sells, and ordinary people like it. Are you going to New 
York this winter?' 
 
As Miss Lamb had `enjoyed' the story, this speech was not exactly grateful 
or complimentary. The minute it was made Jo saw her mistake, but fearing 
to make the matter worse, suddenly remembered that it was for her to make 
the first move toward departure,  and did so with an abruptness that left 
three people with half- finished sentences in their mouths. 
 
www.freeclassicebooks.com 
 
 
 
275
 
t dare to ask you, Mr. Lamb, but if you should come, I don
 
 
Jo said this with such a droll imitation of May Chester's gushing style that 
Amy got out of the room as rapidly as possible, feeling a strong desire to 
laugh and cry at the same time. 
 

t I do well?" asked Jo, with a satisfied air as they walked away. 
 
"Nothing could have been worse," was Amy
What 
possessed you to tell those stories about my saddle, and the hats and boots, 
and all the rest of it?
Why, it's funny, and amuses people. They know we are poor, so it's no use 
pretending that we have grooms, buy three or four hats a season, and have 
things as easy and fine as they do.
You needn't go and tell them all our little shifts, and expose our; poverty in 
that perfectly unnecessary way. You haven't a bit of proper pride, and never 
will learn when to hold your tongue and when to speak,
How shall I behave here?
Just as you please. I wash my hands of you,
s short answer. 
"Then I
ll have a comfortable 
time. Goodness knows I need a little change, for elegance has a bad effect 
upon my constitution," returned Jo gruffly,  being disturbed by her failure to 
suit. 
An enthusiastic welcome from three big boys and several pretty children 
speedily soothed her ruffled feelings, and leaving Amy to entertain the 
hostess and Mr. Tudor, who happened to be calling likewise, Jo devoted 
herself to the young folks and found the change refreshing. She listened to 
college stories with deep interest, caressed pointers and poodles without a 
murmur, agreed heartily that "Tom Brown was a brick," regardless of the 
improper form of praise, and when one lad proposed a visit to his turtle 
tank,  she went with an alacrity which caused Mamma to smile upon her, as 
that motherly lady settled the cap which was left in a ruinous condition by 
filial hugs, bearlike but affectionate, and dearer to her than the most 
faultless coiffure from the hands of an inspired Frenchwoman. 
 
Leaving her sister to her own devices, Amy proceeded to enjoy herself to her 
heart
s uncle had married an English lady who was 
www.freeclassicebooks.com 
 
 
 
276
 third cousin to a living lord, and Amy regarded the whole family with great 
respect, for in spite of her American birth and breeding, she possessed that 
reverence for titles which haunts the best of us--that unacknowledged 
loyalty to the early faith in kings which set the most democratic nation 
under the sun in ferment at the coming of a royal yellow-haired laddie, some 
years ago, and which still has something to do with the love the young 
country bears the old, like that of a big son for an imperious little mother, 
who held him while she could, and let him go with a farewell scolding when 
he rebelled. But even the satisfaction of talking with a distant connection of 
the British nobility did not render Amy forgetful of time, and when the 
proper number of minutes had passed, she reluctantly tore herself from this 
aristocratic society, and looked about for Jo, fervently hoping that her 
incorrigible sister would not be found in any position which should bring 
disgrace upon the name of March. 
 
It might have been worse, but Amy considered it bad. For Jo sat on the 
grass, with an encampment of boys about her, and a dirty-footed dog 
reposing on the skirt of her state and festival dress, as she related one of 
Laurie
s cherished parasol, a second was eating gingerbread over 
Jo
It was such fun to 
hear about Laurie's larks.
Capital boys, aren't they? I feel quite young and brisk again after that.
Why do you always avoid Mr. Tudor?
s dilapidated appearance. 
 
"Don
t speak respectfully of his mother. Laurie says he is fast, and I don
 
 

 said Amy reprovingly. 
 

t," returned Jo, "I neither like, respect, nor admire Tudor, 
though his grandfather
s nephew
 
 
www.freeclassicebooks.com 
 
 
 
277
 
s no use trying to argue with you," began Amy. 
 
"Not the least, my dear," interrupted Jo, "so let us look amiable, and drop a 
card here, as the Kings are evidently out,  for which I
 
 
The family cardcase having done its duty the girls walked on, and Jo uttered 
another thanksgiving on reaching the fifth house, and being told that the 
young ladies were engaged. 
 

s really a pity to trail through the dust in our best 
bibs and tuckers, when we are tired and cross." 
 
"Speak for yourself, if you please. Aunt March likes to have us pay her the 
compliment of coming in style, and making a formal call. It
t believe it will hurt your things half 
so much as letting dirty dogs and clumping boys spoil them. Stoop down, 
and let me take the crumbs off of your bonnet." 
 
"What a good girl you are, Amy!" said Jo, with a repentant glance from her 
own damaged costume to that of her sister, which was fresh and spotless 
still. "I wish it was as easy for me to do little things to please people as it is 
for you. I think of them,  but it takes too much time to do them, so I wait for 
a chance to confer a great favor, and let the small ones slip, but they tell 
best in the end, I fancy." 
 
Amy smiled and was mollified at once, saying with a maternal air, "Women 
should learn to be agreeable, particularly poor ones,  for they have no other 
way of repaying the kindnesses they receive. If you
d be better liked than I am, because there is more of you." 
 
"I
m willing to own that 
you are right, only it
t feel like it. It
t it?" 
 
"It
t mind saying that I don
m not called upon to tell him 
so. Neither are you, and there is no use in making yourself disagreeable 
because he is." 
 
"But I think girls ought to show when they disapprove of young men, and 
how can they do it except by their manners? Preaching does not do any 
good, as I know to my sorrow, since I
 
 
www.freeclassicebooks.com 
 
 
 
278
 
t be taken as a sample of other boys," 
said Amy, in a tone of solemn conviction, which would have convulsed the 
`remarkable boy
If we were belles, or women of wealth 
and position, we might do something, perhaps, but for us to frown at one set 
of young gentlemen because we don't approve of them, and smile upon 
another set because we do, wouldn't have a particle of effect, and we should 
only be considered odd and puritanical.
So we are to countenance things and people which we detest,  merely 
because we are not belles and millionaires, are we? That's a nice sort of 
morality.
I can't argue about it, I only know that it's the way of the world, and people 
who set themselves against it only get laughed at for their pains. I don't like 
reformers, and I hope you never try to be one.
I do like them, and I shall be one if I can, for in spite of the laughing the 
world would never get on without them. We can't agree about that. for you 
belong to the old set, and I to the new. You will get on the best, but I shall 
have the liveliest time of it. I should rather enjoy the brickbats and hooting, 
I think.
Well, compose yourself now, and don't worry Aunt with your new ideas.
I'll try not to, but I'm always possessed to burst out with some particularly 
blunt speech or revolutionary sentiment before her. It's my doom, and I 
can't help it.
 her affectionately, looking what they afterward 
said emphatically, "That child improves every day." 
 
"Are you going to help about the fair, dear?" asked Mrs. Carrol,  as Amy sat 
down beside her with the confiding air elderly people like so well in the 
young. 
 
"Yes, Aunt. Mrs. Chester asked me if I would, and I offered to tend a table, 
as I have nothing but my time to give." 
 
"I
 put in Jo decidedly. 
s a great favor to allow us to help with their highly connected fair. I 
wonder you consented, Amy, they only want you to work." 
www.freeclassicebooks.com 
 
 
 
279
 
"I am willing to work. It
 
 

s a pleasure to 
help people who appreciate our efforts. Some do not, and that is trying," 
observed Aunt March, looking over her spectacles at Jo, who sat apart, 
rocking herself, with a somewhat morose expression. 
 
If Jo had only known what a great happiness was wavering in the balance 
for one of them, she would have turned dove-like in a minute, but 
unfortunately, we don
I don't like favors, they oppress and make me feel like a slave. I'd rather do 
everything for myself, and be perfectly independent.
Ahem!
I told you so,
Do you speak French, dear?
s. 
 
"Pretty well, thanks to Aunt March, who lets Esther talk to me as often as I 
like," replied amy, with a grateful look, which caused the old lady to smile 
affably. 
"How are you about languages?" asked Mrs. Carrol of JO. 
 
"Don
m very stupid about studying anything,  can
s such a slippery, silly sort of language," was the brusque reply. 
 
Another look passed between the ladies, and Aunt March said to Amy, 
t trouble you any 
more, do they?" 
 
"Not at all, thank you, ma
m very well, and mean to do great things 
next winter, so that I may be ready for Rome, whenever that joyful time 
arrives." 
 
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Good girl! You deserve to go, and I
 said Aunt 
March, with an approving; pat on the head, as Amy picked up her ball for 
her. 
Crosspatch, draw the latch,  Sit by the fire and spin,  
squalled Polly, bending down from his perch on the back of her chair to peep 
into Jo's face, with such a comical air of impertinent inquiry that it was 
impossible to help laughing. 

 said the old lady. 

 cried Polly, hopping toward the china 
closet, with a look suggestive of a lump of sugar. 

 And Jo brought the visit to an end, feeling 
more strongly than ever that calls did have a bad effect upon her 
constitution. She shook hands in a gentlemanly manner, but Amy kissed 
both the aunts, and the girls departed,  leaving behind them the impression 
of shadow and sunshine, which impression caused Aunt March to say, as 
they vanished... 

d better do it, Mary. I
I certainly will, if her father and mother consent.
s fair was so very elegant and select that it was considered a 
great honor by the young ladies of the neighborhood to be invited to take a 
table, and everyone was much interest in the matter. Amy was asked, but Jo 
was not, which was fortunate for all parties, as her elbows were decidedly 
akimbo at this period of her life, and it took a good many hard knocks to 
teach her how to get on easily. The `haughty, uninteresting creature
s talent and taste were duly complimented by the 
offer of the art table, and she exerted herself to prepare and secure 
appropriate and valuable contributions to it. 
Everything went on smoothly till the day before the fair opened, then there 
occurred one of the little skirmishes which it is almost impossible to avoid, 
when some five-and-twenty women, old and young, with all their private 
piques and prejudices, try to work together. 
May Chester was rather jealous of Amy because the latter was a greater 
favorite than herself, and just at this time several trifling circumstances 
occurred to increase the feeling. Amy
s painted vases--that was one thorn. Then the all conquering 
Tudor had danced four times with Amy at a late party and only once with 
May--that was thorn number two. But the chief grievance that rankled in 
her soul, and gave an excuse for her unfriendly conduct, was a rumor which 
some obliging gossip had whispered to her, that the March girls had made 
fun of her at the Lambs
s dismay can be imagined, when, 
the very evening before the fair, as she was putting the last touches to her 
pretty table, Mrs. Chester,  who, of course, resented the supposed ridicule of 
her daughter,  said, in a bland tone, but with a cold look... 
"I find, dear, that there is some feeling among the young ladies about my 
giving this table to anyone but my girls. As this is the most prominent, and 
some say the most attractive table of all, and they are the chief getters-up of 
the fair, it is thought best for them to take this place. I
 
Mrs. Chester fancied beforehand that it would be easy to deliver this little 
speech, but when the time came, she found it rather difficult to utter it 
281
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 naturally, with Amy's unsuspicious eyes looking straight at her full of 
surprise and trouble. 

Perhaps you had 
rather I took no table at all?
Now, my dear, don't have any ill feeling, I beg. It's merely a matter of 
expediency, you see, my girls will naturally take the lead, and this table is 
considered their proper place. I think it very appropriate to you, and feel 
very grateful for your efforts to make it so pretty, but we must give up our 
private wishes, of course, and I will see that you have a good place 
elsewhere. Wouldn't you like the flower table? The little girls undertook it, 
but they are discouraged. You could make a charming thing of it, and the 
flower table is always attractive you know.
Especially to gentlemen,
It shall be as you please, Mrs. Chester. I'll give up my place here at once, 
and attend to the flowers, if you like.
You can put your own things on your own table, if you prefer,
Oh, certainly, if they are in your way,
Now she's mad. Oh, dear, I wish I hadn't asked you to speak, Mama,
Girls' quarrels are soon over,
t stay firm after she got it up, but wiggled and 
threatened to tumble down on her head when the hanging baskets were 
filled. Her best tile got a splash of water, which left a sephia tear on the 
Cupid
t go to the fair at all,  and Jo demanded why she didn
Because they are mean is no reason why i should be. I hate such things, 
and though I think I've a right to be hurt, I don't intend to show it. They will 
feel that more than angry speeches or huffy actions, won't they, Marmee?
That's the right spirit, my dear. A kiss for a blow is always best, though it's 
not very easy to give it sometimes,
Thou shalt love thy 
neighbor as thyself.
I ought, but I don't,
s discontented face behind the big vases, that could not hide the 
vacancies her pretty work had once filled. Amy stood a minute, turning the 
leaves in her hand, reading on each some sweet rebuke for all heartburnings 
and uncharitableness of spirit. Many wise and true sermons are preached 
283
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 us every day by unconscious ministers in street, school, office, or home. 
Even a fair table may become a pulpit, if it can offer the good and helpful 
words which are never out of season. Amy
s table, admiring the pretty things, 
and talking over the change of saleswomen. They dropped their voices, but 
Amy knew they were speaking of her, hearing one side of the story and 
judging accordingly. It was not pleasant, but a better spirit had come over 
her, and presently a chance offered for proving it. She heard May say 
sorrowfully... 
"It
t want to 
fill up with odds and ends. The table was just complete then. Now it
 

d put them back if you asked her," suggested someone. 
"How could I after all the fuss?" began May, but she did not finish, for Amy
You may have them, and welcome, without asking, if you want them. I was 
just thinking I'd offer to put them back, for they belong to your table rather 
than mine. Here they are, please take them, and forgive me if I was hasty in 
carrying them away last night.
Now, I call that lovely of her, don't you?
s answer was inaudible, but another young lady, whose temper was 
evidently a little soured by making lemonade, added,  with a disagreeable 
laugh, "Very lovely, for she knew she wouldn
 
Now, that was hard. When we make little sacrifices we like to have them 
appreciated, at least, and for a minute Amy was sorry she had done it, 
feeling that virtue was not always its won reward. But it is, as she presently 
discovered, for her spirits began to rise, and her table to blossom under her 
skillful hands, the girls were very kind, and that one little act seemed to 
have cleared the atmosphere amazingly. 
284
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 It was a very long day and a hard one for Amy, as she sat behind her table, 
often quite alone, for the little girls deserted very soon. Few cared to buy 
flowers in summer, and her bouquets began to droop long before night. 
The art table was the most attractive in the room. There was a crowd about 
it all day long, and the tenders were constantly flying to and fro with 
important faces and rattling money boxes. Amy often looked wistfully 
across, longing to be there, where she felt at home and happy, instead of in 
a corner with nothing to do. It might seem no hardship to some of us, but to 
a pretty, blithe young girl, it was not only tedious, but very trying, and the 
thought of Laurie and his friends made it a real martyrdom. 
She did not go home till night, and then she looked so pale and quiet that 
they knew the day had been a hard one, though she made no complaint, 
and did not even tell what she had done. Her mother gave her an extra 
cordial cup of tea. Beth helped her dress,  and made a charming little 
wreath for her hair, while Jo astonished her family by getting herself up with 
unusual care, and hinting darkly that the tables were about to be turned. 

t do anything rude, pray Jo. I won
 begged Amy, as she departed early, hoping to 
find a reinforcement of flowers to refresh her poor little table. 

ll have a good time yet." returned Jo, leaning over the 
gate to watch for Laurie. Presently the familiar tramp was heard in the dusk, 
and she ran out to meet him. 
"Is that my boy?" 
"As sure as this is my girl!" And Laurie tucked her hand under his arm with 
the air of a man whose every wish was gratified. 
"Oh, teddy, such doings!" And Jo told Amy
A flock of our fellows are going to drive over by-and-by, and I'll be hanged if 
I don't make them buy every flower she's got, and camp down before her 
table afterward,
The flowers are not at all nice, Amy says, and the fresh ones may not arrive 
in time. I don't wish to be unjust or suspicious, but I shouldn't wonder if 
they never came at all. When people do one mean thing they are very likely 
to do another,
Didn't Hayes give you the best out of our gardens? I told him to.
I didn't know that, he forgot, I suppose, and, as your grandpa was poorly, I 
didn't like to worry him by asking, though I did want some.
Now, Jo, how could you think there was any need of asking? They are just 
as much yours as mine. Don't we always go halves in everything?
Gracious, I hope not! Half of some of your things wouldn't suit me at all. 
But we mustn't stand philandering here. I've got to help Amy, so you go and 
make yourself splendid, and if you'll be so very kind as to let Hayes take a 
few nice flowers up to the Hall, I'll bless you forever.
Couldn't you do it now?
Go away, 
Teddy, I'm busy.
s taste, and apparently enjoying 
themselves very much. Laurie and his friends gallantly threw themselves 
into the breach, bought up the bouquets, encamped before the table, and 
made that corner the liveliest spot in the room. Amy was in her element 
now, and out of gratitude, if nothing more, was as spritely and gracious as 
possible, coming to the conclusion, about that time, that virtue was it
s things, but saw no sign of them. "Tucked away out of sight, I dare 
say," thought Jo, who could forgiver her own wrongs, but hotly resented any 
insult offered her family. 
"Good evening, Miss Jo. How does Amy get on?" asked May with a 
conciliatory air, for she wanted to show that she also could be generous. 
286
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "She has sold everything she had that was worth selling, and now she is 
enjoying herself. The flower table is always attractive,  you know, `especially 
to gentlemen
 
Jo couldn't resist giving that little slap, but May took it so meekly she 
regretted it a minute after, and fell to praising the great vases, which still 
remained unsold. 

s illumination anywhere about" I took a fancy to buy that for 
Father," said Jo, very anxious to learn the fate of her sister
Everything of Amy's sold long ago. I took care that the right people saw 
them, and they made a nice little sum of money for us,
s word and manner. 
"Now, gentlemen, I want you to go and do your duty by the other tables as 
generously as you have by mine, especially the art table," she said, ordering 
out `Teddy
, as the girls called the college friends. 
"`Charge, Chester, charge!
ll get your money
 
said the irrepressible Jo, as the devoted phalanx prepared to take the field. 

 said little Parker, 
making a frantic effort to be both witty and tender,  and getting promptly 
quenched by Laurie, who said... 

 and walked him off, with a paternal pat 
on the head. 

 whispered Amy to Laurie, as a final heaping of coals of fire 
on her enemy's head. 
To May's great delight, Mr. Laurence not only bought the vases,  but 
pervaded the hall with one under each arm. The other gentlemen speculated 
with equal rashness in all sorts of frail trifles, and wandered helplessly 
about afterward, burdened with wax flowers,  painted fans, filigree 
portfolios, and other useful and appropriate purchases. 
Aunt Carrol was there, heard the story, looked pleased, and said something 
to Mrs. March in a corner, which made the latter lady beam with 
287
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 satisfaction, and watch Amy with a face full of mingled pride and anxiety, 
though she did not betray the cause of her pleasure till several days later. 
The fair was pronounced a success, and when May bade Amy goodnight, she 
did not gush as usual, but gave her an affectionate kiss, and a look which 
said `forgive and forget'. That satisfied Amy, and when she got home she 
found the vases paraded on the parlor chimney piece with a great bouquet 
in each. 
 as Laurie 
announced with a flourish. 

ve a deal more principle and generosity and nobleness of character 
than I ever gave you credit for, Amy. You
 said Jo warmly, as they brushed their hair together 
late that night. 

t believe I could have done it as kindly as you did," 
added Beth from her pillow. 
"Why, girls, you needn
d be done by. You laugh 
at me when I say I want to be a lady, but I mean a true gentlewoman in 
mind and manners, and I try to do it as far as I know how. I can
m far from it now, but I do my best, and hope 
in time to be what Mother is." 
Amy spoke earnestly, and Jo said, with a cordial hug, "I understand now 
what you mean, and I
ll take lessons of you in true politeness, for you
ll get your reward some 
day, and no one will be more delighted than I shall." 
A week later Amy did get her reward, and poor Jo found it hard to be 
delighted. A letter came from Aunt Carrol, and Mrs. March
Aunt Carrol is going abroad next month, and wants...
Me to go with her!
No, dear, not you. It's Amy.
Oh, Mother! She's too young, it's my turn first. I've wanted it so long. It 
would do me so much good, and be so altogether splendid. I must go!
I'm afraid it's impossible, Jo. Aunt says Amy, decidedly,  and it is not for us 
to dictate when she offers such a favor.
It's always so. Amy has all the fun and I have all the work. It isn't fair, oh, it 
isn't fair!
I'm afraid it's partly your own fault, dear. When Aunt spoke to me the other 
day, she regretted your blunt manners and too independent spirit, and here 
she writes, as if quoting something you had said--`I planned at first to ask 
Jo, but as `favors burden her',  and she `hates French', I think I won't 
venture to invite her. Amy is more docile, will make a good companion for 
Flo, and receive gratefully any help the trip may give her.
Oh, my tongue, my abominable tongue! Why can't I learn to keep it quiet?' 
groaned Jo, remembering words which had been her undoing. When she 
had heard the explanation of the quoted phrases, Mrs. March said 
sorrowfully... 

t sadden Amy
 

ll try," said Jo, winking hard as she knelt down to pick up the basket she 
had joyfully upset. "I
t 
be easy, for it is a dreadful disappointment." And poor Jo bedewed the little 
fat pincushion she held with several very bitter tears. "Jo, dear, I
t spare you, and I
 
whispered Beth, embracing her, basket and all, with such a clinging touch 
and loving face that Jo felt comforted in spite of the sharp regret that made 
her want to box her own ears, and humbly beg Aunt Carrol to burden her 
with this favor, and see how gratefully she would bear it. 
By the time Amy came in, Jo was able to take her part in the family 
jubilation, not quite as heartily as usual, perhaps,  but without repinings at 
Amy's good fortune. The young lady herself received the news as tidings of 
great joy, went about in a solemn sort of rapture, and began to sort her 
colors and pack her pencils that evening, leaving such trifles as clothes,  
money, and passports to those less absorbed in visions of art than herself. 
289
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
t a mere pleasure trip to me, girls," she said impressively, as she 
scraped her best palette. "It will decide my career, for if I have any genius, I 
shall find it out in Rome,  and will do something to prove it." 
"Suppose you haven
 said Jo, sewing away, with red eyes,  at the new 
collars which were to be handed over to Amy. 

 replied the 
aspirant for fame, with philosophic composure. But she made a wry face at 
the prospect, and scratched away at her palette as if bent on vigorous 
measures before she gave up her hopes. 

t. You hate hard work, and you
 said Jo. 

t believe that one will. 
I
t be an artist myself, I should like to be 
able to help those who are," said Amy, smiling, as if the part of Lady 
Bountiful would suit her better than that of a poor drawing teacher. 
"Hum!" said Jo, with a sigh. "If you wish it you
 

 asked Amy, thoughtfully patting her nose with her 
knife. 

 

ll send for you, and we
ve made so many times." 
"Thank you. I
 returned Jo, accepting the vague but magnificent offer as 
gratefully as she could. 
t cry any more. Amy likewise bore up stoutly till the 
steamer sailed. Then just as the gangway was about to be withdrawn, it 
suddenly came over her that a whole ocean was soon to roll between her and 
those who loved her best, and she clung to Laurie, the last lingerer, saying 
with a sob... 
"Oh, take care of them for me, and if anything should happen... " 
290
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "I will, dear, I will, and if anything happens, I
 
whispered Laurie, little dreaming that he would be called upon to keep his 
word. 
So Amy sailed away to find the Old World, which is always new and 
beautiful to young eyes, while her father and friend watched her from the 
shore, fervently hoping that none but gentle fortunes would befall the 
happy-hearted girl, who waved her hand to them till they could see nothing 
but the summer sunshine dazzling on the sea. 
291
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE 
London 
Dearest People,  Here I really sit at a front window of the Bath Hotel,  
Piccadilly. It's not a fashionable place, but Uncle stopped here years ago, 
and won't go anywhere else. However, we don't mean to stay long, so it's no 
great matter. Oh, I can't begin to tell you how I enjoy it all! I never can, so I'll 
only give you bits out of my notebook, for I've done nothing but sketch and 
scribble since I started. 
I sent a line from Halifax, when I felt pretty miserable,  but after that I got 
on delightfully, seldom ill, on deck all day, with plenty of pleasant people to 
amuse me. Everyone was very kind to me, especially the officers. Don't 
laugh, Jo, gentlemen really are very necessary aboard ship, to hold on to, or 
to wait upon one, and as they have nothing to do, it's a mercy to make them 
useful, otherwise they would smoke themselves to death,  I'm afraid. 
Aunt and Flo were poorly all the way, and liked to be let alone, so when I 
had done what I could for them, I went and enjoyed myself. Such walks on 
deck, such sunsets, such splendid air and waves! It was almost as exciting 
as riding a fast horse,  when we went rushing on so grandly. I wish Beth 
could have come,  it would have done her so much good. As for Jo, she 
would have gone up and sat on the maintop jib, or whatever the high thing 
is called, made friends with the engineers, and tooted on the captain's 
speaking trumpet, she'd have been in such a state of rapture. 
It was all heavenly, but I was glad to see the Irish coast,  and found it very 
lovely, so green and sunny, with brown cabins here and there, ruins on 
some of the hills, and gentlemen's countryseats in the valleys, with deer 
feeding in the parks. It was early in the morning, but I didn't regret getting 
up to see it, for the bay was full of little boats, the shore so picturesque, and 
a rosy sky overhead. I never shall forget it. 
At Queenstown on of my new acquaintances left us, Mr. Lennox, and when I 
said something about the Lakes of Killarney,  he sighed and and, with a look 
at me... 

er heard of Kate Kearney? She lives on the banks of 
Killarney; From the glance of her eye,  Shun danger and fly,  For fatal
 
Wasn't that nonsensical? 
292
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 We only stopped at Liverpool a few hours. It's a dirty,  noisy place, and I was 
glad to leave it. Uncle rushed out and bought a pair of dogskin gloves, some 
ugly, thick shoes, and an umbrella, and got shaved `a la mutton chop, the 
first thing. Then he flattered himself that he looked like a true Briton,  but 
the first time he had the mud cleaned off his shoes, the little bootblack knew 
that an American stood in them, and said,  with a grin, 
ve given `em the latest Yankee shine." It amused Uncle immensely. Oh, I 
must tell you what that absurd Lennox did! He got his friend Ward, who 
came on with us, to order a bouquet for me, and the first thing I saw in my 
room was a lovely one, with "Robert Lennox
 on the card. 
Wasn't that fun, girls? I like traveling. 
I never shall get to London if I don't hurry. The trip was like riding through a 
long picture gallery, full of lovely landscapes.  The farmhouses were my 
delight, with thatched roofs,  ivy up to the eaves, latticed windows, and 
stout women with rosy children at the doors. The very cattle looked more 
tranquil than ours, as they stood knee-deep in clover, and the hens had a 
contented cluck, as if they never got nervous like Yankee biddies. Such 
perfect color I never saw, the grass so green, sky so blue, grain so yellow, 
woods so dark, I was in a rapture all the way. So was Flo, and we kept 
bouncing from one side to the other, trying to see everything while we were 
whisking along at the rate of sixty miles an hour. Aunt was tired and went to 
sleep,  but Uncle read his guidebook, and wouldn't be astonished at 
anything.  This is the way we went on. Amy, flying up--
 Flo, darting to my window-

t we Papa?" Uncle, calmly 
admiring his boots--"No, my dear, not unless you want beer, that
 
A pause--then Flo cried out, 
s a gallows and a man going 
up." "Where, where?" shrieks Amy, staring out at two tall posts with a 
crossbeam and some dangling chains. "A colliery," remarks Uncle, with a 
twinkle of the eye. "Here
 says Amy. 

t they pretty?" added Flo sentimentally. "Geese, young 
ladies," returns Uncle, in a tone that keeps us quiet till Flo settles down to 
enjoy the FLIRTATIONS OF CAPTAIN CAVENDISH, and I have the scenery 
all to myself. 
Of course it rained when we got to London, and there was nothing to be seen 
but fog and umbrellas. We rested, unpacked,  and shopped a little between 
the showers. Aunt Mary got me some new things, for I came off in such a 
hurry I wasn
t that sound sort of 
elegant and rich? 
Flo and I, for the fun of it, ordered a hansom cab, while Aunt and Uncle 
were out, and went for a drive, though we learned afterward that it wasn
t get at him. He didn
Now, then, mum?
Aye, aye, mum,
A little faster,
s house is 
not far off. Such sights as I saw, my dear! It was as good as Punch, for there 
were fat dowagers rolling about in their red and yellow coaches, with 
gorgeous Jeameses in silk stockings and velvet coats, up behind, and 
powdered coachmen in front. Smart maids, with the rosiest children I ever 
saw, handsome girls, looking half asleep, dandies in queer English hats and 
lavender kids lounging about, and tall soldiers,  in short red jackets and 
muffin caps stuck on one side, looking so funny I longed to sketch them. 
Rotten Row means `Route de Roi
s way, but now it
t according to our rules. I longed to show them a tearing American 
gallop, for they trotted solemnly up and down, in their scant habits and high 
hats, looking like the women in a toy Noah
s the thing to wear one in the button
hole, and I thought it rather a nice little idea. 
294
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 In the P.M. to Westminster Abbey, but don
s 
impossible, so I
s very late, but I can
s English friends,  Fred and Frank Vaughn! I was so surprised, for I 
shouldn
t go, 
so we shall return the call, and see them as we can. They went to the 
theater with us, and we did have such a good time, for Frank devoted 
himself to Flo, and Fred and I talked over past, present, and future fun as if 
we had know each other all our days. Tell Beth Frank asked for her,  and 
was sorry to hear of her ill health. Fred laughed when I spoke of Jo, and 
sent his `respectful compliments to the big hat
t it? 
Aunt is tapping on the wall for the third time, so I must stop. I really feel like 
a dissipated London fine lady, writing here so late, with my room full of 
pretty things, and my head a jumble of parks, theaters, new gowns, and 
gallant creatures who say "Ah!" and twirl their blond mustaches with the 
true English lordliness. I long to see you all, and in spite of my nonsense 
am, as ever, your loving... AMY 
PARIS 
Dear girls,  
In my last I told you about our London visit, how kind the Vaughns were, 
and what pleasant parties they made for us. I enjoyed the trips to Hampton 
Court and the Kensington Museum more than anything else, for at Hampton 
I saw Raphael
 London to our heart
t, for Grace and I are great friends, and the boys very nice 
fellows, especially Fred. 
Well, we were hardly settled here, when he turned up again,  saying he had 
come for a holiday, and was going to Switzerland. Aunt looked sober at first, 
but he was so cool about it she couldn
t know what we should do without him. Uncle doesn
s pronunciation is old-fashioned, and Flo and I, 
though we flattered ourselves that we knew a good deal, find we don
, as Uncle calls it. 
Such delightful times as we are having! Sight-seeing from morning till night, 
stopping for nice lunches in the gay cafes,  and meeting with all sorts of 
droll adventures. Rainy days I spend in the Louvre, revelling in pictures. Jo 
would turn up her naughty nose at some of the finest, because she has no 
soul for art, but I have, and I
ve seen her Napoleon
s cradle and his old toothbrush, also 
Marie Antoinette
s sword, 
and many other interesting things. I
t time to write. 
The Palais Royale is a heavenly place, so full of bijouterie and lovely things 
that I
t buy them. Fred wanted to get me 
some, but of course I didn
ve seen the imperial family several times, the emperor an 
ugly,  hard-looking man, the empress pale and pretty, but dressed in bad 
taste, I thought--purple dress, green hat, and yellow gloves. Little Nap is a 
handsome boy, who sits chatting to his tutor,  and kissed his hand to the 
people as he passes in his four-horse barouche, with postilions in red satin 
jackets and a mounted guard before and behind. 
We often walk in the Tuileries Gardens, for they are lovely, though the 
antique Luxembourg Gardens suit me better. Pere la Chaise is very curious, 
for many of the tombs are like small rooms, and looking in, one sees a table, 
with images or pictures of the dead, and chairs for the mourners to sit in 
when they come to lament. That is so Frenchy. 
Our rooms are on the Rue de Rivoli, and sitting on the balcony, we look up 
and down the long, brilliant street. It is so pleasant that we spend our 
evenings talking there when too tired with our day
t fancy light men, however, the Vaughns are very rich and 
come of an excellent family, so I won
, as 
Father advised. It is good practice for me, and with my sketchbook will give 
you a better idea of my tour than these scribbles. 
Adieu, I embrace you tenderly. VOTRE AMIE 
HEIDELBERG 
My dear Mamma,  
Having a quiet hour before we leave for Berne, I
s old guidebooks and read about it. I haven
clock Flo and I were 
waked by the most delicious music under our windows. We flew up,  and hid 
behind the curtains, but sly peeps showed us Fred and the students singing 
away down below. It was the most romantic thing I ever saw--the river, the 
bridge of boats, the great fortress opposite, moonlight everywhere, and 
music fit to melt a heart of stone. 
When they were done we threw down some flowers, and saw them scramble 
for them, kiss their hands to the invisible ladies,  and go laughing away, to 
smoke and drink beer, I suppose. Next morning Fred showed me one of the 
crumpled flowers in his vest pocket, and looked very sentimental. I laughed 
at him, and said I didn
m afraid I
d marry soon, and I 
quite agree with her that it would be well for him. Frankfurt was delightful. I 
297
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 saw Goeth
s statue, and Dannecker
t like to ask, as everyone knew it or pretended they did. I wish 
Jo would tell me all about it. I ought to have read more, for I find I don
ve begun to feel that the moonlight walks, balcony talks, and daily 
adventures were something more to him than fun. I haven
t help it if people like me. I don
t care for them, though Jo says I haven
Oh, the mercenary little 
wretch!
ve made up my mind, and if Fred asks me, I shall accept him,  
though I
t think his family would object, and I should be 
very happy, for they are all kind, well-bred, generous people, and they like 
me. Fred, as the eldest twin, will have the estate, I suppose, and such a 
splendid one it is! A city house in a fashionable street, not so showy as our 
big houses, but twice as comfortable and full of solid luxury, such as 
English people believe in. I like it, for it
ve seen the plate, the 
family jewels, the old servants,  and pictures of the country place, with its 
park, great house,  lovely grounds, and fine horses. Oh, it would be all I 
should ask! And I
t mean to bear it a minute longer than I can help. One of us must 
marry well. Meg didn
t, Beth can
t marry a man I hated or despised. You 
may be sure of that, and though Fred is not my model hero, he does very 
well, and in time I should get fond enough of him if he was very fond of me, 
and let me do just as I liked. So I
, Fred looked as fierce as a lion, and cut his meat so savagely it 
298
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 nearly flew off his plate. He isn
s head on the wall, with scarlet woodbine sprays hanging 
round it. I felt as if I
t feel blushy or 
quakey, but quite cool and only a little excited. 
By-and-by I heard Fred
d just got a letter begging him to 
come home, for Frank was very ill. So he was going at once on the night 
train and only had time to say good-by. I was very sorry for him, and 
disappointed for myself, but only for a minute because he said, as he shook 
hands, and said it in a way that I could not mistake, "I shall soon come 
back, you won
 
I didn't promise, but I looked at him, and he seemed satisfied, and there was 
no time for anything but messages and good-byes, for he was off in an hour, 
and we all miss him very much. I know he wanted to speak, but I think, 
from something he once hinted, that he had promised his father not to do 
anything of the sort yet a while, for is is a rash boy, and the old gentleman 
dreads a foreign daughter-in-law. We shall soon meet in Rome, and then, if I 
don't change my mind, I'll say 
 when he says 
 
Of course this is all very private, but I wished you to know what was going 
on. Don't be anxious about me, remember I am your `prudent Amy', and be 
sure I will do nothing rashly. Send me as much advice as you like. I'll use it 
if I can. I wish I could see you for a good talk, Marmee. Love and trust me. 
Ever your AMY 
299
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO 

m anxious about Beth." 
"Why, Mother, she has seemed unusually well since the babies came." 
"It
s her spirits. I
 

 

t talk to her father as much as she 
used. I found her crying over the babies the other day. When she sings, the 
songs are always sad ones, and now and then I see a look in her face that I 
don
t like Beth, and it worries me." 
"Have you asked her about it?
I have tried once or twice, but she either evaded my questions or looked so 
distressed that I stopped. I never force my children's confidence, and I 
seldom have to wait for long.
s, and after sewing 
thoughtfully for a minute, Jo said, "I think she is growing up, and so begins 
to dream dreams,  and have hopes and fears and fidgets, without knowing 
why or being able to explain them. Why, Mother, Beth
t realize it, and treat her like a child, forgetting she
 

 returned her mother with 
a sigh and a smile. 

t be helped, Marmee, so you must resign yourself to all sorts of worries, 
and let your birds hop out of the nest,  one by one. I promise never to hop 
very far, if that is any comfort to you." 
"It
 

t mind hard jobs much, and there must always be one 
scrub in a family. Amy is splendid in fine works and I
m your man." 
"I leave Beth to your hands, then, for she will open her tender little heart to 
her Jo sooner than to anyone else. Be very kind, and don
t have a wish in the world." 
"Happy woman! I
 

 

ll settle Bethy
ll tell you mine. They are not very 
wearing, so they
 And Jo stitched away,  with a wise nod which set 
her mother's heart at rest about her for the present at least. 
While apparently absorbed in her own affairs, Jo watched Beth, and after 
many conflicting conjectures, finally settled upon one which seemed to 
explain the change in her. A slight incident gave Jo the clue to the mystery, 
she thought, and lively fancy, loving heart did the rest. She was affecting to 
write busily one Saturday afternoon, when she and Beth were alone 
together. Yet as she scribbled, she kept her eye on her sister, who seemed 
unusually quiet. Sitting at the window, Beth's work often dropped into her 
lap, and she leaned her head upon her hand, in a dejected attitude, while 
her eyes rested on the dull,  autumnal landscape. Suddenly some one 
passed below, whistling like an operatic blackbird, and a voice called out, 

 
Beth started, leaned forward, smiled and nodded, watched the passer-by till 
his quick tramp died away, then said softly as if to herself, 
 

 said Jo, still intent upon her sister's face, for the bright color faded 
as quickly as it came, the smile vanished, and presently a tear lay shining 
on the window ledge. Beth whisked it off, and in her half-averted face read a 
tender sorrow that made her own eyes fill. Fearing to betray herself, she 
slipped away, murmuring something about needing more paper. 

 she said, sitting down in her own room, 
pale with the shock of the discovery which she believed she had just made. 

 
there Jo stopped and turned scarlet with a sudden thought. 
t 
love back again, how dreadful it would be. He must. I
 And she 
shook her head threateningly at the picture of the mischievous- looking boy 
301
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 laughing at her from the wall. 
s Meg married and a mamma,  Amy flourishing away at 
Paris, and Beth in love. I
 Jo thought intently for a minute with her eyes fixed on the 
picture, then she smoothed out her wrinkled forehead and said, with a 
decided nod at the face opposite, 
re very charming, 
but you
t write 
touching notes and smile in that insinuating way, for it won
t have it." 
Then she sighed, and fell into a reverie from which she did not wake till the 
early twilight sent her down to take new observations, which only confirmed 
her suspicion. Though Laurie flirted with Amy and joked with Jo, his 
manner to Beth had always been peculiarly kind and gentle, but so was 
everybody
 was getting fonder than ever of Jo, who, 
however, wouldn
I told you so.
, and 
wouldn
, intending to graduate in a blaze of glory. This 
suited the young lady better than twilight confidences, tender pressures of 
the hand, and eloquent glances of the eye, for with Jo, brain developed 
earlier than heart, and she preferred imaginary heroes to real ones, because 
when tired of them, the former could be shut up in the tin kitchen till called 
for, and the latter were less manageable. 
Things were in this state when the grand discovery was made, and Jo 
watched Laurie that night as she had never done before. If she had not got 
the new idea into her head, she would have seen nothing unusual in the fact 
that Beth was very quiet, and Laurie very kind to her. But having given the 
rein to her lively fancy, it galloped away with her at a great pace, and 
302
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 common sense, being rather weakened by a long course or romance writing, 
did not come to the rescue. As usual Beth lay on the sofa and Laurie sat in a 
low chair close by, amusing her with all sorts of gossip, for she depended on 
her weekly `spin
s eyes rested on the lively, dark face beside her with 
peculiar pleasure, and that she listened with intense interest to an account 
of some exciting cricket match,  though the phrases, `caught off a tice
,  and `the leg hit for three
s manner,  that he 
dropped his voice now and then, laughed less than usual,  was a little 
absent--minded, and settled the afghan over Beth
Who knows? Stranger things have happened,
She will make quite an angel of him, and he will make life 
delightfully easy and pleasant for the dear, if they only love each other. I 
don't see how he can help it, and I do believe he would if the rest of us were 
out of the way.
s favorite 
lounging place. Among the many pillows that adorned the venerable couch 
was one, hard, round, covered with prickly horsehair, and furnished with a 
knobby button at each end. This repulsive pillow was her especial property, 
being used as a weapon of defense, a barricade, or a stern preventive of too 
much slumber. 
Laurie knew this pillow well, and had cause to regard it with deep aversion, 
having been unmercifully pummeled with it in former days when romping 
was allowed, and now frequently debarred by it from the seat he most 
coveted next ot Jo in the sofa corner. If `the sausage
Now, this is filling at the price.
No slang,
Come, Jo, don't be thorny. After studying himself to a skeleton all the week, 
a fellow deserves petting and ought to get it.
Beth will pet you. I'm busy.
No, she's not to be bothered with me, but you like that sort of thing, unless 
you've suddenly lost your taste for it. Have you? Do you hate your boy, and 
want to fire pillows at him?
 by turning on him with a stern query, "How many 
bouquets have you sent Miss Randal this week?" 
"Not one, upon my word. She
 

m glad of it, that
t care two pins," continued Jo reprovingly. 
"Sensible girls for whom I do care whole papers of pins won
, so what can I do? My feelings need a` vent
 

t approve of flirting even in fun, and you do flirt desperately, 
Teddy." 
"I
. As I can
ll merely say 
that I don
s only play." 
"Well, it does look pleasant, but I can
s done. I
t seem to get on", said Jo,  forgetting to play mentor. 
"Take lessons of Amy, she has a regular talent for it." 
304
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Yes, she does it very prettily, and never seems to go too far. I suppose it
 

m glad you can
s really refreshing to see a sensible, 
straightforward girl, who can be jolly and kind without making a fool of 
herself. Between ourselves, Jo, some of the girls I know really do go on at 
such a rate I
t mean any harm, I
d mend their 
ways, I fancy." 
"They do the same, and as their tongues are the sharpest,  you fellows get 
the worst of it, for you are as silly as they,  every bit. If you behaved 
properly, they would, but knowing you like their nonsense, they keep it up, 
and then you blame them." 
"Much you know about it, ma
 said Laurie in a superior tone. 
t 
like romps and flirts, though we may act as if we did sometimes. The pretty, 
modest girls are never talked about, except respectfully, among gentleman. 
Bless your innocent soul! If you could be in my place for a month you
Out upon you, fie upon you,  Bold-faced jig!
s 
chivalrous reluctance to speak ill of womankind, and his very natural dislike 
of the unfeminine folly of which fashionable society showed him many 
samples. Jo knew that `young Laurence
If you must 
have a `went', Teddy, go and devote yourself to one of the `pretty, modest 
girls' whom you do respect, and not waste your time with the silly ones.
You really advise it?
Yes, I do, but you'd better wait till you are through college, on the whole, 
and be fitting yourself for the place meantime. You're not half good enough 
305
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 for--well, whoever the modest girl may be.
That I'm not!
s apron tassel round 
his finger. 
"Mercy on us, this will never do," thought Jo, adding aloud, "Go and sing to 
me. I
 

d rather stay here, thank you." 
"Well, you can
t room. Go and make yourself useful, since you 
are too big to be ornamental. I thought you hated to be tied to a woman
 retorted Jo,  quoting certain rebellious words of his own. 

 and Laurie gave an audacious 
tweak at the tassel. 

 demanded Jo, diving for the pillow. 
He fled at once, and the minute it was well, 
 she slipped away to return no more till the young gentleman 
departed in high dudgeon. 
Jo lay long awake that night, and was just dropping off when the sound of a 
stifled sob made her fly to Beth's bedside, with the anxious inquiry, 
 

 sobbed Beth. 

 
"No, it
 And Beth tried to check her tears. 

 

t, there is no cure." There Beth
Where is it? Shall I call Mother?
No, no, don't call her, don't tell her. I shall be better soon. Lie down here 
and `poor' my head. I'll be quiet and go to sleep, indeed I will.
s hot forehead and wet 
eyelids, her heart was very full and she longed to speak. But young as she 
was, Jo had learned that hearts, like flowers, cannot be rudely handled, but 
306
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 must open naturally, so though she believed she knew the cause of Beth
Does anything trouble you, 
deary?
Yes, Jo,
Wouldn't it comfort you to tell me what it is?
not now, not yet.
Then I won't ask, but remember, Bethy, that Mother and Jo are always glad 
to hear and help you, if they can.
I know it. I'll tell you by-and-by.
Is the pain better now?
Oh, yes, much better, you are so comfortable, Jo.
Go to sleep, dear. I'll stay with you.
You asked me the other day what my wishes were. I'll tell you one of them, 
Marmee,
I want to go away 
somewhere this winter for a change.
Why, Jo?
I want something new. I 
feel restless and anxious to be seeing,  doing, and learning more than I am. I 
brood too much over my own small affairs, and need stirring up, so as I can 
be spared this winter, I'd like to hop a little way and try my wings.
Where will you hop?
To New York. I had a bright idea yesterday, and this is it. You know Mrs. 
Kirke wrote to you for some respectable young person to teach her children 
and sew. It's rather hard to find just the thing, but I think I should suit if I 
tried.
My dear, go out to service in that great boarding house!
It's not exactly going out to service, for Mrs. Kirke is your friend--the 
kindest soul that ever lived--and would make things pleasant for me, I 
know. Her family is separate from the rest, and no one knows me there. 
Don't care if they do. It's honest work, and I'm not ashamed of it.
Nor I. But your writing?
All the better for the change. I shall see and hear new things, get new ideas, 
and even if I haven't much time there,  I shall bring home quantities of 
material for my rubbish.
I have no doubt of it, but are these your only reasons for this sudden 
fancy?' 

 

 
Jo looked up and Jo looked down, then said slowly, with sudden color in her 
cheeks. 
m afraid--Laurie is getting 
too fond of me." 
"Then you don
 And Mrs. March looked anxious as she put the question. 
"Mercy, no! I love the dear boy, as I always have, and am immensely proud 
of him, but as for anything more, it
 

m glad of that, Jo." 
"Why, please?
Because, dear, I don't think you suited to one another. As friends you are 
very happy, and your frequent quarrels soon blow over, but I fear you would 
both rebel if you were mated for life. You are too much alike and too fond of 
freedom, not to mention hot tempers and strong wills, to get on happily 
together, in a relation which needs infinite patience and forbearance, as well 
as love.
That's just the feeling I had, though I couldn't express it. I'm glad you think 
he is only beginning to care for me. It would trouble me sadly to make him 
unhappy, for I couldn't fall in love with the dear old fellow merely out of 
gratitude, could I?
You are sure of his feeling for you?
s cheeks as she answered, with the look of mingled 
pleasure, pride, and pain which young girls wear when speaking of first 
lovers, "I
t said anything, but he looks a 
great deal. I think I had better go away before it comes to anything." 
"I agree with you, and if it can be managed you shall go." 
Jo looked relieved, and after a pause, said, smiling, "How Mrs. Moffat would 
wonder at your want of management, if she knew, and how she will rejoice 
that Annie may still hope." 
"AH, Jo, mothers may differ in their management, but the hope is the same 
in all--the desire to see their children happy. Meg is so, and I am content 
with her success. You I leave to enjoy your liberty till you tire of it, for only 
then will you find that there is something sweeter. Amy is my chief care 
now, but her good sense will help ;her. For Beth, I indulge no hopes except 
that she may be well. By the way, she seems brighter this last day or two. 
Have you spoken to her?
Yes, she owned she had a trouble, and promised to tell me by-and-by. I said 
no more, for I think I know it,
s sake Jo should 
go away for a time. 
"Let us say nothing about it to him till the plan is settled,  then I
m going to 
please myself, as I am, for I can
m gone, and so cure him of this romantic notion. 
He
s used to it, and will 
soon get over his lovelornity." 
Jo spoke hopefully, but could not rid herself of the foreboding fear that this 
`little trial
 as easily as heretofore. 
The plan was talked over in a family council and agreed upon, for Mrs. Kirke 
gladly accepted Jo, and promised to make a pleasant home for her. The 
teaching would render her independent, and such leisure as she got might 
be made profitable by writing, while the new scenes and society would be 
both useful and agreeable. Jo liked the prospect and was eager to be gone, 
309
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 for the home nest was growing too narrow for her restless nature and 
adventurous spirit. When all was settled, with fear and trembling she told 
Laurie, but to her surprise he took it very quietly. He had been graver than 
usual of late, but very pleasant, and when jokingly accused of turning over a 
new leaf, he answered soberly, "So I am,  and I mean this one shall stay 
turned." 
Jo was very much relieved that one of his virtuous fits should come on just 
then, and made her preparations with a lightened heart, for Beth seemed 
more cheerful, and hoped she was doing the best for all. 
"One thing I leave in your especial care," she said, the night before she left. 
"You mean your papers?" asked Beth. "No, my boy. Be very good to him, 
won
 

t fill your place, and he
 

t hurt him, so remember, I leave him in your charge, to plague, pet, 
and keep in order." 
"I
 promised Beth, wondering why Jo looked at 
her so queerly. 
When Laurie said good-by, he whispered significantly, 
t do a bit of 
good, Jo. My eye is on you, so mind what you do, or I
 
310
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE 
New York, November 
Dear Marmee and Beth,  
I'm going to write you a regular volume, for I've got heaps to tell, though I'm 
not a fine young lady traveling on the continent.  When I lost sight of 
Father's dear old face, I felt a trifle blue, and might have shed a briny drop 
or two, if an Irish lady with four small children, all crying more or less,  
hadn't diverted my mind, for I amused myself by dropping gingerbread nuts 
over the seat every time they opened their mouths to roar. 
Soon the sun came out, and taking it as a good omen, I cleared up likewise 
and enjoyed my journey with all my heart. 
Mrs. Kirke welcomed me so kindly I felt at home at once,  even in that big 
house full of strangers. She gave me a funny little sky parlor--all she had, 
but there is a stove in it, and a nice table in a sunny window, so I can sit 
here and write whenever I like. A fine view and a church tower opposite 
atone for the many stairs, and I took a fancy to my den on the spot. The 
nursery, where I am to teach and sew, is a pleasant room next Mrs. Kirke's 
private parlor, and the two little girls are pretty children, rather spoiled, I 
fancy, but they took to me after telling them The Seven Bad Pigs, and I've no 
doubt I shall make a model governess. 
I am to have my meals with the children, if I prefer it to the great table, and 
for the present I do, for I am bashful,  though no one will believe it. 

 said Mrs. K. in her motherly way, 

m on the drive from morning to night, as you may suppose with such a 
family, but a great anxiety will be off my mind if I know the children are safe 
with you. My rooms are always open to you, and your own shall be as 
comfortable as I can make it. There are some pleasant people in the house if 
you feel sociable, and your evenings are always free. Come to me if anything 
goes wrong, and be as happy as you can. There
 And off she bustled,  leaving me to settle myself in my 
new nest. 
As I went downstairs soon after, I saw something I liked. The flights are very 
long in this tall house, and as I stood waiting at the head of the third one for 
a little servant girl to lumber up, I saw a gentleman come along behind her, 
take the heavy hod of coal out of her hand, carry it all the way up, put it 
311
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 down at a door near by, and walk away, saying, with a kind nod and a 
foreign accent, 
 
Wasn't it good of him? I like such things, for as Father says, trifles show 
character. When I mentioned it to Mrs. K.,  that evening, she laughed, and 
said, 
s always doing things of that 
sort." 
Mrs. K. told me he was from Berlin, very learned and good,  but poor as a 
church mouse, and gives lessons to support himself and two little orphan 
nephews whom he is educating here, according to the wishes of his sister, 
who married an American. Not a very romantic story, but it interested me, 
and I was glad to hear that Mrs. K. lends him her parlor for some of his 
scholars. There is a glass door between it and the nursery, and I mean to 
peep at him, and then I
s almost forty, so it
. I was thanking my stars that I
t resist the temptation, and lifting one end of the curtain before the 
glass door, I peeped in. Professor Bhaer was there,  and while he arranged 
his books, I took a good look at him. A regular German--rather stout, with 
brown hair tumbled all over his head, a bushy beard, good nose, the kindest 
eyes I ever saw, and a splendid big voice that does one
t a really handsome feature in his face, except his 
beautiful teeth, yet I liked him, for he had a fine head, his linen was very 
nice, and he looked like a gentleman, though two buttons were off his coat 
and there was a patch on one shoe. He looked sober in spite of his 
312
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 humming, till he went to the window to turn the hyacinth bulbs toward the 
sun, and stroke the cat, who received him like an old friend. Then he smiled, 
and when a tap came at the door, called out in a loud, brisk tone, "Herein!" 
I was just going to run, when I caught sight of a morsel of a child carrying a 
big book, and stopped, to see what was going on. 
"Me wants me Bhaer," said the mite, slamming down her book and running 
to meet him. 
"Thou shalt haf thy Bhaer. Come, then, and take a goot hug from him, my 
Tina," said the Professor, catching her up with a laugh, and holding her so 
high over his head that she had to stoop her little face to kiss him. 
"Now me mus tuddy my lessin," went on the funny little thing. So he put her 
up at the table, opened the great dictionary she had brought, and gave her a 
paper and pencil, and she scribbled away, turning a leaf now and then, and 
passing her little fat finger down the page, as if finding a word,  so soberly 
that I nearly betrayed myself by a laugh, while Mr. Bhaer stood stroking her 
pretty hair with a fatherly look that made me think she must be his own, 
though she looked more French than German. 
Another knock and the appearance of two young ladies sent me back to my 
work, and there I virtuously remained through all the noise and gabbling 
that went on next door. One of the girls kept laughing affectedly, and saying, 
"Now Professor," in a coquettish tone, and the other pronounced her 
German with an accent that must have made it hard for him to keep sober. 
Both seemed to try his patience sorely, for more than once I heard him say 
emphatically, "No, no, it is not so, you haf not attend to what I say," and 
once there was a loud rap, as if he struck the table with his book, followed 
by the despairing exclamation, "Prut! It all goes bad this day." 
Poor man, I pitied him, and when the girls were gone, took just one more 
peep to see if he survived it. He seemed to have thrown himself back in his 
chair, tired out, and sat there with his eyes shut till the clock struck two, 
when he jumped up, put his books in his pocket, as if ready for another 
lesson, and taking little Tina who had fallen asleep on the sofa in his arms, 
he carried her quietly away. I fancy he has a hard life of it. Mrs. Kirke asked 
me if I wouldn
clock dinner, and feeling a little bit 
homesick, I thought I would, just to see what sort of people are under the 
same roof with me. So I made myself respectable and tried to slip in behind 
Mrs. Kirke, but as she is short and I
t think I 
shall care to have much to do with any of them, except one sweetfaced 
maiden lady, who looks as if she had something in her. 
Cast away at the very bottom of the table was the Professor, shouting 
answers to the questions of a very inquisitive,  deaf old gentleman on one 
side, and talking philosophy with a Frenchman on the other. If Amy had 
been here, she
. I didn
, as Hannah says, and the poor man must have needed a deal 
of food after teaching idiots all day. 
As I went upstairs after dinner, two of the young men were settling their 
hats before the hall mirror, and I heard one say low to the other, "Who
 

 

 

s." 
"Handsome head, but no style." 
"Not a bit of it. Give us a light and come on." 
I felt angry at first, and then I didn
ve got sense, if I haven
. Kitty and Minnie Kirk likewise regard him with 
affection, and tell all sorts of stories about the plays he invents, the presents 
he brings, and the splendid tales he tells. The younger men quiz him, it 
seems,  call him Old Fritz, Lager Beer, Ursa Major, and make all manner of 
jokes on his name. But he enjoys it like a boy, Mrs. Kirke says, and takes it 
so good-naturedly that they all like him in spite of his foreign ways. 
The maiden lady is a Miss Norton, rich, cultivated, and kind. She spoke to 
me at dinner today (for I went to table again, it
t the same 
sort that Amy likes. 
I was in our parlor last evening when Mr. Bhaer came in with some 
newspapers for Mrs. Kirke. She wasn
This is Mamma's friend, Miss March.
Yes, and she's jolly and we like her lots,
. 
We both bowed, and then we laughed, for the prim introduction and the 
blunt addition were rather a comical contrast. 
"Ah, yes, I hear these naughty ones go to vex you, Mees Marsch. If so again, 
call at me and I come," he said, with a threatening frown that delighted the 
little wretches. 
I promised I would, and he departed, but it seems as if I was doomed to see 
a good deal of him, for today as I passed his door on my way out, by 
accident I knocked against it with my umbrella. It flew open, and there he 
stood in his dressing gown, with a big blue sock on one hand and a darning 
needle in the other. He didn
You haf a fine day to make your walk. Bon voyage, Mademoiselle.
m 
sure Mrs. Kirke has told her about us, and she does it out of kindness to 
me. I
t burden 
me, and I accepted gratefully. When I got back to the nursery there was 
such an uproar in the parlor that I looked in, and there was Mr. Bhaer down 
on his hands and knees, with Tina on his back, Kitty leading him with a 
jump rope, and Minnie feeding two small boys with seedcakes, as they 
roared and ramped in cages built of chairs. 
"We are playing nargerie," explained Kitty. 
"Dis is mine effalunt!" added Tina, holding on by the Professor
Mamma always allows us to do what we like Saturday afternoon, when 
Franz and Emil come, doesn't she, Mr. Bhaer?
 sat up, looking as much in earnest as any of them, and said 
soberly to me, "I gif you my wort it is so,  if we make too large a noise you 
shall say Hush! to us, and we go more softly." 
I promised to do so, but left the door open and enjoyed the fun as much as 
they did, for a more glorious frolic I never witnessed. They played tag and 
soldiers, danced and sang, and when it began to grow dark they all piled 
onto the sofa about the Professor, while he told charming fairy stories of the 
storks on the chimney tops, and the little `koblods
t 
you? 
I
t stop me, for though I
s as soon as 
you can spare them. My small news will sound very flat after her splendors, 
but you will like them, I know. Is Teddy studying so hard that he can
ve begun to take lessons. I really 
couldn
s room where she was rummaging. 
"Did you ever see such a den, my dear? Just come and help me put these 
books to rights, for I
 
I went in, and while we worked I looked about me, for it was `a den' to be 
sure. Books and papers everywhere, a broken meerschaum, and an old flute 
over the mantlepiece as if done with, a ragged bird without any tail chirped 
on one window seat, and a box of white mice adorned the other. Half
finished boats and bits of string lay among the manuscripts. Dirty little 
boots stood drying before the fire, and traces of the dearly beloved boys, for 
whom he makes a slave of himself,  were to be seen all over the room. After a 
grand rummage three of the missing articles were found, one over the bird 
cage, one covered with ink, and a third burned brown, having been used as 
a holder. 

 laughed good-natured Mrs. K., as she put the relics in the rag 
bay. 
s dreadful, but I can
s so absent-minded 
and goodnatured, he lets those boys ride over him roughshod. I agreed to do 
his washing and mending, but he forgets to give out his things and I forget 
to look them over, so he comes to a sad pass sometimes." 
317
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Let me mend them," said I. "I don
t know. I
s so kind to me about bringing my letters and lending books." 
So I have got his things in order, and knit heels into two pairs of the socks, 
for they were boggled out of shape with his queer darns. Nothing was said, 
and I hoped he wouldn
So!
you peep at me, I peep at 
you, and this is not bad, but see, I am not pleasanting when I say, haf you a 
wish for German?
Yes, but you are too busy. I am too stupid to learn,
Prut! We will make the time, and we fail not to find the sense. At efening I 
shall gif a little lesson with much gladness, for look you, Mees Marsch, I haf 
this debt to pay.
 they say to one another, 
these so kind ladies, `he is a stupid old fellow, he will see not what we do, he 
will never observe that his sock heels go not in holes any more, he will think 
his buttons grow out new when they fall,  and believe that strings make 
theirselves.
Ah! But I haf an eye, and I see much. I haf a heart, and I feel 
thanks for this. Come, a little lesson then and now, or no more good fairy 
works for me and mine.
t say anything after that, and as it really is a splendid 
opportunity, I made the bargain, and we began. I took four lessons, and 
then I stuck fast in a grammatical bog. The Professor was very patient with 
me, but it must have been torment to him, and now and then he
t blame him a particle, and was scrambling my papers together, 
meaning to rush upstairs and shake myself hard, when in he came, as brisk 
and beaming as if I
Now we shall try a new way. You and I will read these pleasant little 
MARCHEN together, and dig no more in that dry book, that goes in the 
corner for making us trouble.
s fairy tales so invitingly 
before me, that I was more ashamed than ever, and went at my lesson in a 
neck-or-nothing style that seemed to amuse him immensely. I forgot my 
bashfulness, and pegged away (no other word will express it) with all my 
might,  tumbling over long words, pronouncing according to inspiration of 
the minute, and doing my very best. When I finished reading my first page, 
and stopped for breath, he clapped his hands and cried out in his hearty 
way, "Das ist gut!
 And away he went,  rumbling out the words with his strong voice and a 
relish which was good to see as well as hear. Fortunately the story was the 
CONSTANT TIN SOLDIER, which is droll, you know, so I could laugh,  and I 
did, though I didn't understand half he read, for I couldn't help it, he was so 
earnest, I so excited, and the whole thing so comical. After that we got on 
better, and now I read my lessons pretty well, for this way of studying suits 
me, and I can see that the grammar gets tucked into the tales and poetry as 
one gives pills in jelly. I like it very much, and he doesn't seem tired of it yet, 
which is very good of him, isn't it? I mean to give him something on 
Christmas, for I dare not offer money. Tell me something nice, Marmee. 
I'm glad Laurie seems so happy and busy, that he has given up smoking and 
lets his hair grow. You see Beth manages him better than I did. I'm not 
jealous, dear, do your best, only don't make a saint of him. I'm afraid I 
couldn't like him without a spice of human naughtiness. Read him bits of 
my letters. I haven't time to write much, and that will do just as well. Thank 
Heaven Beth continues so comfortable. 
JANUARY 
A Happy New Year to you all, my dearest family, which of course includes 
Mr. L. and a young man by the name of Teddy. I can't tell you how much I 
enjoyed your Christmas bundle,  for i didn't get it till night and had given up 
hoping. Your letter came in the morning, but you said nothing about a 
parcel, meaning it for a surprise, so I was disappointed,  for I'd had a `kind 
of feeling' that you wouldn't forget me. I felt a little low in my mind as I sat 
up in my room after tea, and when the big, muddy, battered-looking bundle 
was brought to me, I just hugged it and pranced. It was so homey and 
refreshing that I sat down on the floor and read and looked and ate and 
laughed and cried, in my usual absurd way. The things were just what I 
wanted, and all the better for being made instead of bought. Beth's new `ink 
319
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 bib' was capital, and Hannah's box of hard gingerbread will be a treasure. I'll 
be sure and wear the nice flannels you sent,  Marmee, and read carefully the 
books Father has marked. Thank you all, heaps and heaps! 
Speaking of books reminds me that I'm getting rich in that line, for on New 
Year's Day Mr. Bhaer gave me a fine Shakespeare.  It is one he values much, 
and I've often admired it,  set up in the place of honor with his German 
Bible, Plato,  Homer, and Milton, so you may imagine how I felt when he 
brought it down, without its cover, and showed me my own name in it,  

. 

 
I thanked him as well as I could, and talk now about `my library', as if I had 
a hundred books. I never knew how much there was in Shakespeare before, 
but then I never had a Bhaer to explain it to me. Now don't laugh at his 
horrid name. It isn't pronounced either Bear or Beer, as people will say it,  
but something between the two, as only Germans can give it. I'm glad you 
both like what I tell you about him, and hope you will know him some day. 
Mother would admire his warm heart,  Father his wise head. I admire both, 
and feel rich in my new `friend Friedrich Bhaer'. 
Not having much money, or knowing what he'd like, I got several little 
things, and put them about the room, where he would find them 
unexpectedly. They were useful, pretty, or funny, a new standish on his 
table, a little vase for his flower, he always has one, or a bit of green in a 
glass, to keep him fresh, he says, and a holder for his blower, so that he 
needn't burn up what Amy calls `mouchoirs'. I made it like those Beth 
invented, a big butterfly with a fat body,  and black and yellow wings, 
worsted feelers, and bead eyes. It took his fancy immensely, and he put it on 
his mantlepiece as an article of virtue, so it was rather a failure after all. 
Poor as he is, he didn't forget a servant or a child in the house, and not a 
soul here, from the French laundrywoman to Miss Norton forgot him. I was 
so glad of that. 
They got up a masquerade, and had a gay time New Year's Eve. I didn't 
mean to go down, having no dress. But at the last minute, Mrs. Kirke 
remembered some old brocades, and Miss Norton lent me lace and feathers. 
So I dressed up as Mrs. Malaprop, and sailed in with a mask on. No one 
knew me, for I disguised my voice, and no one dreamed of the silent, 
320
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 haughty Miss March (for they think I am very stiff and cool, most of them, 
and so I am to whippersnappers) could dance and dress,  and burst out into 
a `nice derangement of epitaphs, like an allegory on the banks of the Nile'. I 
enjoyed it very much,  and when we unmasked it was fun to see them stare 
at me. I heard one of the young men tell another that he knew I'd been an 
actress, in fact, he thought he remembered seeing me at one of the minor 
theaters. Meg will relish that joke. Mr. Bhaer was Nick Bottom, and Tina 
was Titania, a perfect little fairy in his arms. To see them dance was `quite a 
landscape',  to use a Teddyism. 
I had a very happy New Year, after all, and when I thought it over in my 
room, I felt as if I was getting on a little in spite of my many failures, for I'm 
cheerful all the time now,  work with a will, and take more interest in other 
people than I used to, which is satisfactory. Bless you all! Ever your loving... 
Jo 
321
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR 
Though very happy in the social atmosphere about her, and very busy with 
the daily work that earned her bread and made it sweeter for the effort, Jo 
still found time for literary labors. The purpose which now took possession 
of her was a natural one to a poor and ambitious girl, but the means she 
took to gain her end were not the best. She saw that money conferred power,  
therefore, she resolved to have, not to be used for herself alone,  but for 
those whom she loved more than life. 
The dream of filling home with comforts, giving Beth everything she wanted, 
from strawberries in winter to an organ in her bedroom, going abroad 
herself, and always having more than enough,  so that she might indulge in 
the luxury of charity, had been for years Jo's most cherished castle in the 
air. 
The prize-story experience had seemed to open a way which might, after 
long traveling and much uphill work, lead to this delightful chateau en 
Espagne. But the novel disaster quenched her courage for a time, for public 
opinion is a giant which has frightened stouter-hearted Jacks on bigger 
beanstalks than hers. Like that immortal hero, she reposed awhile after the 
first attempt, which resulted in a tumble and the least lovely of the giant's 
treasures, if I remember rightly. But the `up again and take another' spirit 
was as strong in Jo as in Jack, so she scrambled up on the shady side this 
time and got more booty, but nearly left behind her what was far more 
precious than the moneybags. 
She took to writing sensation stories, for in those dark ages, even all-perfect 
America read rubbish. She told no one,  but concocted a `thrilling tale', and 
boldly carried it herself to Mr. Dashwood, editor of the Weekly Volcano. She 
had never read Sartor Resartus, but she had a womanly instinct that 
clothes possess an influence more powerful over many than the worth of 
character or the magic of manners. So she dressed herself in her best, and 
trying to persuade herself that she was neither excited nor nervous, bravely 
climbed two pairs of dark and dirty stairs to find herself in a disorderly 
room, a cloud of cigar smoke, and the presence of three gentlemen, sitting 
with their heels rather higher than their hats,  which articles of dress none 
of them took the trouble to remove on her appearance. somewhat daunted 
by this reception, Jo hesitated on the threshold, murmuring in much 
embarrassment... 
322
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
 
Down went the highest pair of heels, up rose the smokiest gentleman, and 
carefully cherishing his cigar between his fingers, he advanced with a nod 
and a countenance expressive of nothing but sleep. Feeling that she must 
get through the matter somehow, Jo produced her manuscript and, 
blushing redder and redder with each sentence, blundered out fragments of 
the little speech carefully prepared for the occasion. 

 
While she blushed and blundered, Mr. Dashwood had taken the 
manuscript, and was turning over the leaves with a pair of rather dirty 
fingers, and casting critical glances up and down the neat pages. 

 observing that the pages were numbered, 
covered only on one side, and not tied up with a ribbon--sure sign of a 
novice. 

 

 And Mr. Dashwood gave JO a quick look,  which seemed to 
take note of everything she had on, from the bow in her bonnet to the 
buttons on her boots. 
ve more of this 
sort of thing on hand than we know what to do with at present, but I
 
Now, Jo did not like to leave it, for Mr. Dashwood didn't suit her at all, but, 
under the circumstances, there was nothing for her to do but bow and walk 
away, looking particularly tall and dignified, as she was apt to do when 
nettled or abashed. Just then she was both, for it was perfectly evident from 
the knowing glances exchanged among the gentlemen that her little fiction 
of `my friend' was considered a good joke, and a laugh, produced by some 
inaudible remark of the editor, as he closed the door, completed her 
discomfiture. Half resolving never to return, she went home, and worked off 
her irritation by stitching pinafores vigorously, and in an hour or two was 
cool enough to laugh over the scene and long for next week. 
When she went again, Mr. Dashwood was alone, whereat she rejoiced. Mr. 
Dashwood was much wider awake than before,  which was agreeable and 
Mr. Dashwood was not too deeply absorbed in a cigar to remember his 
323
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 manners, so the second interview was much more comfortable than the 
first. 

ll take this (editors never say I), if you don
s too long, but omitting the passages I
 he said, in a businesslike tone. 
Jo hardly knew her own MS again, so crumpled and underscored were its 
pages and paragraphs, but feeling as a tender patent might on being asked 
to cut off her baby's legs in order that it might fit into a new cradle, she 
looked at the marked passages and was surprised to find that all the moral 
reflections--which she had carefully put in as ballast for much romance-
had been stricken out. 

 
Mr. Dashwoods's editorial gravity relaxed into a smile, for Jo had forgotten 
her `friend', and spoken as only an author could. 

t sell 
nowadays." Which was not quite a correct statement,  by the way. 
"You think it would do with these alterations, then?" 
"Yes, it
 
was Mr. Dashwood's affable reply. 

 began Jo, not exactly knowing 
how to express herself. 

 returned Mr. Dashwood, as if that point had escaped 
him. Such trifles do escape the editorial mind, it is said. 

 said Jo, handing back the story with a satisfied 
air, for after the dollar-a-column work,  even twenty-five seemed good pay. 

 
asked Jo, unconscious of her little slip of the tongue, and emboldened by 
her success. 

ll look at it. Can
 in a careless tone. 
324
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
t wish her name to appear and has no 
nom de plume," said Jo, blushing in spite of herself. 
"Just as she likes, of course. The tale will be out next week. Will you call for 
the money, or shall I send it?" asked Mr. Dashwood,  who felt a natural 
desire to know who his new contributor might be. 
"I
 
As she departed, Mr. Dashwood put up his feet, with the graceful remark, 

ll do." 
Following Mr. Dashwood
s character. She was living in bad society, 
and imaginary though it was, its influence affected her, for she was feeding 
heart and fancy on dangerous and unsubstantial food,  and was fast 
brushing the innocent bloom from her nature by a premature acquaintance 
with the darker side of life, which comes soon enough to all of us. 
She was beginning to feel rather than see this, for much describing of other 
people
t know whether the study of Shakespeare helped her to read character, 
or the natural instinct of a woman for what was honest, brave, and strong, 
but while endowing her imaginary heroes with every perfection under the 
sun, Jo was discovering a live hero, who interested her in spite of many 
human imperfections.  Mr. Bhaer, in one of their conversations, had advised 
her to study simple, true, and lovely characters, wherever she found them, 
as good training for a writer. Jo took him at his word, for she coolly turned 
round and studied him--a proceeding which would have much surprised 
him, had he know it, for the worthy Professor was very humble in his own 
conceit. 
Why everybody liked him was what puzzled Jo, at first. He was neither rich 
nor great, young nor handsome, in no respect what is called fascinating, 
imposing, or brilliant, and yet he was as attractive as a genial fire, and 
people seemed to gather about him as naturally as about a warm hearth. He 
was poor, yet always appeared to be giving something away; a stranger, yet 
everyone was his friend; no longer young, but as happy-hearted as a boy; 
plain and peculiar, yet his face looked beautiful to many, and his oddities 
326
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 were freely forgiven for his sake. Jo often watched him, trying to discover the 
charm, and at last decided that it was benevolence which worked the 
miracle. If he had any sorrow, `it sat with its head under its wing
s. 
"That
 said Jo to herself, when she at length discovered that genuine 
good will toward one's fellow men could beautify and dignify even a stout 
German teacher, who shoveled in his dinner, darned his own socks, and 
was burdened with the name of Bhaer. 
Jo valued goodness highly, but she also possessed a most feminine respect 
for intellect, and a little discovery which she made about the Professor 
added much to her regard for him. He never spoke of himself, and no one 
ever knew that in his native city he had been a man much honored and 
esteemed for learning and integrity, till a countryman came to see him. He 
never spoke of himself, and in a conversation with Miss Norton divulged the 
pleasing fact. From her Jo learned it,  and liked it all the better because Mr. 
Bhaer had never told it. She felt proud to know that he was an honored 
Professor in Berlin, though only a poor language-master in America,  and 
his homely, hard-working life was much beautified by the spice of romance 
which this discovery gave it. Another and a better gift than intellect was 
shown her in a most unexpected manner. Miss Norton had the entree into 
most society, which Jo would have had no chance of seeing but for her. The 
solitary woman felt an interest in the ambitious girl, and kindly conferred 
many favors of this sort both on Jo and the Professor. She took them with 
her one night to a select symposium, held in honor of several celebrities. 
Jo went prepared to bow down and adore the mighty ones whom she had 
worshiped with youthful enthusiasm afar off. But her reverence for genius 
received a severe shock that night,  and it took her some time to recover 
from the discovery that the great creatures were only men and women after 
all. Imagine her dismay, on stealing a glance of timid admiration at the poet 
327
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 whose lines suggested an ethereal being fed on `spirit,  fire, and dew', to 
behold him devouring his supper with an ardor which flushed his 
intellectual countenance. Turning as from a fallen idol, she made other 
discoveries which rapidly dispelled her romantic illusions. The great novelist 
vibrated between two decanters with the regularity of a pendulum; the 
famous divine flirted openly with one of the Madame de Staels of the age, 
who looked daggers at another Corinne, who was amiably satirizing her, 
after outmaneuvering her in efforts to absorb the profound philosopher, who 
imbibed tea Johnsonianly and appeared to slumber, the loquacity of the 
lady rendering speech impossible. The scientific celebrities,  forgetting their 
mollusks and glacial periods, gossiped about art, while devoting themselves 
to oysters and ices with characteristic energy; the young musician, who was 
charming the city like a second Orpheus, talked horses; and the specimen of 
the British nobility present happened to be the most ordinary man of the 
party. 
Before the evening was half over, Jo felt so completely disillusioned, that she 
sat down in a corner to recover herself. Mr. Bhaer soon joined her, looking 
rather out of his element,  and presently several of the philosophers, each 
mounted on his hobby, came ambling up to hold an intellectual tournament 
in the recess. The conversations were miles beyond Jo's comprehension, but 
she enjoyed it, though Kant and Hegel were unknown gods, the Subjective 
and Objective unintelligible terms, and the only thing `evolved from her 
inner consciousness' was a bad headache after it was all over. It dawned 
upon her gradually that the world was being picked to pieces, and put 
together on new and, according to the talkers, on infinitely better principles 
than before, that religion was in a fair way to be reasoned into nothingness, 
and intellect was to be the only God. Jo knew nothing about philosophy or 
metaphysics of any sort, but a curious excitement, half pleasurable, half 
painful, came over her as she listened with a sense of being turned adrift 
into time and space, like a young balloon out on a holiday. 
She looked round to see how the Professor liked it, and found him looking at 
her with the grimest expression she had ever seen him wear. He shook his 
head and beckoned her to come away, but she was fascinated just then by 
the freedom of Speculative Philosophy, and kept her seat, trying to find out 
what the wise gentlemen intended to rely upon after they had annihilated all 
the old beliefs. 
Now, Mr. Bhaer was a diffident man and slow to offer his own opinions, not 
because they were unsettled, but too sincere and earnest to be lightly 
spoken. As he glanced from Jo to several other young people, attracted by 
328
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 the brilliancy of the philosophic pyrotechnics, he knit his brows and longed 
to speak, fearing that some inflammable young soul would be led astray by 
the rockets, to find when the display was over that they had only an empty 
stick or a scorched hand. 
He bore it as long as he could, but when he was appealed to for an opinion, 
he blazed up with honest indignation and defended religion with all the 
eloquence of truth--an eloquence which made his broken English musical 
and his plain face beautiful. He had a hard fight, for the wise men argued 
well, but he didn't know when he was beaten and stood to his colors like a 
man. Somehow, as he talked, the world got right again to Jo. The old beliefs, 
that had lasted so long,  seemed better than the new. God was not a blind 
force, and immortality was not a pretty fable, but a blessed fact. She felt as 
if she had solid ground under her feet again, and when Mr. Bhaer paused, 
outtalked but not one whit convinced,  Jo wanted to clap her hands and 
thank him. 
She did neither, but she remembered the scene, and gave the Professor her 
heartiest respect, for she knew it cost him an effort to speak out then and 
there, because his conscience would not let him be silent. She began to see 
that character is a better possession than money, rank, intellect, or beauty,  
and to feel that if greatness is what a wise man has defined it to be, `truth, 
reverence, and good will', then her friend friedrich Bhaer was not only good, 
but great. 
This belief strengthened daily. She valued his esteem,  she coveted his 
respect, she wanted to be worthy of his friendship, and just when the wish 
was sincerest, she came near to losing everything. It all grew out of a cocked 
hat, for one evening the Professor came in to give Jo her lesson with a paper 
soldier cap on his head, which Tina had put there and he had forgotten to 
take off. 

s evident he doesn
 thought Jo, 
with a smile, as he said 
 and sat soberly down, quite 
unconscious of the ludicrous contrast between his subject and his 
headgear, for he was going to read her the Death of Wallenstein. 
She said nothing at first, for she liked to hear him laugh out his big, hearty 
laugh when anything funny happened, so she left him to discover it for 
himself, and presently forgot all about it, for to hear a German read Schiller 
is rather an absorbing occupation. After the reading came the lesson, which 
was a lively one, for Jo was in a gay mood that night, and the cocked hat 
kept her eyes dancing with merriment. The Professor didn't know what to 
329
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 make of her, and stopped at last to ask with an air of mild surprise that was 
irresistible ... 

s face? Haf you no 
respect for me, that you go on so bad?" 
"How can I be respectful, Sir, when you forget to take your hat off?" said Jo. 
Lifting his hand to his head, the absent-minded Professor gravely felt and 
removed the little cocked hat, looked at it a minute, and then threw back his 
head and laughed like a merry bass viol. 
"Ah! I see him now, it is that imp Tina who makes me a fool with my cap. 
Well, it is nothing, but see you, if this lesson goes not well, you too shall 
wear him." 
But the lesson did not go at all for a few minutes because Mr. Bhaer caught 
sight of a picture on the hat, and unfolding it, said with great disgust, "I 
wish these papers did not come in the house. They are not for children to 
see, nor young people to read. It is not well, and I haf no patience with those 
who make this harm." 
Jo glanced at the sheet and saw a pleasing illustration composed of a 
lunatic, a corpse, a villian, and a viper. She did not like it, but the impulse 
that made her turn it over was not one of displeasure but fear, because for a 
minute she fancied the paper was the Volcano. It was not, however,  and her 
panic subsided as she remembered that even if it had been and one of her 
own tales in it, there would have been no name to betray her. She had 
betrayed herself, however, by a look and a blush, for though an absent man, 
the Professor saw a good deal more than people fancied. He knew that Jo 
wrote, and had met her down among the newspaper offices more than once, 
but as she never spoke of it,  he asked no questions in spite of a strong 
desire to see her work. Now it occurred to him that she was doing what she 
was ashamed to own, and it troubled him. He did not say to himself, "It is 
none of my business. I
 as many people would 
have done. He only remembered that she was young and poor, a girl far 
away from mother's love and father's care, and he was moved to help her 
with an impulse as quick and natural as that which would prompt him to 
put out his hand to save a baby from a puddle. All this flashed through his 
mind in a minute,  but not a trace of it appeared in his face, and by the time 
the paper was turned, and Jo's needle threaded, he was ready to say quite 
naturally, but very gravely... 
330
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
 

t see any harm in supplying it. Many very respectable people make an 
honest living out of what are called sensation stories," said Jo, scratching 
gathers so energetically that a row of little slits followed her pin. 
"There is a demand for whisky, but I think you and I do not care to sell it. If 
the respectable people knew what harm they did, they would not feel that 
the living was honest. They haf no right to put poison in the sugarplum, and 
let the small ones eat it. No, they should think a little, and sweep mud in the 
street before they do this thing." 
Mr. Bhaer spoke warmly, and walked to the fire, crumpling the paper in his 
hands. Jo sat still, looking as if the fire had come to her, for her cheeks 
burned long after the cocked hat had turned to smoke and gone harmlessly 
up the chimney. 
"I should like much to send all the rest after him," muttered the Professor, 
coming back with a relieved air. 
Jo thought what a blaze her pile of papers upstairs would make, and her 
hard-earned money lay rather heavily on her conscience at that minute. 
Then she thought consolingly to herself, "Mine are not like that, they are 
only silly, never bad, so I won
 and taking up her book, she 
said,  with a studious face, 
ll be very good and proper 
now." 
"I shall hope so," was all he said, but he meant more than she imagined, 
and the grave, kind look he gave her made her feel as if the words Weekly 
Volcano were printed in large type on her forehead. 
As soon as she went to her room, she got out her papers,  and carefully 
reread every one of her stories. Being a little shortsighted, Mr. Bhaer 
sometimes used eye glasses, and Jo had tried them once, smiling to see how 
they magnified the fine print of her book. Now she seemed to have on the 
Professor
They are trash, and will soon be worse trash if I go on, for each is more 
sensational than the last. I've gone blindly on, hurting myself and other 
people, for the sake of money. I know it's so, for I can't read this stuff in 
331
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 sober earnest without being horribly ashamed of it, and what should I do if 
they were seen at home or Mr. Bhaer got hold of them?
Yes, that's the best place for such inflammable nonsense. I'd better burn 
the house down, I suppose, than let other people blow themselves up with 
my gunpowder,
s work except a heap of 
ashes and the money in her lap, Jo looked sober, as she sat on the floor, 
wondering what she ought to do about her wages. 
"I think I haven
 she said, after a long meditation, adding impatiently, 
t any conscience, it
t care about doing right, 
and didn
t help wishing sometimes, that Mother and Father hadn
 
Ah, Jo, instead of wishing that, thank God that `Father and Mother were 
particular'. and pity from your heart those who have no such guardians to 
hedge them round with principles which may seem like prison walls to 
impatient youth,  but which will prove sure foundations to build character 
upon in womanhood. 
Jo wrote no more sensational stories, deciding that the money did not pay 
for her share of the sensation, but going to the other extreme, as is the way 
with people of her stamp,  she took a course of Mrs. Sherwood, Miss 
Edgeworth, and Hannah More, and then produced a tale which might have 
been more properly called an essay or a sermon, so intensely moral was it. 
She had her doubts about it from the beginning, for her lively fancy and 
girlish romance felt as ill at ease in the new style as she would have done 
masquerading in the stiff and cumbrous costume of the last century. She 
sent this didactic gem to several markets, but it found no purchaser,  and 
she was inclined to agree with Mr. Dashwood that morals didn't sell. 
Then she tried a child's story, which she could easily have disposed of if she 
had not been mercenary enough to demand filthy lucre for it. The only 
person who offered enough to make it worth her while to try juvenile 
literature was a worthy gentleman who felt it his mission to convert all the 
world to his particular belief. But much as she liked to write for children, Jo 
332
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 could not consent to depict all her naughty boys as being eaten by bears or 
tossed by mad bulls because they did not go to a particular Sabbath school, 
nor all the good infants who did go as rewarded by every kind of bliss, from 
gilded gingerbread to escorts of angels when they departed this life with 
psalms or sermons on their lisping tongues. So nothing came of these trials, 
land Jo corked up her inkstand, and said in a fit of very wholesome 
humility... 

t know anything. I
 if I can
s honest, at least." Which 
decision proved that her second tumble down the beanstalk had done her 
some good. 
While these internal revolutions were going on, her external life had been as 
busy and uneventful as usual, and if she sometimes looked serious or a 
little sad no one observed it but Professor Bhaer. He did it so quietly that Jo 
never knew he was watching to see if she would accept and profit by his 
reproof, but she stood the test, and he was satisfied, for though no words 
passed between them, he knew that she had given up writing. Not only did 
he guess it by the fact that the second finger of her right hand was no longer 
inky, but she spent her evenings downstairs now, was met no more among 
newspaper offices, and studied with a dogged patience, which assured him 
that she was bent on occupying her mind with something useful, if not 
pleasant. 
He helped her in many ways, proving himself a true friend,  and Jo was 
happy, for while her pen lay idle, she was learning other lessons besides 
German, and laying a foundation for the sensation story of her own life. 
It was a pleasant winter and a long one, for she did not leave Mrs. Kirke till 
June. Everyone seemed sorry when the time came. The children were 
inconsolable, and Mr. Bhaer
Going home? Ah, you are happy that you haf a home to go in,
Now, Sir, you won't forget to come and see us, 
if you ever travel our way, will you? I'll never forgive you if you do, for I want 
them all to know my friend.
Do you? Shall I come?
Yes, come next month. Laurie graduates then, and you'd enjoy 
commencement as something new.
That is your best friend, of whom you speak?
Yes, my boy Teddy. I'm very proud of him and should like you to see him.
s face 
suddenly recalled the fact that she might find Laurie more than a `best 
friend
t know what would have become of her. Fortunately the child was 
moved to hug her, so she managed to hide her face an instant, hoping the 
Professor did not see it. But he did, and his own changed again from that 
momentary anxiety to its usual expression, as he said cordially... 
"I fear I shall not make the time for that, but I wish the friend much 
success, and you all happiness. Gott bless you!" And with that, he shook 
hands warmly, shouldered Tina, and went away. 
But after the boys were abed, he sat long before his fire with the tired look 
on his face and the `heimweh
It is not for me, I must not hope it now,
t think he found that a pair of 
rampant boys, a pipe, or even the divine Plato, were very satisfactory 
substitutes for wife and child at home. 
Early as it was, he was at the station next morning to see Jo off, and thanks 
to him, she began her solitary journey with the pleasant memory of a 
familiar face smiling its farewell, a bunch of violets to keep her company, 
334
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 and best of all, the happy thought, "Well, the winter
ve written 
no books,  earned no fortune, but I
ll try 
to keep him all my life." 
335
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVE 
Whatever his motive might have been, Laurie studied to some purpose that 
year, for he graduated with honor, and gave the Latin oration with the grace 
of a Phillips and the eloquence of a Demosthenes, so his friends said. They 
were all there, his grandfather--oh, so proud--Mr. and Mrs. March,  John 
and Meg, Jo and Beth, and all exulted over him with the sincere admiration 
which boys make light of at the time, but fail to win from the world by any 
after-triumphs. 
"I
ll come and meet me as usual,  girls?" Laurie said, as he put 
the sisters into the carriage after the joys of the day were over. He said 
`girls
I'll come, Teddy, rain or shine, and march before you,  playing `Hail the 
conquering hero comes' on a jew's-harp.
Oh, 
deary me! I know he'll say something, and then what shall I do?
t be vain enough to think people were going 
to propose when she had given them every reason to know what her answer 
would be, she set forth at the appointed time, hoping Teddy wouldn
s, and a refreshing 
sniff and sip at the Daisy and Demijohn, still further fortified her for the 
tete-a-tete, but when she saw a stalwart figure looming in the distance, she 
had a strong desire to turn about and run away. 
"Where
s-harp, Jo?" cried Laurie, as soon as he was within 
speaking distance. 
"I forgot it." And Jo took heart again, for that salutation could not be called 
loverlike. 
She always used to take his arm on these occasions, now she did not, and 
he made no complaint, which was a bad sign,  but talked on rapidly about 
all sorts of faraway subjects,  till they turned from the road into the little 
path that led homeward through the grove. Then he walked more slowly, 
suddenly lost his fine flow of language, and now and then a dreadful pause 
336
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 occurred. To rescue the conversation from one of the wells of silence into 
which it kept falling, Jo said hastily, "Now you must have a good long 
holiday!" 
"I intend to." 
Something in his resolute tone made Jo look up quickly to find him looking 
down at her with an expression that assured her the dreaded moment had 
come, and made her put out her hand with an imploring, "No, Teddy. Please 
don
 

s no use, Jo, we
 he answered, getting flushed and 
excited all at once. 

ll listen," said Jo, with a desperate sort of 
patience. 
Laurie was a young lover, but he was in earnest, and meant to `have it out
I've loved you ever since I've known 
you, Jo, couldn't help it, you've been so good to me. I've tried to show it, but 
you wouldn't let me. Now I'm going to make you hear, and give me an 
answer, for I can't go on so any longer.
I wanted to save you this. I thought you'd understand... began Jo, finding it 
a great deal harder than she expected. 

 returned Laurie,  entrenching himself behind an undeniable 
fact. 

t. I never wanted to make you care for me so, and I went away to keep 
you from it if I could." 
"I thought so. It was like you, but it was no use. I only loved you all the 
more, and I worked hard to please you,  and I gave up billiards and 
everything you didn
d love me, though I
 Here there was a choke 
that couldn't be controlled, so he decapitated buttercups while he cleared 
his `confounded throat'. 
337
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
re a great deal too good for me, and I
t know why I can
ve tried, but I can
t." 
"Really, truly, Jo?" 
He stopped short, and caught both her hands as he put his question with a 
look that she did not soon forget. 
"Really, truly, dear." 
They were in the grove now, close by the stile, and when the last words fell 
reluctantly from Jo
Oh, Teddy, I'm sorry, so desperately sorry, I could kill myself if it would do 
any good! I wish you wouldn't take it so hard, I can't help it. You know it's 
impossible for people to make themselves love other people if they don't,
They do sometimes,
I don't believe it's 
the right sort of love, and I'd rather not try it,
Laurie, I want to tell you 
something.
Don't tell me that, Jo, I can't bear it now!
Tell what?
That you love that old man.
What old man?
That devilish Professor you were always writing about. If you say you love 
him, I know I shall do something desperate.
Don't swear,  Teddy! He isn't old, nor 
338
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 anything bad, but good and kind, and the best friend I've got, next to you. 
Pray, don't fly into a passion. I want to be kind, but I know I shall get angry 
if you abuse my Professor. I haven't the least idea of loving him or anybody 
else.
But you will after a while, and then what will become of me?
You'll love someone else too, like a sensible boy, and forget all this trouble.
I can't love anyone else, and I'll never forget you, Jo,  Never! Never!
What shall I do with him?
You haven't heard what I wanted to tell 
you. Sit down and listen, for indeed I want to do right and make you happy,
s part, for how could she say hard things 
to her boy while he watched her with eyes full of love and longing,  and 
lashes still wet with the bitter drop or two her hardness of heart had wrung 
from him? She gently turned his head away,  saying, as she stroked the 
wavy hair which had been allowed to grow for her sake--how touching that 
was, to be sure! "I agree with Mother that you and I are not suited to each 
other, because our quick tempers and strong wills would probably make us 
very miserable, if we were so foolish as to..." Jo paused a little over the last 
word, but Laurie uttered it with a rapturous expression. 
"Marry--no we shouldn
 

t. I
t risk our happiness by such a 
serious experiment. We don
ll be good 
friends all our lives, but we won
 

 muttered Laurie rebelliously. 

 implored Jo, 
almost at her wit's end. 
339
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
t be reasonable. I don
. It 
won
t believe you
 

t." 
There was a little quiver in Jo
Don't disappoint us, dear! Everyone expects it. Grandpa has set his heart 
upon it, your people like it, and I can't get on without you. Say you will, and 
let's be happy. Do, do!
I can't say `yes' truly, so I won't say it at all. You'll see that I'm right, by
and-by, and thank me for it...
I'll be hanged if I do!
Yes, you will!
You'll get over this after a while, and find some 
lovely accomplished girl, who will adore you, and make a fine mistress for 
your fine house. I shouldn't. I'm homely and awkward and odd and old, and 
you'd be ashamed of me, and we should quarrel--we can't help it even now, 
you see-and I shouldn't like elegant society and you would, and you'd hate 
my scribbling, and I couldn't get on without it, and we should be unhappy, 
and wish we hadn't done it, and everything would be horrid!
Anything more?
Nothing more, except that I don't believe I shall ever marry. I'm happy as I 
am, and love my liberty too well to be in a hurry to give it up for any mortal 
man.
I know better!
You think so now,  but there'll come a time 
when you will care for somebody, and you'll love him tremendously, and live 
and die for him. I know you will, it's your way, and I shall have to stand by 
and see it.
Yes, I will live and die for him, if her ever comes and makes me love him in 
spite of myself, and you must do the best you can!
I've done my best, but you won't be reasonable, and it's 
selfish of you to keep teasing for what I can't give. I shall always be fond of 
you, very fond indeed, as a friend, but I'll never marry you, and the sooner 
you believe it the better for both of us--so now!
You'll be sorry some day, Jo.
Oh, where are you going?
To the devil!
s heart stood still, as he swung himself down the bank 
toward the river, but it takes much folly, sin or misery to send a young man 
to a violent death, and Laurie was not one of the weak sort who are 
conquered by a single failure. He had no thought of a melodramatic plunge, 
but some blind instinct led him to fling hat and coat into his boat,  and row 
away with all his might, making better time up the river than he had done in 
any race. Jo drew a long breath and unclasped her hands as she watched 
the poor fellow trying to outstrip the trouble which he carried in his heart. 
"That will do him good, and he
t dare to see him." she said, adding, as she went slowly 
home, feeling as if she had murdered some innocent thing, and buried it 
under the leaves. "Now I must go and prepare Mr. Laurence to be very kind 
to my poor boy. I wish he
s dreadful." Being sure that no one could do it so 
well as herself, she went straight to Mr. Laurence, told the hard story 
bravely through, and then broke down, crying so dismally over her own 
insensibility that the kind old gentleman, though sorely disappointed, did 
not utter a reproach. He found it difficult to understand how any girl could 
help loving Laurie, and hoped she would change her mind, but he knew 
even better than Jo that love cannot be forced, so he shook his head sadly 
and resolved to carry his boy out of harm
s 
parting words to Jo disturbed him more than he would confess. 
When Laurie came home, dead tired but quite composed, his grandfather 
met him as if he knew nothing, and kept up the delusion very successfully 
for an hour or two. But when they sat together in the twilight, the time they 
341
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 used to enjoy so much, it was hard work for the old man to ramble on as 
usual,  and harder still for the young one to listen to praises of the last 
year
s labor lost. He bore it as 
long as he could, then went to his piano and began to play. The window
,  and 
played it as he never did before. 
"That
s sad enough to make one cry. Give us 
something gayer, lad," said Mr. Laurence,  whose kind old heart was full of 
sympathy, which he longed to show but knew not how. 
Laurie dashed into a livelier strain, played stormily for several minutes, and 
would have got through bravely, if in a momentary lull Mrs. March
Jo, dear, come in. I want you.
I can't stand this,
I know, my boy, I know.
Who told you?
Jo herself.
Then there's an end of it!
s hands with an 
impatient motion, for though grateful for the sympathy, his man
s pity. 
"Not quite. I want to say one thing, and then there shall be an end of it," 
returned Mr. Laurence with unusual mildness. "You won
 

t intend to run away from a girl. Jo can
 interrupted Laurie in a defiant tone. 

m disappointed, but the girl can
 

t care what becomes of me." And Laurie got up with a 
reckless laugh that grated on his grandfather
Take it like a man, and don't do anything rash, for God's sake. Why not go 
abroad, as you planned, and forget it?
I can't.
But you've been wild to go, and I promised you should when you got 
through college.
Ah, but I didn't mean to go alone!
I don't ask you to go alone. There's someone ready and glad to go with you, 
anywhere in the world.
Who, Sir?' stopping to listen. 

 
Laurie came back as quickly as he went, and put out his hand, saying 
huskily, 
m a selfish brute, but--you know-Grandfather--" 
"Lord help me, yes, I do know, for I
s all settled, and can be carried out at 
once," said Mr. Laurence,  keeping hold of the young man, as if fearful that 
he would break away as his father had done before him. 
"Well, sir, what is it?" And Laurie sat down, without a sign of interest in face 
or voice. 
"There is business in London that needs looking after. I meant you should 
attend to it, but I can do it better myself,  and things here will get on very 
well with Brooke to manage them. My partners do almost everything, I
 

t ask it of you at your age," began Laurie, 
who was grateful for the sacrifice,  but much preferred to go alone, if he 
went at all. The old gentleman knew that perfectly well, and particularly 
desired to prevent it, for the mood in which he found his grandson assured 
him that it would not be wise to leave him to his own devices. So, stifling a 
natural regret at the thought of the home comforts he would leave behind 
him, he said stoutly,  Bless your soul, I
t suffer, for 
traveling nowadays is almost as easy as sitting in a chair." 
343
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 A restless movement from Laurie suggested that his chair was not easy, or 
that he did not like the plan, and made the old man add hastily, "I don
d feel happier 
than if I was left behind. I don
ve friends in 
London and Paris, and should like to visit them. Meantime you can go to 
Italy, Germany, Switzerland, where you will, and enjoy pictures, music, 
scenery,  and adventures to your heart
 
Now, Laurie felt just then that his heart was entirely broken and the world a 
howling wilderness, but at the sound of certain words which the old 
gentleman artfully introduced into his closing sentence, the broken heart 
gave an unexpected leap, and a green oasis or two suddenly appeared in the 
howling wilderness. He sighed, and then said, in a spiritless tone,  
t matter where I go or what I do." 
"It does to me, remember that, my lad. I give you entire liberty, but I trust 
you to make an honest use of it. Promise me that, Laurie." 
"Anything you like, Sir." 
"Good," thought the old gentleman. "You don
ll come a 
time when that promise will keep you out of mischief, or I
 
Being an energetic individual, Mr. Laurence struck while the iron was hot, 
and before the blighted being recovered spirit enough to rebel, they were off. 
During the time necessary for preparation, Laurie bore himself as young 
gentleman usually do in such cases. He was moody, irritable, and pensive 
by turns,  lost his appetite, neglected his dress and devoted much time to 
playing tempestuously on his piano, avoided Jo, but consoled himself by 
staring at her from his window, with a tragic face that haunted her dreams 
by night and oppressed her with a heavy sense of guilt by day. Unlike some 
sufferers, he never spoke of his unrequited passion, and would allow no one, 
not even Mrs. March, to attempt consolation or offer sympathy. On some 
accounts, this was a relief to his friends, but the weeks before his departure 
were very uncomfortable, and everyone rejoiced that the `poor, dear fellow 
was going away to forget his trouble, and come home happy'. Of course, he 
smiled darkly at their delusion, but passed it by with the sad superiority of 
one who knew that his fidelity like his love was unalterable. 
When the parting came he affected high spirits, to conceal certain 
inconvenient emotions which seemed inclined to assert themselves. This 
344
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 gaiety did not impose upon anybody, but they tried to look as if it did for his 
sake, and he got on very well till Mrs. March kissed him, whit a whisper full 
of motherly solicitude. Then feeling that he was going very fast, he hastily 
embraced them all round, not forgetting the afflicted Hannah, and ran 
downstairs as if for his life. Jo followed a minute after to wave her hand to 
him if he looked round. He did look round, came back, put his arms about 
her as she stood on the step above him,  and looked up at her with a face 
that made his short appeal eloquent and pathetic. 

t you?" 
"Teddy, dear, I wish I could!" 
That was all, except a little pause. Then Laurie straightened himself up, 
said, "It
 and went away without another word. Ah, 
but it wasn't all right, and Jo did mind, for while the curly head lay on her 
arm a minute after her hard answer,  she felt as if she had stabbed her 
dearest friend, and when he left her without a look behind him, she knew 
that the boy Laurie never would come again. 
345
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER THIRTY-SIX 
When Jo came home that spring, she had been struck with the change in 
Beth. No one spoke of it or seemed aware of it,  for it had come too gradually 
to startle those who saw her daily, but to eyes sharpened by absence, it was 
very plain and a heavy weight fell on Jo's heart as she saw her sister's face. 
It was no paler and but littler thinner than in the autumn, yet there was a 
strange, transparent look about it, as if the mortal was being slowly refined 
away, and the immortal shining through the frail flesh with an indescribably 
pathetic beauty. Jo saw and felt it, but said nothing at the time, and soon 
the first impression lost much of its power, for Beth seemed happy, no one 
appeared to doubt that she was better, and presently in other cares Jo fora 
time forgot her fear. 
But when Laurie was gone, and peace prevailed again, the vague anxiety 
returned and haunted her. She had confessed her sins and been forgiven, 
but when she showed her savings and proposed a mountain trip, Beth had 
thanked her heartily,  but begged not to go so far away from home. Another 
little visit to the seashore would suit her better, and as Grandma could not 
be prevailed upon to leave the babies, Jo took Beth down to the quiet place, 
where she could live much in the open air, and let the fresh sea breezes 
blow a little color into her pale cheeks. 
It was not a fashionable place, but even among the pleasant people there, 
the girls made few friends, preferring to live for one another. Beth was too 
shy to enjoy society, and Jo too wrapped up in her to care for anyone else. 
So they were all in all to each other, and came and went, quite unconscious 
of the interest they exited in those about them, who watched with 
sympathetic eyes the strong sister and the feeble one, always together, as if 
they felt instinctively that a long separation was not far away. 
They did feel it, yet neither spoke of it, for often between ourselves and those 
nearest and dearest to us there exists a reserve which it is very hard to 
overcome. Jo felt as if a veil had fallen between her heart and Beth's, but 
when she put out her hand to lift it up, there seemed something sacred in 
the silence, and she waited for Beth to speak. She wondered, and was 
thankful also, that her parents did not seem to see what she saw, and 
during the quiet weeks when the shadows grew so plain to her, she said 
nothing of it to those at home, believing that it would tell itself when Beth 
came back no better. She wondered still more if her sister really guessed the 
hard truth, and what thoughts were passing through her mind during the 
346
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 long hours when she lay on the warm rocks with her head in Jo's lap, while 
the winds blew healthfully over her and the sea made music at her feet. 
One day Beth told her. Jo thought she was asleep, she lay so still, and 
putting down her book, sat looking at her with wistful eyes, trying to see 
signs of hope in the faint color on Beth's cheeks. But she could not find 
enough to satisfy her,  for the cheeks were very thin, and the hands seemed 
too feeble to hold even the rosy little shells they had been collecting. It came 
to her then more bitterly than ever that Beth was slowly drifting away form 
her, and her arms instinctively tightened their hold upon the dearest 
treasure she possessed. For a minute her eyes were too dim for seeing, and 
when they cleared, Beth was looking up at her so tenderly that there was 
hardly any need for her to say, 
m glad you know it. I
t." 
There was no answer except her sister
I've known it for a good while, dear, and now I'm used to it, it isn't hard to 
think of or to bear. Try to see it so and don't be troubled about me, because 
it's best, indeed it is.
Is this what made you so unhappy in the autumn, Beth? You did not feel it 
then, land keep it to yourself so long, did you?
s 
trouble. 
"Yes, I gave up hoping then, but I didn
 

t tell me, didn
 
Jo's voice was full of tender reproach, and her heart ached to think of the 
solitary struggle that must have gone on while Beth learned to say goodbye 
to health, love, and live, and take up her cross so cheerfully. 

t sure,  no one said 
anything, and I hoped I was mistaken. It would have been selfish to frighten 
347
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 you all when Marmee was so anxious about Meg, and Amy away, and you so 
happy with Laurie--at least I thought so then." 
"And I thought you loved him, Beth, and I went away because I couldn
 
cried Jo, glad to say all the truth. 
Beth looked so amazed at the idea that Jo smiled in spite of her pain, and 
added softly, 
t, dearie? I was afraid it was so, and imagined 
your poor little heart full of lovelornity all that while." 
"Why, Jo, how could I, when he was so fond of you?" asked Beth, as 
innocently as a child. "I do love him dearly. He is so good to me, how can I 
help It? But he could never be anything to me but my brother. I hope he 
truly will be, sometime." 
"Not through me," said Jo decidedly. "Amy is left for him,  and they would 
suit excellently, but I have no heart for such things, now. I don
 

s like the tide, Jo, when it turns, it 
goes slowly, but it can
 

t let you go. I
ll keep you in 
spite of everything. There must be ways, it can
t be so 
cruel as to take you from me," cried poor Jo rebelliously, for her spirit was 
far less piously submissive than Beth
I'm glad to go,
I try to be willing,
You'll tell them this when we 
go home?
I think they will see it without words,
Perhaps not. I've heard that the people who love best are often blindest to 
such things. If they don't see it, you will tell them for me. I don't want any 
secrets, and it's kinder to prepare them. Meg has John and the babies to 
comfort her, but you must stand by Father and Mother, won't you Jo?
If I can. But, Beth, I don't give up yet. I'm going to believe that it is a sick 
fancy, and not let you think it's true.
I don't know 
how to express myself, and shouldn't try to anyone but you, because I can't 
speak out except to my Jo. I only mean to say that I have a feeling that it 
never was intended I should live long. I'm not like the rest of you. I never 
made any plans about what I'd do when I grew up. I never thought of being 
married, as you all did. I couldn't seem to imagine myself anything but 
stupid little Beth, trotting about at home, of no use anywhere but there. I 
never wanted to go away, and the hard part now is the leaving you all. I'm 
not afraid, but it seems as if I should be homesick for you even in heaven.
 softly to itself, as if enjoying the sun and sea. It 
came quite close to Beth, and looked at her with a friendly eye and sat upon 
a warm stone, dressing its wet feathers, quite at home. Beth smiled and felt 
comforted, for the tiny thing seemed to offer its small friendship and remind 
her that a pleasant world was still to be enjoyed. 
"Dear little bird! See, Jo, how tame it is. I like peeps better than the gulls. 
They are not so wild and handsome, but they seem happy, confiding little 
things. I used to call them my birds last summer, and Mother said they 
reminded her of me --busy, quaker-colored creatures, always near the shore, 
and always chirping that contented little song of theirs. You are the gull, Jo, 
strong and wild, fond of the storm and the wind,  flying far out to sea, and 
happy all alone. Meg is the turtledove, and Amy is like the lark she write 
about, trying to get up among the clouds, but always dropping down into its 
nest again. Dear little girl! She
 

m going to have you well and rosy by that time." began Jo, 
feeling that of all the changes in Beth, the talking change was the greatest, 
for it seemed to cost no effort now, and she thought aloud in a way quite 
unlike bashful Beth. 
"Jo, dear, don
t do any good. I
t be miserable, but enjoy being together while we wait. We
t suffer much,  and I think the tide will go out easily, if you 
help me." 
Jo leaned down to kiss the tranquil face, and with that silent kiss, she 
dedicated herself soul and body to Beth. 
She was right. There was no need of any words when they got home, for 
Father and Mother saw plainly now what they had prayed to be saved from 
seeing. Tired with her short journey,  Beth went at once to bed, saying how 
glad she was to be home,  and when Jo went down, she found that she 
would be spared the hard task of telling Beth
clock in the afternoon, all the fashionable world at Nice may be 
seen on the Promenade des Anglais--a charming place,  for the wide walk, 
bordered with palms, flowers, and tropical shrubs,  is bounded on one side 
by the sea, on the other by the grand drive,  lined with hotels and villas, 
while beyond lie orange orchards and the hills. Many nations are 
represented, many languages spoken, many costumes worn, and on a sunny 
day the spectacle is as gay and brilliant as a carnival. Haughty English, 
lively French, sober Germans,  handsome Spaniards, ugly Russians, meek 
Jews, free-and-easy Americans,  all drive, sit, or saunter here, chatting over 
the news, and criticzing the latest celebrity who has arrived--Ristori or 
Dickens, Victor Emmanuel or the Queen of the Sandwich Islands. The 
equipages are as varied as the company and attract as much attention, 
especially the low basket barouches in which ladies drive themselves, with a 
pair of dashing ponies, gay nets to keep their voluminous flounces from 
overflowing the diminutive vehicles, and little grooms on the perch behind. 
Along this walk, on Christmas Day, a tall young man walked slowly, with his 
hands behind him, and a somewhat absent expression of countenance. He 
looked like an Italian, was dressed like an Englishman, and had the 
independent air of an American--a combination which caused sundry pairs 
of feminine eyes to look approvingly after him, and sundry dandies in black 
velvet suits, with rose-colored neckties, buff gloves, and orange flowers in 
their buttonholes, to shrug their shoulders, and then envy him his inches. 
There were plenty of pretty faces to admire, but the young man took little 
notice of them, except to glance now and then at some blonde girl in blue. 
Presently he strolled out of the promenade and stood a moment at the 
crossing, as if undecided whether to go and listen to the band in the Jardin 
Publique, or to wander along the beach toward Castle Hill. The quick trot of 
ponies feet made him look up, as one of the little carriages, containing a 
single young lady, came rapidly down the street. The lady was young,  
blonde, and dressed in blue. He stared a minute, then his whole face woke 
up, and, waving his hat like a boy, he hurried forward to meet her. 
"Oh, Laurie, is it really you? I thought you
 cried Amy, 
dropping the reins and holding out both hands, to the great scandalization 
of a French mamma, who hastened her daughter's steps, lest she should be 
demoralized by beholding the free manners of these `mad English'. 
351
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
 

 

 

t know where to begin! Get in and we can talk 
at our ease. I was going for a drive and longing for company. Flo
 

 

ll go with us,  of course? Aunt will be 
charmed." 
"Thank you. Where now?" asked Laurie, leaning back and folding his arms, 
a proceeding which suited Amy, who preferred to drive, for her parasol whip 
and blue reins over the white ponies backs afforded her infinite satisfaction. 
"I
 

t mind having a look at it." 
"Now tell me all about yourself. The last I heard of you,  your grandfather 
wrote that he expected you from Berlin." "Yes, I spent a month there and 
then joined him in Paris,  where he has settled for the winter. He has friends 
there and finds plenty to amuse him, so I go and come, and we got on 
capitally." 
"That
 said Amy, missing something in Laurie's 
manner, though she couldn't tell what. 

t it?" he added, with a look of 
disgust as they drove along the boulevard to the Place Napoleon in the old 
city. 
"The dirt is picturesque, so I don
s going to the 
Church of St. John." 
While Laurie listlessly watched the procession of priests under their 
canopies, white-veiled nuns bearing lighted tapers,  and some brotherhood 
in blue chanting as they walked, Amy watched him, and felt a new sort of 
shyness steal over her, for he was changed, and she could not find the 
merry-faced boy she left in the moody-looking man beside her. He was 
handsomer than ever and greatly improved, she thought, but now that the 
flush of pleasure at meeting her was over, he looked tired and spiritless--not 
sick,  nor exactly unhappy, but older and graver than a year or two of 
prosperous life should have made him. She couldn
Que pensez-vous?
That mademoiselle has made good use of her time, and the result is 
charming,
, with 
a hearty smile and an approving pat on the head. She didn
If that's the way he's going to grow up, I wish he's stay a boy,
s she found the precious home letters and, giving the reins to 
Laurie, read them luxuriously as they wound up the shady road between 
green hedges, where tea roses bloomed as freshly as in June. 
"Beth is very poorly, Mother says. I often think I ought to go home, but they 
all say `stay
 said 
Amy, looking sober over one page. 

 
353
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 He drew a little nearer, and looked more like his old self as he said that, and 
the fear that sometimes weighed on Amy's heart was lightened, for the look, 
the act, the brotherly `my dear',  seemed to assure her that if any trouble did 
come, she would not be alone in a strange land. Presently she laughed and 
showed him a small sketch of Jo in her scribbling suit, with the bow 
rampantly erect upon her cap, and issuing from her mouth the words, 
`Genius burns!'. 
Laurie smiled, took it, put it in his vest pocket `to keep it from blowing 
away', and listened with interest to the lively letter Amy read him. 

 said Amy, 
as they alighted among the ruins of the old fort,  and a flock of splendid 
peacocks came trooping about them, tamely waiting to be fed. While Amy 
stood laughing on the bank above him as she scattered crumbs to the 
brilliant birds, Laurie looked at her as she had looked at him, with a natural 
curiosity to see what changes time and absence had wrought. He found 
nothing to perplex or disappoint, much to admire and approve, for 
overlooking a few little affectations of speech and manner, she was as 
sprightly and graceful as ever, with the addition of that indescribable 
something in dress and bearing which we call elegance. Always mature for 
her age, she had gained a certain aplomb in both carriage and conversation,  
which made her seem more of a woman of the world than she was, but her 
old petulance now and then showed itself, her strong will still held its own, 
and her native frankness was unspoiled by foreign polish. 
Laurie did not read all this while he watched her feed the peacocks, but he 
saw enough to satisfy and interest him, and carried away a pretty little 
picture of a bright-faced girl standing in the sunshine, which brought out 
the soft hue of her dress, the fresh color of her cheeks, the golden gloss of 
her hair, and made her a prominent figure in the pleasant scene. 
As they came up onto the stone plateau that crowns the hill,  Amy waved 
her hand as if welcoming him to her favorite haunt, and said, pointing here 
and there, 
s Tower, just below, and best of all, that speck far out to sea which 
they say ils Corsica?" 
"I remember. It
 he answered without enthusiasm. 
354
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
 said Amy, feeling in 
good spirits and anxious to see him so also. 

 was all he said, but he turned and strained his eyes to see the island 
which a greater usurper than even Napoleon now made interesting in his 
sight. 

 said Amy, seating herself, 
ready for a good talk. 
But she did not get it, for though he joined her and answered all her 
questions freely, she could only learn that he had roved about the Continent 
and been to Greece. So after idling away an hour, they drove home again, 
and having paid his respects to Mrs. Carrol, Laurie left them, promising to 
return in the evening. 
It must be recorded of Amy that she deliberately prinked that night. Time 
and absence had done its work on both the young people. She had seen her 
old friend in a new light, not as `our boy', but as a handsome and agreeable 
man, and she was conscious of a very natural desire to find favor in his 
sight. Amy knew her good points, and made the most of them with the taste 
and skill which is a fortune to a poor and pretty woman. 
Tarlatan and tulle were cheap at Nice, so she enveloped herself in them on 
such occasions, and following the sensible English fashion of simple dress 
for young girls, got up charming little toilettes with fresh flowers, a few 
trinkets, and all manner of dainty devices,  which were both inexpensive and 
effective. It must be confessed that the artist sometimes got possession of 
the woman, and indulged in antique coiffures, statuesque attitudes, and 
classic draperies. But, dear heart, we all have out little weaknesses, and find 
it easy to pardon such in the young, who satisfy our eyes with their 
comeliness, and keep our hearts merry with their artless vanities. 

 said Amy to 
herself, as she put on Flo's old white silk ball dress,  and covered it with a 
cloud of fresh illusion, out of which her white shoulders and golden head 
emerged with a most artistic effect. Her hair she had the sense to let alone, 
after gathering up the thick waves and curls into a Hebe-like knot at the 
back of her head. 

s not the fashion, but it
t afford to make a fright of 
myself," she used to say, when advised to frizzle,  puff, or braid, as the latest 
style commanded. 
355
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 Having no ornaments fine enough for this important occasion,  Amy looped 
her fleecy skirts with rosy clusters of azalea, and framed the white shoulders 
in delicate green vines. Remembering the painted boots, she surveyed her 
white satin slippers with girlish satisfaction, and chassed down the room, 
admiring her aristocratic feet all by herself. 
"My new fan just matches my flowers, my gloves fit to a charm,  and the real 
lace on Aunt
 she said, surveying 
herself with a critical eye and a candle in each hand. 
In spite of this affliction, she looked unusually gay and graceful as she 
glided away. She seldom ran--it did not suit her style, she thought, for being 
tall, the stately and Junoesque was more appropriate than the sportive or 
piquante. She walked up and down the long saloon while waiting for Laurie, 
and once arranged herself under the chandelier, which had a good effect 
upon her hair, then she thought better of it, and went away to the other end 
of the room, as if ashamed of the girlish desire to have the first view a 
propitious one. It so happened that she could not have done a better thing, 
for Laurie came in so quietly she did not hear him, and as she stood at the 
distant window, with her head half turned and one hand gathering up her 
dress, the slender, white figure against the red curtains was as effective as a 
well-placed statue. 

 said Laurie, with the look of satisfaction she liked to 
see in his eyes when they rested on her. 

 she answered, smiling back at him, for he too looked 
unusually debonair, and the thought of entering the ballroom on the arm of 
such a personable man caused Amy to pity the four plain Misses Davis from 
the bottom of her heart. 

t 
like what Hannah calls a `sot-bookay
s window. 
"How kind you are!" she exclaimed gratefully. "If I
d have had something ready for you today,  though not as pretty as this, 
I
 

t what it should be, but you have improved it," he added, 
as she snapped the silver bracelet on her wrist. 
356
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Please don
 

 

t sound natural, and I like your old bluntness 
better." 
"I
 he answered, with a look of relief, then buttoned her gloves 
for her, and asked if his tie was straight,  just as he used to do when they 
went to parties together at home. 
The company assembled in the long salle a manger that evening was such 
as one sees nowhere but on the Continent. The hospitable Americans had 
invited every acquaintance they had in Nice, and having no prejudice 
against titles, secured a few to add luster to their Christmas ball. 
A Russian prince condescended to sit in a corner for an hour and talk with a 
massive lady, dressed like Hamlet's mother in black velvet with a pearl 
bridle under her chin. A Polish count, aged eighteen, devoted himself to the 
ladies, who pronounced him, `a fascinating dear', and a German Serene 
Something,  having come to supper alone, roamed vaguely about, seeking 
what he might devour. Baron Rothschild's private secretary, a largenosed 
Jew in tight boots, affably beamed upon the world, as if his master's name 
crowned him with a golden halo. A stout Frenchman, who knew the 
Emperor, came to indulge his mania for dancing, and Lady de Jones, a 
British matron, adorned the scene with her little family of eight. Of course, 
there were many light-footed, shrill-voiced American girls, handsome, 
lifeless-looking English ditto, and a few plain but piquante French 
demoiselles, likewise the usual set of traveling young gentlemen who 
disported themselves gaily, while mammas of all nations lined the walls and 
smiled upon them benignly when they danced with their daughters. 
Any young girl can imagine Amy's state of mind when she `took the stage' 
that night, leaning on Laurie's arm. She knew she looked well, she loved to 
dance, she felt that her foot was on her native heath in a ballroom, and 
enjoyed the delightful sense of power which comes when young girls first 
discover the new and lovely kingdom they are born to rule by virtue of 
beauty, youth, and womanhood. She did pity the Davis girls, who were 
awkward, plain, and destitute of escort,  except a grim papa and three 
grimmer maiden aunts, and she bowed to them in her friendliest manner as 
she passed, which was good of her, as it permitted them to see her dress, 
and burn with curiosity to know who her distinguished-looking friend might 
be. With the first burst of the band, Amy's color rose, her eyes began to 
357
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 sparkle, and her feet to tap the floor impatiently, for she danced well and 
wanted Laurie to know it. Therefore the shock she received can better be 
imagined than described, when he said in a perfectly tranquil tone, 
 

 
Her amazed look and quick answer caused Laurie to repair his error as fast 
as possible. 

 

 said Amy, hoping that the name would 
have a good effect, and show Laurie that she was not to be trifled with. 

 
was all the satisfaction she got, however. 
The set in which they found themselves was composed of English, and Amy 
was compelled to walk decorously through a cotillion, feeling all the while as 
if she could dance the tarantella with relish. Laurie resigned her to the `nice 
little boy', and went to do his duty to Flo, without securing Amy for the joys 
to come, which reprehensible want of forethought was properly punished, 
for she immediately engaged herself till supper, meaning to relent if he then 
gave any signs penitence. She showed him her ball book with demure 
satisfaction when he strolled instead of rushed up to claim her for the next, 
a glorious polka redowa. But his polite regrets didn't impose upon her, and 
when she galloped away with the Count, she saw Laurie sit down by her 
aunt with an actual expression of relief. 
That was unpardonable, and Amy took no more notice of him for a long 
while, except a word now and then when she came to her chaperon between 
the dances for a necessary pin or a moment's rest. Her anger had a good 
effect, however, for she hid it under a smiling face, and seemed unusually 
blithe and brilliant. Laurie's eyes followed her with pleasure, for she neither 
romped nor sauntered, but danced with spirit and grace, making the 
delightsome pastime what it should be. He very naturally fell to studying her 
from this new point of view, and before the evening was half over, had 
decided that `little Amy was going to make a very charming woman'. 
358
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 It was a lively scene, for soon the spirit of the social season took possession 
of everyone, and Christmas merriment made all faces shine, hearts happy, 
and heels light. The musicians fiddled, tooted, and banged as if they enjoyed 
it, everybody danced who could, and those who couldn't admired their 
neighbors with uncommon warmth. The air was dark with Davises,  and 
many Jones gamboled like a flock of young giraffes. The golden secretary 
darted through the room like a meteor with a dashing frenchwoman who 
carped the floor with her pink satin train. The serene Teuton found the 
supper table and was happy,  eating steadily through the bill of fare, and 
dismayed the garcons by the ravages he committed. But the Emperor's 
friend covered himself with glory, for he danced everything, whether he knew 
it or not, and introduced impromptu pirouettes when the figures bewildered 
him. The boyish abandon of that stout man was charming to behold, for 
though he `carried weight', he danced like an India-rubber ball. He ran, he 
flew, he pranced,  his face glowed, his bald head shown, his coattails waved 
wildly,  his pumps actually twinkled in the air, and when the music stopped, 
he wiped the drops from his brow, and beamed upon his fellow men like a 
French Pickwick without glasses. 
Amy and her Pole distinguished themselves by equal enthusiasm but more 
graceful agility, and Laurie found himself involuntarily keeping time to the 
rhythmic rise and fall of the white slippers as they flew by as indefatigably 
as if winged. When little Vladimir finally relinquished her, with assurances 
that he was `desolated to leave so early', she was ready to rest, and see how 
her recreant knight had borne his punishment. 
It had been successful, for at three-and-twenty, blighted affections find a 
balm in friendly society, and young nerves will thrill, young blood dance, 
and healthy young spirits rise,  when subjected to the enchantment of 
beauty, light, music, and motion. Laurie had a waked-up look as he rose to 
give her his seat, and when he hurried away to bring her some supper, she 
said to herself, with a satisfied smile, 
 

s `FEMME PEINTE PAR ELLE-NENE
 he said, as he 
fanned her with one hand and held her coffee cup in the other. 

t come off." And Amy rubbed her brilliant cheek, and showed 
him her white glove with a sober simplicity that made him laugh outright. 
"What do you call this stuff?" he asked, touching a fold of her dress that had 
blown over his knee. 
359
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Illusion." 
"Good name for it. It
t it?" 
"It
 

 

d rather take coffee than compliments just 
now. No, don
 
Laurie sat bold upright, and meekly took her empty plate feeling an odd sort 
of pleasure in having `little Amy' order him about, for she had lost her 
shyness now, and felt an irrestible desire to trample on him, as girls have a 
delightful way of doing when lords of creation show any signs of subjection. 

 he asked with a quizzical look. 

 is rather a vague expression, would you kindly 
explain?" returned Amy, knowing perfectly well what he meant, but wickedly 
leaving him to describe what is indescribable. 
"Well--the general air, the style, the self-possession, the-- the--illusion--you 
know", laughed Laurie, breaking down and helping himself out of his 
quandary with the new word. 
Amy was gratified, but of course didn
Foreign life polishes one in spite of one's self. I study as well as play, and as 
for this
why, tulle is cheap, posies 
to be had for nothing, and I am used to making the most of my poor little 
things.
t in good taste, but 
Laurie liked her better for it, and found himself both admiring and 
respecting the brave patience that made the most of opportunity, and the 
cheerful spirit that covered poverty with flowers. Amy did not know why he 
looked at her so kindly, now why he filled up her book with his own name, 
and devoted himself to her for the rest of the evening in the most delightful 
manner,  but the impulse that wrought this agreeable change was the result 
of one of the new impressions which both of them were unconsciously giving 
and receiving. 
360
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER THIRTY-EIGHT 
In France the young girls have a dull time of it till they are married, when 
`Vive la liberte!
I'm as 
handsome as ever, but no one takes any notice of me because I'm married.
, kept him on short commons. When he went out in the 
morning he was bewildered by small commissions for the captive mamma, if 
he came gaily in at night, eager to embrace his family, he was quenched by a 
"Hush! They are just asleep after worrying all day." If he proposed a little 
amusement at home,  "No, it would disturb the babies." If he hinted at a 
lecture or a concert, he was answered with a reproachful look, and a decided 
"Leave my children for pleasure, never!" His sleep was broken by infant wails 
and visions of a phantom figure pacing noiselessly to and fro in the watches 
of the night. His meals were interrupted by the frequent flight of the 
presiding genius,  who deserted him, half-helped, if a muffled chirp sounded 
from the nest above. And when he read his paper of an evening,  Demi
s fall affected the price of stocks, for 
Mrs. Brooke was only interested in domestic news. 
361
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 The poor man was very uncomfortable, for the children had bereft him of his 
wife, home was merely a nursery and the perpetual `hushing
s 
society. 
Meg rather approved of the new arrangement at first, and found it a relief to 
know that John was having a good time instead of dozing in the parlor, or 
tramping about the house and waking the children. But by-and-by, when 
the teething worry was over and the idols went to sleep at proper hours,  
leaving Mamma time to rest, she began to miss John, and find her 
workbasket dull company, when he was not sitting opposite in his old 
dressing gown, comfortably scorching his slippers on the fender. She would 
not ask him to stay at home, but felt injured because he did not know that 
she wanted him without being told, entirely forgetting the many evenings he 
had waited for her in vain. She was nervous and worn out with watching 
and worry, and in that unreasonable frame of mind which the best of 
mothers occasionally experience when domestic cares oppress them. Want 
of exercise robs them of cheerfulness, and too much devotion to that idol of 
American women, the teapot, makes them feel as if they were all nerve and 
no muscle. 
"Yes," she would say, looking in the glass, "I
t find me interesting any longer, so he leaves his faded wife and goes 
to see his pretty neighbor,  who has no incumbrances. Well, the babies love 
me, they don
t time to crimp my hair,  
they are my comfort, and some day John will see what I
t he, my precious?" 
To which pathetic appeal daisy would answer with a coo,  or Demi with a 
crow, and Meg would put by her lamentations for a maternal revel, which 
362
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 soothed her solitude for the time being. But the pain increased as politics 
absorbed John, who was always running over to discuss interesting points 
with Scott, quite unconscious that Meg missed him. Not a word did she say, 
however, till her mother found her in tears one day, and insisted on knowing 
what the matter was, for Meg
I wouldn't tell anyone except you, Mother, but I really do need advice, for if 
John goes on much longer I might as well be widowed,
s bib with an injured air. 
"Goes on how, my dear?" asked her mother anxiously. 
"He
. It isn
 

t blame John till you see where you are wrong yourself." 
"But it can
 

t you neglect him?" 
"Why, Mother, I thought you
 

 

t see how." 
"Let me show you. Did John ever neglect you, as you call it,  while you made 
it a point to give him your society of an evening,  his only leisure time?" 
"No, but I can
 

s Mother who blames as well as Mother who 
sympathizes?" 
"Indeed I will! Speak to me as if I were little Meg again. I often feel as if I 
needed teaching more than ever since these babies look to me for 
everything." 
Meg drew her low chair beside her mother
You have only made the mistake that most young wives make-forgotten 
your duty to your husband in your love for your children.  A very natural 
and forgivable mistake, Meg, but one that had better be remedied before you 
take to different ways, for children should draw you nearer than ever, not 
separate you, as if they were all yours, and John had nothing to do but 
support them. I've seen it for some weeks, but have not spoken, feeling sure 
it would come right in time.
I'm afraid it won't. If I ask him to stay, he'll think I'm jealous, and I 
wouldn't insult him by such an idea. He doesn't see that I want him, and I 
don't know how to tell him without words.
Make it so pleasant he won't want to go away. My dear,  he's longing for his 
little home, but it isn't home without you,  and you are always in the 
nursery.
Oughtn't I to be there?
Not all the time, too much confinement makes you nervous,  and then you 
are unfitted for everything. Besides, you owe something to John as well as to 
the babies. Don't neglect husband for children, don't shut him out of the 
nursery, but teach him how to help in it. His place is there as well as yours, 
and the children need him. Let him feel that he has a part to do, and he will 
do it gladly and faithfully, and it will be better for you all.
You really think so, Mother?
I know it, Meg, for I've tried it, and I seldom give advice unless I've proved 
its practicability. When you and Jo were little,  I went on just as you are, 
feeling as if I didn't do my duty unless I devoted myself wholly to you. Poor 
Father took to his books,  after I had refused all offers of help, and left me to 
try my experiment alone. I struggled along as well as I could, but Jo was too 
much for me. I nearly spoiled her by indulgence. You were poorly, and I 
worried about you till I fell sick myself. Then Father came to the rescue, 
quietly managed everything, and made himself so helpful that I saw my 
mistake, and never have been able to got on without him since. That is the 
secret of our home happiness.  He does not let business wean him from the 
little cares and duties that affect us all, and I try not to let domestic worries 
destroy my interest in his pursuits. Each do our part alone in many things, 
but at home we work together, always.
It is so, Mother, and my great wish is to be to my husband and children 
what you have been to yours. Show me how, I'll do anything you say.
You were always my docile daughter. Well, dear, if I were you, I'd let John 
have more to do with the management of Demi,  for the boy needs training, 
and it's none too soon to begin. Then I'd do what I have often proposed, let 
Hannah come and help you. She is a capital nurse, and you may trust the 
precious babies to her while you do more housework. You need the exercise,  
Hannah would enjoy the rest, and John would find his wife again. Go out 
more, keep cheerful as well as busy, for you are the sunshine-maker of the 
family, and if you get dismal there is no fair weather. Then I'd try to take an 
interest in whatever John likes--talk with him, let him read to you, exchange 
ideas, and help each other in that way. Don't shut yourself up in a bandbox 
because you are a woman, but understand what is going on, and educate 
yourself to take your part in the world's work, for it all affects you and 
yours.
John is so sensible, I'm afraid he will think I'm stupid if I ask questions 
about politics and things.
I don't believe he would. Love covers a multitude of sins,  and of whom 
could you ask more freely than of him? Try it, and see if he doesn't find your 
society far more agreeable than Mrs. Scott's suppers.
I will. Poor John! I'm afraid I have neglected him sadly,  but I thought I was 
right, and he never said anything.
He tried not to be selfish, but he has felt rather forlorn,  I fancy. This is just 
the time, Meg, when young married people are apt to grow apart, and the 
very time when they ought to be most together, for the first tenderness soon 
wears off, unless care is taken to preserve it. And no time is so beautiful and 
precious to parents as the first years of the little lives given to them to train. 
Don't let John be a stranger to the babies, for they will do more to keep him 
safe and happy in this world of trial and temptation than anything else, and 
through them you will learn to know and love one another as you should. 
Now, dear, good-by. Think over Mother's preachment, act upon it if it seems 
good, and God bless you all.
s 
firmness of character, we won
s horses and all the king
 with `Parpar
No,  no,
s love 
pats. A few days after the talk with her mother, Meg resolved to try a social 
evening with John, so she ordered a nice supper, set the parlor in order, 
dressed herself prettily, and put the children to bed early, that nothing 
should interfere with her experiment. But unfortunately Demi
t shut, and long after Daisy had gone to byelow, like the chubby 
little bunch of good nature she was, naughty Demi lay staring at the light,  
with the most discouragingly wide-awake expression of countenance. 
"Will Demi lie still like a good boy, while Mamma runs down and gives poor 
Papa his tea?" asked Meg, as the hall door softly closed, and the well-known 
step went tip-toeing into the dining room. 
"Me has tea!" said Demi, preparing to join in the revel. 
"No, but I
ll go bye-by like 
Daisy. Will you, lovey?" 
"Iss!" and Demi shut his eyes tight, as if to catch sleep and hurry the desired 
day. 
Taking advantage of the propitious moment, Meg slipped away and ran 
down to greet her husband with a smiling face and the little blue bow in her 
hair which was his especial admiration. He saw it at once and said with 
pleased surprise,  "Why, little mother, how gay we are tonight. Do you 
expect company?" 
"Only you, dear." 
"No, I
t I when 
I have the time?
I do it out of respect for you, my dear,
Ditto, ditto, Mr. Brooke,
Well, it's altogether delightful, and like old times. This tastes right. I drink 
your health, dear.
Opy doy. Me's tummin!
It's that naughty boy. I told him to go to sleep alone,  and here he is, 
downstairs, getting his death a-cold pattering over that canvas,
Mornin' now,
 with loving glances. 
"No, it isn
 

 said the artful one, preparing to climb the paternal knee 
and revel in forbidden joys. But John shook his head, and said to Meg... 

 

 And Meg led her son away,  feeling a strong 
desire to spank the little marplot who hopped beside her, laboring under the 
delusion that the bribe was to be administered as soon as they reached the 
nursery. 
Nor was he disappointed, for that shortsighted woman actually gave him a 
lump of sugar, tucked him into his bed,  and forbade any more promenades 
till morning. 

 said Demi the perjured, blissfully sucking his sugar,  and regarding 
his first attempt as eminently successful. 
Meg returned to her place, and supper was progressing pleasantly, when the 
little ghost walked again and exposed the maternal delinquencies by boldly 
demanding, 
 

t do," said John, hardening his heart against the engaging 
little sinner. "We shall never know any peace till that child learns togo to bed 
367
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 properly. You have made a slave of yourself long enough. Give him one 
lesson, and then there will be an end of it. Put him in his bed and leave him, 
Meg." 
"He won
 

ll manage him. Demi, go upstairs, and get into your bed,  as Mamma bids 
you." 
"S
 replied the young rebel, helping himself to the coveted `cakie', and 
beginning to eat the same with calm audacity. 

t go yourself." 
"Go 
t love Parpar." And Demi retired to his mother
Be gentle with him, John,
s strength gave out, when he devoted himself to roaring at the 
top of his voice. This vocal exercise usually conquered Meg, but John sat as 
unmoved as the post which is popularly believed to be deaf. No coaxing, no 
sugar, no lullaby, no story, even the light was put out and only the red glow 
of the fire enlivened the `big dark
,  as his angry passions subsided, and recollections of his 
tender bondwoman returned to the captive autocrat. The plaintive wail 
which succeeded the passionate roar went to Meg
Let me stay with him, he'll be good now, John.
No, my dear. I've told him he must go to sleep, as you bid him, and he 
must, if I stay here all night.
But he'll cry himself sick,
No, he won't, he's so tired he will soon drop off and then the matter is 
settled, for he will understand that he has got to mind. Don't interfere, I'll 
manage him.
He's my child, and I can't have his spirit broken by harshness.
He's my child, and I won't have his temper spoiled by indulgence. Go down, 
my dear, and leave the boy to me.
Please let me kiss him once, John?
Certainly. Demi, say good night to Mamma, and let her go and rest, for she 
is very tired with taking care of you all day.
Poor little man, he's worn out with sleep and crying. I'll cover him up, and 
then go and set Meg's heart at rest.
t, for the moment his father peeped at him,  Demi
Me's dood, now.
s arm and holding his father
s work. 
As Meg stood watching the two faces on the pillow, she smiled to herself, 
and then slipped away again, saying in a satisfied tone, "I never need fear 
that John will be too harsh with my babies. He does know how to manage 
them, and will be a great help, for Demi is getting too much for me." 
369
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 When John came down at last, expecting to find a pensive or reproachful 
wife, he was agreeably surprised to find Meg placidly trimming a bonnet, 
and to be greeted with the request to read something about the election, if 
he was not too tired. John saw in a minute that a revolution of some kind 
was going on, but wisely asked no questions, knowing that Meg was such a 
transparent little person, she couldn
Well, I really don't see what we are coming to.
She is trying to like politics for my sake, so I'll try and like millinery for 
hers, that's only fair,
That's very 
pretty. Is it what you call a breakfast cap?
My dear man, it's a bonnet! My very best go-to-concert-and-theater bonnet.
I beg your pardon, it was so small, I naturally mistook it for one of the 
flyaway things you sometimes wear. How do you keep it on?
These bits of lace are fastened under the chin with a rosebud, so.
It's a love of a bonnet, but I prefer the face inside, for it looks young and 
happy again.
I'm glad you like it, for I want you to take me to one of the new concerts 
some night. I really need some music to put me in tune. Will you, please?
Of course I will, with all my heart, or anywhere else you like. You have been 
shut up so long, it will do you no end of good, and I shall enjoy it, of all 
things. What put it into your head, little mother?
Well, I had a talk with Marmee the other day, and told her how nervous and 
cross and out of sorts I felt, and she said I needed change and less care, so 
Hannah is to help me with the children, and I'm to see to things about the 
house more,  and now and then have a little fun, just to keep me from 
getting to be a fidgety, broken-down old woman before my time. It's only an 
experiment, John, and I want to try it for your sake as much as for mine, 
because I've neglected you shamefully lately, and I'm going to make home 
what it used to be, if I can. You don't object, I hope?
 now, and everyone found the little house a 
cheerful place, full of happiness,  content, and family love. Even Sallie 
Moffatt liked to go there. "It is always so quiet and pleasant here, it does me 
good, Meg," she used to say, looking about her with wistful eyes, as if trying 
to discover the charm, that she might use it in her great house, full of 
splendid lonliness, for there were no riotous, sunny-faced babies there, and 
Ned lived in a world of lis own, where there was no place for her. 
This household happiness did not come all at once, but John and Meg had 
found the key to it, and each year of Married life taught them how to use it, 
unlocking the treasuries of real home love and mutual helpfulness, which 
the poorest may possess, and the richest cannot buy. This is the sort of 
shelf on which young wives and mothers may consent to be laid, safe from 
the restless fret and fever of the world,  finding loyal lovers in the little sons 
and daughters who cling to them, undaunted by sorrow, poverty, or age, 
walking side by side, through fair and stormy weather, with a faithful friend, 
who is, in the true sense of the good old Saxon word,  the `house-band
s happiest kingdom is home, her 
highest honor the art of ruling it not as a queen, but as a wise wife and 
mother. 
371
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER THIRTY-NINE 
 He went to Nice intending to stay a week, and remained a month. He was 
tired of wandering about alone, and Amy
 he used to receive, and enjoyed a taste of it again,  for 
no attentions, however flattering, from strangers, were half so pleasant as 
the sisterly adoration of the girls at home. Amy never would pet him like the 
others, but she was very glad to see him now, and quite clung to him, feeling 
that he was the representative of the dear family for whom she longed more 
than she would confess. They naturally took comfort in each other
All the rest have gone to Monaco for the day. I preferred to stay at home 
and write letters. They are done now,  and I am going to Valrosa to sketch, 
will you come?' said Amy,  as she joined Laurie one lovely day when he 
lounged in as usual about noon. 

t it rather warm for such a long walk?" he answered 
slowly, for the shaded salon looked inviting after the glare without. 
"I
ll have 
nothing to do but hold your umbrella,  and keep your gloves nice," returned 
Amy, with a sarcastic glance at the immaculate kids, which were a weak 
point with Laurie. 
372
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Then I
 And he put out his hand for her sketchbook. 
But she tucked it under her arm with a sharp... 

t trouble yourself. It
t look equal to it." 
Laurie lifted his eyebrows and followed at a leisurely pace as she ran 
downstairs, but when they got into the carriage he took the reins himself, 
and left little Baptiste nothing to do but fold his arms and fall asleep on his 
perch. 
The two never quarreled. Amy was too well-bred, and just now Laurie was 
too lazy, so in a minute he peeped under her hatbrim with an inquiring air. 
She answered him with a smile, and they went on together in the most 
amicable manner. 
It was a lovely drive, along winding roads rich in the picturesque scenes that 
delight beauty-loving eyes. Here an ancient monastery, whence the solemn 
chanting of the monks came down to them. There a bare-legged shepherd, in 
wooden shoes, pointed hat,  and rough jacket over one shoulder, sat piping 
on a stone while his goats skipped among the rocks or lay at his feet. Meek,  
mouse-colored donkeys, laden with panniers of freshly cut grass passed by, 
with a pretty girl in a capaline sitting between the green piles, or an old 
woman spinning with a distaff as she went. Brown, soft-eyed children ran 
out from the quaint stone hovels to offer nosegays, or bunches of oranges 
still on the bough. Gnarled olive trees covered the hills with their dusky 
foliage,  fruit hung golden in the orchard, and great scarlet anemones 
fringed the roadside, while beyond green slopes and craggy heights,  the 
Maritime Alps rose sharp and white against the blue Italian sky. 
Valrosa well deserved its name, for in that climate of perpetual summer 
roses blossomed everywhere. They overhung the archway, thrust themselves 
between the bars of the great gate with a sweet welcome to passers-by, and 
lined the avenue, winding through lemon trees and feathery palms up to the 
villa on the hill. Every shadowy nook, where seats invited one to stop and 
rest, was a mass of bloom, every cool grotto had its marble nymph smiling 
from a veil of flowers and every fountain reflected crimson, white,  or pale 
pink roses, leaning down to smile at their own beauty. Roses covered the 
walls of the house, draped the cornices, climbed the pillars, and ran riot 
over the balustrade of the wide terrace,  whence one looked down on the 
sunny Mediterranean, and the white-walled city on its shore. 
373
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "This is a regular honeymoon paradise, isn
 asked Amy, pausing on the terrace to enjoy the view, and a 
luxurious whiff of perfume that came wandering by. 

 returned Laurie, with his thumb in his mouth, 
after a vain attempt to capture a solitary scarlet flower that grew just beyond 
his reach. 

 said Amy, gathering 
three of the tiny cream-colored ones that starred the wall behind her. She 
put them in his buttonhole as a peace offering, and he stood a minute 
looking down at them with a curious expression, for in the Italian part of his 
nature there was a touch of superstition, and he was just then in that state 
of half-sweet, half-bitter melancholy, when imaginative young men find 
significance in trifles and food for romance everywhere. He had thought of 
Jo in reaching after the thorny red rose, for vivid flowers became her, and 
she had often worn ones like that from the greenhouse at home. The pale 
roses Amy gave him were the sort that the Italians lay in dead hands, never 
in bridal wreaths, and for a moment he wondered if the omen was for Jo or 
for himself, but the next instant his American common sense got the better 
of sentimentality, and he laughed a heartier laugh than Amy had heard 
since he came. 

s good advice, you
 she said, 
thinking her speech amused him. 

 he answered in jest, and a few months later he did it in 
earnest. 

 she asked presently, as 
she settled herself on a rustic seat. 

 

 

 

 

 

t you do it?" 
"Natural depravity, I suppose." 
374
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Natural indolence, you mean. It
 And Amy looked severe. 

  And Laurie composed himself for a 
lounge on the broad ledge of the balustrade. 
Amy shook her head and opened her sketchbook with an air of resignation, 
but she had made up her mind to lecture `that boy' and in a minute she 
began again. 

 

 

 

ll allow me." 
"How provoking you are! I don
 

." 
"Stay as you are, and go to sleep if you like. I intend to work hard," said Amy 
in her most energetic tone. 
"What delightful enthusiasm!" And he leaned against a tall urn with an ir of 
entire satisfaction. 
"What would Jo say if she saw you now?" asked Amy impatiently, hoping to 
stir him up by the mention of her still more energetic sister
As usual, `Go away, Teddy. I'm busy!'
s face--a hard 
bitter look, full of pain, dissatisfaction, and regret. It was gone before she 
could study it and the listless expression back again. She watched him for a 
moment with artistic pleasure, thinking how like an Italian he looked, as he 
lay basking in the sun with uncovered head and eyes full of southern 
dreaminess, for he seemed to have forgotten her and fallen into a reverie. 
375
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "You look like the effigy of a young knight asleep on his tomb," she said, 
carefully tracing the well-cut profile defined against the dark stone. 
"Wish I was!" 
"That
 There Amy stopped,  with a half-timid, half-wistful 
look, more significant than her unfinished speech. 
Laurie saw and understood the affectionate anxiety which she hesitated to 
express, and looking straight into her eyes,  said, just as he used to say it to 
her mother, 
s all right, ma
 
That satisfied her and set at rest the doubts that had begun to worry her 
lately. It also touched her, and she showed that it did, by the cordial tone in 
which she said... 

m glad of that! I didn
d been a very bad boy, but I fancied you 
might have wasted money at that wicked Baden-Baden, lost your heart to 
some charming Frenchwoman with a husband, or got into some of the 
scrapes that young men seem to consider a necessary part of a foreign tour. 
Don
, as Jo used to say when we got in the sofa corner and told 
secrets." 
Laurie obediently threw himself down on the turf, and began to amuse 
himself by sticking daisies into the ribbons of Amy
I'm all ready for the secrets.
I've none to tell. You may begin.
Haven't one to bless myself with. I thought perhaps you'd had some news 
from home..
You have heard all that has come lately. Don't you hear often? I fancied Jo 
would send you volumes.
She's very busy. I'm roving about so, it's impossible to be regular, you 
know. When do you begin your great work of art,  Raphaella?' he asked. 
changing the subject abruptly after another pause, in which he had been 
wondering if Amy knew his secret and wanted to talk about it. 
376
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
 she answered, with a despondent but decided air. 
 

 

s just why, because talent isn
t be a common-place 
dauber, so I don
 

 

 
It was a characteristic speech, and sounded daring, but audacity becomes 
young people, and Amy's ambition had a good foundation. Laurie smiled, 
but he liked the spirit with which she took up a new purpose when a long
cherished one died, and spent no time lamenting. 

 
Amy preserved a discreet silence, but there was a conscious look in her 
downcast face that made Laurie sit up and say gravely, 
m going to 
play brother, and ask questions. May I?" 
"I don
 

t. You aren
s my private opinion that if he had not been called home so 
suddenly and detained so long, something would have come of it, hey?" 
"That
 was Amy's grim reply, but her lips would smile, 
and there was a traitorous sparkle of the eye which betrayed that she knew 
her power and enjoyed the knowledge. 

 And Laurie looked very elder-brotherly and 
grave all of a sudden. 

 

t you?" 
"Very likely." 
377
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Then you are fond of old Fred?" 
"I could be, if I tried." 
"But you don
s a good fellow, Amy, but not the man I fancied 
you
 

 began Amy, trying to 
be quite cool and dignified, but feeling a little ashamed of herself, in spite of 
the sincerity of her intentions. 

t get on without money,  so you mean 
to make a good match, and start in that way? Quite right and proper, as the 
world goes, but it sounds odd from the lips of one of your mother
 

 
A short speech, but the quiet decision with which it was uttered contrasted 
curiously with the young speaker. Laurie felt this instinctively and laid 
himself down again, with a sense of disappointment which he could not 
explain. His look and silence, as well as a certain inward self-disapproval,  
ruffled Amy, and made her resolve to deliver her lecture without delay. 

d do me the favor to rouse yourself a little," she said sharply. 
"Do it for me, there
 

 And she looked as if she would like doing it in the most 
summary style. 

 returned Laurie, who enjoyed having someone 
to tease, after his long abstinence from his favorite pastime. 

d be angry in five minutes." 
"I
 

t know what I can do. Snow produces a glow and a tingle, if 
applied rightly. Your indifference is half affectation, and a good stirring up 
would prove it." 
"Stir away, it won
 
378
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 Being decidedly nettled herself, and longing to see him shake off the apathy 
that so altered him, Amy sharpened both tongue and pencil, and began. 

s Lazy Laurence.  How do you like 
it?" 
She thought it would annoy him, but he only folded his arms under his 
head, with an imperturbable, "That
 

 

 

 If she had even said `I hate you' in a petulant or 
coquettish tone, he would have laughed and rather liked it, but the grave, 
almost sad, accent in her voice made him open his eyes, and ask quickly... 

 

 

 

ll go on." 
"Pray do, it
 

d find it so. Selfish people always like to talk about 
themselves." 
"Am I selfish?" The question slipped out involuntarily and in a tone of 
surprise, for the one virtue on which he prided himself was generosity. 
"Yes, very selfish," continued Amy, in a calm, cool voice,  twice as effective 
just then as an angry one. "I
ve studied you while we 
were frolicking, and I
 

t a fellow to have any pleasure after a four-year grind?" 
"You don
d had much. At any rate, you are none the better 
for it, as far as I can see. I said when we first met that you had improved. 
Now I take it all back, for I don
s the truth, 
so I can
 There she stopped, with a look that had both pain and 
pity in it. 

 added Laurie, blandly finishing the sentence. 
But the lecture began to take effect,  for there was a wide-awake sparkle in 
his eyes now and a half-angry, half-injured expression replaced the former 
indifference. 

d take it so. You men tell us we are angels, and say we can 
make you what we will, but the instant we honestly try to do you good, you 
laugh at us and won
 
Amy spoke bitterly, and turned her back on the exasperating martyr at her 
feet. 
In a minute a hand came down over the page, so that she could not draw, 
and Laurie's voice said, with a droll imitation of a penitent child, 
 
But Amy did not laugh, for she was in earnest, and tapping on the 
outspread hand with her pencil, said soberly, 
t you ashamed of a hand 
like that? It
s, and looks as if it never did 
anything but wear Jouvin
m glad to see there are no diamonds or big 
seal rings on it, only the little old one Jo gave you so long ago. Dear soul, I 
wish she was here to help me!" 
"So do I!" 
The hand vanished as suddenly as it came, and there was energy enough in 
the echo of her wish to suit even Amy. She glanced down at him with a new 
thought in her mind, but he was lying with his hat half over his face, as if 
for shade, and his mustache hid his mouth. She only saw his chest rise and 
fall, with a long breath that might have been a sigh, and the hand that wore 
the ring nestled down into the grass, as if to hide something too precious or 
too tender to be spoken of. All in a minute various hints and trifles assumed 
shape and significance in Amy
I know I have no right to talk so to you, Laurie, and if you weren't the 
sweetest-tempered fellow in the world, you'd be very angry with me. But we 
are all so fond and proud of you,  I couldn't bear to think they should be 
disappointed in you at home as I have been, though, perhaps they would 
understand the change better than I do.
I think they would,
They ought to have told me, and not let me go blundering and scolding, 
when I should have been more kind and patient than ever. I never did like 
that Miss Randal and now I hate her!
Hang Miss Randal!
I beg pardon, I thought...
No, you didn't, you knew perfectly well I never cared for anyone but Jo,
I did think so, but as they never said anything about it,  and you came 
away, I supposed I was mistaken. And Jo wouldn't be kind to you? Why, I 
was sure she loved you dearly.
She was kind, but not in the right way, and it's lucky for her she didn't love 
me, if I'm the good-for-nothing fellow you think me. It's her fault though, 
and you may tell her so.
I was wrong, I didn't know. I'm very sorry I was so cross,  but I can't help 
wishing you'd bear it better, Teddy, dear.
Don't, that's her name for me!
s half-kind, half-reproachful tone. 
381
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Wait till you
 he added in a low voice, as he pulled up 
the grass by the handful. 

d take it manfully, and be respected if i couldn
 said Amy, with 
the decision of one who knew nothing about it. 
Now, Laurie flattered himself that he had borne it remarkably well, making 
no moan, asking no sympathy, and taking his trouble away to live it down 
alone. Amy's lecture put the Matter in a new light, and for the first time it 
did look weak and selfish to lose heart at the first failure, and shut himself 
up in moody indifference. He felt as if suddenly shaken out of a pensive 
dream and found it impossible to go to sleep again. Presently he sat up and 
asked slowly, 
 

t you do 
something splendid, and make her love you?" 
"I did my best, but it was no use." 
"Graduating well, you mean? That was no more than you ought to have 
done, for your grandfather
 

t love me," 
began Laurie, leaning his head on his hand in a despondent attitude. 
"No, you didn
ll say so in the end, for it did you good, and proved 
that you could do something if you tried. If you
d soon be your hearty, happy self again, and forget 
your trouble." 
"That
 

t shrug your shoulders, and think, `Much she 
knows about such things
t pretend to be wise, but I am observing, 
and I see a great deal more than you
m interested in other 
people
t explain, I 
remember and use them for my own benefit. Love Jo all your days, if you 
choose, but don
s wicked to throw away so many good 
gifts because you can
t lecture any 
more, for I know you
 
382
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 Neither spoke for several minutes. Laurie sat turning the little ring on his 
finger, and Amy put the last touches to the hasty sketch she had been 
working at while she talked. Presently she put it on his knee, merely saying, 

 
He looked and then he smiled, as he could not well help doing, for it was 
capitally done, the long, lazy figure on the grass, with listless face, half-shut 
eyes, and one hand holding a cigar, from which came the little wreath of 
smoke that encircled the dreamer's head. 

 he said, with a genuine surprise and pleasure at her 
skill, adding, with a half-laugh, 
s me." 
"As you are. This is as you were." And Amy laid another sketch beside the 
one he held. 
It was not nearly so well done, but there was a life and spirit in it which 
atoned for many faults, and it recalled the past so vividly that a sudden 
change swept over the young man
s breezy hair and erect attitude, there was a 
suggestion of suddenly arrested motion, of strength, courage,  and youthful 
buoyancy that contrasted sharply with the supine grace of the `DOLCE FAR 
NIENTE
Don't you remember the day you played Rarey with Puck,  and we all 
looked on? Meg and Beth were frightened, but Jo clapped and pranced, and 
I sat on the fence and drew you. I found that sketch in my portfolio the other 
day, touched it up, and kept it to show you.
Much obliged. You've improved immensely since then,  and I congratulate 
you. May I venture to suggest in ` a honeymoon paradise' that five o'clock is 
the dinner hour at your hotel?
Now, I've offended him. Well, if it does him good, I'm glad, if it makes him 
hate me, I'm sorry, but it's true, and I can't take back a word of it.
Shall we see you this evening, mon frere?
s door. 
"Unfortunately I have an engagement. Au revoir, madamoiselle."  And Laurie 
bent as if to kiss her hand, in the foreign fashion, which became him better 
than many men. Something in his face made Amy say quickly and warmly... 
"No, be yourself with me, Laurie, and part in the good old way. I
 

 And with these words, uttered in the tone she liked, Laurie 
left her, after a handshake almost painful in its heartiness. 
Next morning, instead of the usual call, Amy received a note which made her 
smile at the beginning and sigh at the end. 
My Dear Mentor,  Please make my adieux to your aunt, and exult within 
yourself, for `Lazy Laurence' has gone to his grandpa, like the best of boys. A 
pleasant winter to you, and may the gods grant you a blissful honeymoon at 
Valrosa! I think Fred would be benefited by a rouser. Tell him so, with my 
congratulations. 
Yours gratefully, Telemachus 
 
m glad he
 said Amy, with an approving smile. The next 
minute her face fell as she glanced about the empty room, adding, with an 
involuntary sigh, 
 
384
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER FORTY 
When the first bitterness was over, the family accepted the inevitable, and 
tried to bear it cheerfully, helping one another by the increased affection 
which comes to bind households tenderly together in times of trouble. They 
put away their grief, and each did his or her part toward making that last 
year a happy one. 
The pleasantest room in the house was set apart for Beth,  and in it was 
gathered everything that she most loved, flowers,  pictures, her piano, the 
little worktable, and the beloved pussies. Father's best books found their 
way there, Mother's easy chair, Jo's desk, Amy's finest sketches, and every 
day Meg brought her babies on a loving pilgrimage, to make sunshine for 
Aunty Beth. John quietly set apart a little sum, that he might enjoy the 
pleasure of keeping the invalid supplied with the fruit she loved and longed 
for. Old Hannah never wearied of concocting dainty dishes to tempt a 
capricious appetite,  dropping tears as she worked, and from across the sea 
came little gifts and cheerful letters, seeming to bring breaths of warmth and 
fragrance from lands that know no winter. 
Here, cherished like a household saint in its shrine, sat Beth, tranquil and 
busy as ever, for nothing could change the sweet, unselfish nature, and even 
while preparing to leave life, she tried to make it happier for those who 
should remain behind. The feeble fingers were never idle, and one of her 
pleasures was to make little things for the school children daily passing to 
and fro, to drop a pair of mittens from her window for a pair of purple 
hands, a needlebook for some small mother of many dolls, penwipers for 
young penmen toiling through forests of pothooks, scrapbooks for picture
loving eyes, and all manner of pleasant devices, till the reluctant climbers of 
the ladder of learning found their way strewn with flowers, as it were, and 
came to regard the gentle giver as a sort of fairy godmother, who sat above 
there, and showered down gifts miraculously suited to their tastes and 
needs. If Beth had wanted any reward, she found it in the bright little faces 
always turned up to her window, with nods and smiles, and the droll little 
letters which came to her, full of blots and gratitude. 
The first few months were very happy ones, and Beth often used to look 
round, and say 
 as they all sat together in her sunny 
room, the babies kicking and crowing on the floor, mother and sisters 
working near, and father reading, in his pleasant voice, from the wise old 
books which seemed rich in good and comfortable words, as applicable now 
385
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 as when written centuries ago, a little chapel, where a paternal priest taught 
his flock the hard lessons all must learn, trying to show them that hope can 
comfort love, and faith make resignation possible. Simple sermons, that 
went straight to the souls of those who listened, for the father's heart was in 
the minister's religion, and the frequent falter in the voice gave a double 
eloquence to the words he spoke or read. 
It was well for all that this peaceful time was given them as preparation for 
the sad hours to come, for by-and-by, Beth said the needle was `so heavy', 
and put it down forever. Talking wearied her, faces troubled her, pain 
claimed her for its own,  and her tranquil spirit was sorrowfully perturbed 
by the ills that vexed her feeble flesh. Ah me! Such heavy days, such long,  
long nights, such aching hearts and imploring prayers, when those who 
loved her best were forced to see the thin hands stretched out to them 
beseechingly, to hear the bitter cry, 
 and to feel that 
there was no help. A sad eclipse of the serene soul, a sharp struggle of the 
young life with death, but both were mercifully brief, and then the natural 
rebellion over, the old peace returned more beautiful than ever. With the 
wreck of her frail body,  Beth's soul grew strong, and though she said little, 
those about her felt that she was ready, saw that the first pilgrim called was 
likewise the fittest, and waited with her on the shore, trying to see the 
Shining Ones coming to receive her when she crossed the river. 
Jo never left her for an hour since Beth had said 
 She slept on a couch in the room,  waking often to renew the fire, 
to feed, lift, or wait upon the patient creature who seldom asked for 
anything, and `tried not to be a trouble'. All day she haunted the room, 
jealous of any other nurse, and prouder of being chosen then than of any 
honor her life ever brought her. Precious and helpful hours to Jo, for now 
her heart received the teaching that it needed. Lessons in patience were so 
sweetly taught her that she could not fail to learn them,  charity for all, the 
lovely spirit that can forgive and truly forget unkindness, the loyalty to duty 
that makes the hardest easy, and the sincere faith that fears nothing, but 
trusts undoubtingly. 
Often when she woke Jo found Beth reading in her well-worn little book, 
heard her singing softly, to beguile the sleepless night, or saw her lean her 
face upon her hands, while slow tears dropped through the transparent 
fingers, and Jo would lie watching her with thoughts too deep for tears, 
feeling that Beth, in her simple, unselfish way, was trying to wean herself 
from the dear old life, and fit herself for the life to come, by sacred words of 
comfort, quiet prayers, and the music she loved so well. 
386
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 Seeing this did more for Jo than the wisest sermons, the saintliest hymns, 
the most fervent prayers that any voice could utter. For with eyes made 
clear by many tears, and a heart softened by the tenderest sorrow, she 
recognized the beauty of her sister's life--uneventful, unambitious, yet full of 
the genuine virtues which `smell sweet, and blossom in the dust',  the self
forgetfulness that makes the humblest on earth remembered soonest in 
heaven, the true success which is possible to all. 
One night when Beth looked among the books upon her table,  to find 
something to make her forget the mortal weariness that was almost as hard 
to bear as pain, as she turned the leaves of her old favorite, Pilgrims's 
Progress, she found a little paper,  scribbled over in Jo's hand. The name 
caught her eye and the blurred look of the lines made her sure that tears 
had fallen on it. 

s fast asleep, so I won
t think she
, thought Beth, 
with a glance at her sister, who lay on the rug, with the tongs beside her, 
ready to wake up the minute the log fell apart. 
MY BETH 
Sitting patient in the shadow Till the blessed light shall come,  A serene and 
saintly presence Sanctifies our troubled home. Earthly joys and hopes and 
sorrows Break like ripples on the strand Of the deep and solemn river Where 
her willing feet now stand. 
O my sister, passing from me,  Out of human care and strife,  Leave me, as 
a gift, those virtues Which have beautified your life. Dear, bequeath me that 
great patience Which has power to sustain A cheerful, uncomplaining spirit 
In its prison-house of pain. 
Give me, for I need it sorely,  Of that courage, wise and sweet,  Which has 
made the path of duty Green beneath your willing feet. Give me that 
unselfish nature,  That with charity devine Can pardon wrong for love's dear 
sake-- Meek heart, forgive me mine! 
Thus our parting daily loseth Something of its bitter pain,  And while 
learning this hard lesson,  My great loss becomes my gain. For the touch of 
grief will render My wild nature more serene,  Give to life new aspirations,  A 
new trust in the unseen. 
Henceforth, safe across the river,  I shall see forever more A beloved, 
household spirit Waiting for me on the shore. Hope and faith, born of my 
387
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 sorrow,  Guardian angels shall become,  And the sister gone before me By 
their hands shall lead me home. 
Blurred and blotted, faulty and feeble as the lines were, they brought a look 
of inexpressible comfort to Beth's face, for her one regret had been that she 
had done so little, and this seemed to assure her that her life had not been 
useless, that her death would not bring the despair she feared. As she sat 
with the paper folded between her hands, the charred log fell asunder. Jo 
started up, revived the blaze,  and crept to the bedside, hoping Beth slept. 

t care. Have I been all that to you, Jo?" she asked, with wistful, 
humble earnestness. 
"OH, Beth, so much, so much!" And Jo
s. 
"Then I don
d wasted my life. I
s too late to begin even to do 
better, it
d helped them." 
"More than any one in the world, Beth. I used to think I couldn
m learning to feel that I don
ll be more to me than 
ever, and death can
 

t fear it any longer, for I
m gone. They will turn to 
you, don
s hard to work alone, remember that I don
ll be happier in doing that than writing splendid 
books or seeing all the world, for love is the only thing that we can carry 
with us when we go, and it makes the go easy." 
"I
 And then and there Jo renounced her old ambition, pledged 
herself to a new and better one, acknowledging the poverty of other desires, 
and feeling the blessed solace of a belief in the immortality of love. 
So the spring days came and went , the sky grew clearer, the earth greener, 
the flowers were up fairly early, and the birds came back in time to say 
goodbye to Beth, who, like a tired but trustful child, clung to the hands that 
had led her all her life,  as Father and Mother guided her tenderly through 
the Valley of the Shadow, and gave her up to God. 
388
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 Seldom except in books do the dying utter memorable words,  see visions, or 
depart with beatified countenances, and those who have sped many parting 
souls know that to most the end comes as naturally and simply as sleep. As 
Beth had hoped, the `tide went out easily', and in the dark hour before 
dawn, on the bosom where she had drawn her first breath, she quietly drew 
her last, with no farewell but one loving look, one little sigh. 
With tears and prayers and tender hands, Mother and sisters made her 
ready for the long sleep that pain would never mar again,  seeing with 
grateful eyes the beautiful serenity that soon replaced the pathetic patience 
that had wrung their hearts so long, and feeling with reverent joy that to 
their darling death was a benignant angel, not a phantom full of dread. 
When morning came, for the first time in many months the fire was out, Jo's 
place was empty, and the room was very still. But a bird sang blithely on a 
budding bough, close by, the snowdrops blossomed freshly at the window, 
and the spring sunshine streamed in like a benediction over the placid face 
upon the pillow, a face so full of painless peace that those who loved it best 
smiled through their tears, and thanked God that Beth was well at last. 
389
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER FORTY-ONE 
Amy's lecture did Laurie good, though, of course, he did not own it till long 
afterward. Men seldom do, for when women are the advisers, the lords of 
creation don't take the advice till they have persuaded themselves that it is 
just what they intended to do. Then they act upon it, and, if it succeeds,  
they give the weaker vessel half the credit of it. If it fails, they generously 
give her the whole. Laurie went back to his grandfather, and was so dutifully 
devoted for several weeks that the old gentleman declared the climate of Nice 
had improved him wonderfully, and he had better try it again. There was 
nothing the young gentleman would have liked better,  but elephants could 
not have dragged him back after the scolding he had received. Pride forbid, 
and whenever the longing grew very strong, he fortified his resolution by 
repeating the words that had made the deepest impression, 
 

 
Laurie turned the matter over in his mind so often that he soon brought 
himself to confess that he had been selfish and lazy, but then when a man 
has a great sorrow, he should be indulged in all sorts of vagaries till he has 
lived it down. He felt that his blighted affections were quite dead now, and 
though he should never cease to be a faithful mourner, there was no 
occasion to wear his weeds ostentatiously. Jo wouldn't love him, but he 
might make her respect and admire him by doing something which should 
prove that a girl's no had not spoiled his life. He had always meant to do 
something, and Amy's advice was quite unnecessary. He had only been 
waiting till the aforesaid blighted affections were decently interred. That 
being done, he felt that he was ready to `hide his stricken heart, and still toil 
on'. 
As Goethe, when he had a joy or a grief, put it into a song,  so Laurie 
resolved to embalm his love sorrow in music, and to compose a Requiem 
which should harrow up Jo's soul and melt the heart of every hearer. 
Therefore the next time the old gentleman found him getting restless and 
moody and ordered him off,  he went to Vienna, where he had musical 
friends, and fell to work with the firm determination to distinguish himself. 
But whether the sorrow was too vast to be embodied in music, or music too 
ethereal to uplift a mortal woe, he soon discovered that the Requiem was 
beyond him just at present. It was evident that his mind was not in working 
order yet, and his ideas needed clarifying, for often in the middle of a 
plaintive strain,  he would find himself humming a dancing tune that vividly 
390
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 recalled the Christmas ball at Nice, especially the stout Frenchman, and put 
an effectual stop to tragic composition for the time being. 
Then he tried an opera, for nothing seemed impossible in the beginning, but 
here again unforeseen difficulties beset him. He wanted Jo for his heroine, 
and called upon his memory to supply him with tender recollections and 
romantic visions of his love. But memory turned traitor, and as if possessed 
by the perverse spirit of the girl, would only recall Jo's oddities, faults, and 
freaks, would only show her in the most unsentimental aspects--beating 
mats with her head tied up in a bandana, barricading herself with the sofa 
pillow, or throwing cold water over his passion a la Gummidge--and an 
irresistable laugh spoiled the pensive picture he was endeavoring to paint. 
Jo wouldn't be put into the opera at any price, and he had to give her up 
with a 
 and a clutch at his hair, as 
became a distracted composer. 
When he looked about him for another and a less intractable damsel to 
immortalize in melody, memory produced one with the most obliging 
readiness. This phantom wore many faces, but it always had golden hair, 
was enveloped in a diaphanous cloud, and floated airily before his mind's 
eye in a pleasing chaos of roses,  peacocks, white ponies, and blue ribbons. 
He did not give the complacent wraith any name, but he took her for his 
heroine and grew quite fond of her, as well he might, for he gifted her with 
every gift and grace under the sun, and escorted her, unscathed,  through 
trials which would have annihilated any mortal woman. 
Thanks to this inspiration, he got on swimmingly for a time,  but gradually 
the work lost its charm, and he forgot to compose,  while he sat musing, pen 
in hand, or roamed about the gay city to get some new ideas and refresh his 
mind, which seemed to be in a somewhat unsettled state that winter. He did 
not do much,  but he thought a great deal and was conscious of a change of 
some sort going on in spite of himself. 
s genius simmering,  perhaps. I
 he said,  with a secret suspicion all 
the while that it wasn't genius, but something far more common. Whatever 
it was, it simmered to some purpose, for he grew more and more 
discontented with his desultory life, began to long for some real and earnest 
work to go at, soul and body, and finally came to the wise conclusion that 
everyone who loved music was not a composer. Returning from one of 
Mozart's grand operas, splendidly performed at the Royal Theatre, he looked 
over his own, played a few of the best parts, sat staring at the busts of 
Mendelssohn, Beethoven,  and bach, who stared benignly back again. Then 
391
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 suddenly he tore up his music sheets, one by one, and as the last fluttered 
out of his hand, he said soberly to himself... 

t genius, and you can
t be a 
humbug any longer. Now what shall I do?" 
That seemed a hard question to answer, and Laurie began to wish he had to 
work for his daily bread. Now if ever, occurred an eligible opportunity for 
`going to the devil
All's well,
I don't believe it, boys will be 
boys, young men must sow their wild oats, and women must not expect 
miracles.
t, Mrs. Grundy, but it
s eyes. If it is 
a feminine delusion, leave us to enjoy it while we may, for without it half the 
beauty and the romance of life is lost, and sorrowful forebodings would 
embitter all our hopes of the brave, tenderhearted little lads, who still love 
their mothers better than themselves and are not ashamed to own it. 
Laurie thought that the task of forgetting his love for Jo would absorb all his 
powers for years, but to his great surprise he discovered it grew easier every 
day. He refused to believe it at first, got angry with himself, and couldn
s heart wouldn
 passed through his mind in one of his reveries, he 
smiled, and glanced up at the picture of Mozart that was before him... 
"Well, he was a great man, and when he couldn
 
Laurie did not utter the words, but he thought them, and the next instant 
kissed the little old ring, saying to himself,  
t! I haven
ll try again,  and if that fails, why then... 
Leaving his sentence unfinished, he seized pen and paper and wrote to Jo, 
telling her that he could not settle to anything while there was the least 
hope of her changing her mind. Couldn
t she, and let him 
come home and be happy? While waiting for an answer he did nothing, but 
he did it energetically, for he was in a fever of impatience. It came at last, 
and settled his mind effectually on one point, for Jo decidedly couldn
t. She was wrapped up in Beth,  and never wished to hear the word 
love again. Then she begged him to be happy with somebody else, but 
always keep a little corner of his ghart for his loving sister Jo. In a postscript 
she desired him not to tell Amy that Beth was worse, she was coming home 
in the spring and there was no need of saddening the remainder of her stay. 
That would be time enough, please God, but Laurie must write to her often, 
and not let her feel lonely, homesick or anxious. 
"So I will, at once. Poor little girl, it will be a sad going home for her, I
 And Laurie opened his desk,  as if writing to Amy had been the 
proper conclusion of the sentence left unfinished some weeks before. 
But he did not write the letter that day, for as he rummaged out his best 
paper, he came across something which changed his purpose. Tumbling 
about in one part of the desk among bills, passports, and business 
documents of various kinds were several of Jo's letters, and in another 
compartment were three notes from Amy, carefully tied up with one of her 
blue ribbons and sweetly suggestive of the little dead roses put away inside. 
with a half-repentant, half-amused expression,  Laurie gathered up all Jo's 
393
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 letters, smoothed, folded, and put them neatly into a small drawer of the 
desk, stood a minute turning the ring thoughtfully on his finger, then slowly 
drew it off, laid it with the letters, locked the drawer, and went out to hear 
High Mass at Saint Stefan's, feeling as if there had been a funeral, and 
though not overwhelmed with affliction,  this seemed a more proper way to 
spend the rest of the day than in writing letters to charming young ladies. 
The letter went very soon, however, and was promptly answered, for Amy 
was homesick, and confessed it in the most delightfully confiding manner. 
The correspondence flourished famously, and letters flew to and fro with 
unfailing regularity all through the early spring. Laurie sold his busts, made 
allumettes of his opera, and went back to Paris, hoping somebody would 
arrive before long. He wanted desperately to go to Nice, but would not till he 
was asked, and Amy would not ask him, for just then she was having little 
experiences of her own, which made her rather wish to avoid the quizzical 
eyes of `out boy'. 
Fred Vaughn had returned, and put the question to which she had once 
decided to answer, 
 but now she said, 
 
kindly but steadily, for when the time came, her courage failed her, and she 
found that something more than money and position was needed to satisfy 
the new longing that filled her heart so full of tender hopes and fears. The 
words, 
 and Laurie's face when he uttered them, kept returning to her as 
pertinaciously as her own did when she said in look, if not in words, 
 It troubled her to remember that now, she wished she 
could take it back, it sounded so unwomanly.  She didn't want Laurie to 
think her a heartless, worldly creature. She didn't care to be a queen of 
society now half so much as she did to be a lovable woman. She was so glad 
he didn't hate her for the dreadful things she said,  but took them so 
beautifully and was kinder than ever. His letters were such a comfort, for 
the home letters were very irregular and not half so satisfactory as his when 
they did come. It was not only a pleasure, but a duty to answer them,  for 
the poor fellow was forlorn, and needed petting, since Jo persisted in being 
stonyhearted. She ought to have made an effort and tried to love him. It 
couldn't be very hard,  many people would be proud and glad to have such a 
dear boy care for them. But Jo never would act like other girls, so there was 
nothing to do but be very kind and treat him like a brother. 
If all brothers were treated as well as Laurie was at this period, they would 
be a much happier race of beings than they are. Amy never lectured now. 
She asked his opinion on all subjects, she was interested in everything he 
394
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 did, made charming little presents for him, and sent him two letters a week, 
full of lively gossip, sisterly confidences, and captivating sketches of the 
lovely scenes about her. As few brothers are complimented by having their 
letters carried about in their sister's pockets, read and reread diligently,  
cried over when short, kissed when long, and treasured carefully, we will not 
hint that Amy did any of these fond and foolish things. But she certainly did 
grow a little pale and pensive that spring, lost much of her relish for society,  
and went out sketching alone a good deal. She never had much to show 
when she came home, but was studying nature, I dare say, while she sat for 
hours, with her hands folded, on the terrace at Valrosa, or absently 
sketched any fancy that occurred to her, a stalwart knight carved on a 
tomb, a young man asleep in the grass, with his hat over his eyes, or a curly 
haired girl in gorgeous array, promenading down a ballroom on the arm of a 
tall gentleman, both faces being left a blur according to the last fashion in 
art, which was safe but not altogether satisfactory. 
Her aunt thought that she regretted her answer to Fred,  and finding denials 
useless and explanations impossible, Amy left her to think what she liked, 
taking care that Laurie should know that Fred had gone to Egypt. That was 
all, but he understood it, and looked relieved, as he said to himself,  with a 
venerable air . .. 

ve been through it 
all, and I can sympathize." 
With that he heaved a great sigh, and then, as if he had discharged his duty 
to the past, put his feet up on the sofa and enjoyed Amy
, and in the middle of the speech departed to find mademoiselle 
himself. 
A pleasant old garden on the borders of the lovely lake,  with chestnuts 
rustling overhead, ivy climbing everywhere, and the black shadow of the 
tower falling far across the sunny water. At one corner of the wide, low wall 
was a seat, and here Amy often came to read or work, or console herself with 
the beauty all about her. She was sitting here that day, leaning her head on 
her hand, with a homesick heart and heavy eyes,  thinking of Beth and 
wondering why Laurie did not come. She did not hear him cross the 
courtyard beyond, nor see him pause in the archway that led from the 
subterranean path into the garden. He stood a minute looking at her with 
new eyes, seeing what no one had ever seen before, the tender side of Amy
Oh, Laurie, Laurie, I knew you'd come to me!
s place and make him happy. He did not tell her so, but she was 
not disappointed, for both felt the truth,  were satisfied, and gladly left the 
rest to silence. 
In a minute Amy went back to her place, and while she dried her tears, 
Laurie gathered up the scattered papers,  finding in the sight of sundry well
worn letters and suggestive sketches good omens for the future. As he sat 
down beside her,  amy felt shy again, and turned rosy red at the recollection 
of her impulsive greeting. 
396
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "I couldn
t come," she said,  trying in vain to speak quite naturally. 
"I came the minute I heard. I wish I could say something to comfort you for 
the loss of dear little Beth, but I can only feel, and..." He could not get any 
further, for her too turned bashful all of a sudden, and did not quite know 
what to say. He longed to lay Amy
You needn't say anything, this comforts me,
Beth is well 
and happy, and I mustn't wish her back,  but I dread the going home, much 
as I long to see them all. We won't talk about it now, for it makes me cry, 
and I want to enjoy you while you stay. You needn't go right back, need 
you?
Not if you want me, dear.
I do, so much. Aunt and Flo are very kind, but you seem like one of the 
family, and it would be so comfortable to have you for a little while.
Poor little soul, you look as if you'd grieved yourself half sick! I'm going to 
take care of you, so don't cry any more, but come and walk about with me, 
the wind is too chilly for you to sit still,
s altered face, she was illuminated with 
a new idea, and exclaimed to herself,  "Now I understand it all--the child has 
been pining for young Laurence. Bless my heart, I never thought of such a 
thing!" 
With praiseworthy discretion, the good lady said nothing,  and betrayed no 
sign of enlightenment, but cordially urged Laurie to stay and begged Amy to 
enjoy his society, for it would do her more good than so much solitude. Amy 
was a model of docility, and as her aunt was a good deal occupied with Flo, 
she was left to entertain her friend, and did it with more than her usual 
success. 
At Nice, Laurie had lounged and Amy had scolded. At Vevay, Laurie was 
never idle, but always walking, riding,  boating, or studying in the most 
energetic manner, while Amy admired everything he did and followed his 
example as far and as fast as she could. He said the change was owing to 
the climate, and she did not contradict him, being glad of a like excuse for 
her own recovered health and spirits. 
The invigorating air did them both good, and much exercise worked 
wholesome changes in minds as well as bodies. They seemed to get clearer 
views of life and duty up there among the everlasting hills. The fresh winds 
blew away desponding doubts, delusive fancies, and moody mists. The warm 
spring sunshine brought out all sorts of aspiring ideas,  tender hopes, and 
happy thoughts. The lake seemed to wash away the troubles of the past, and 
the grand old mountains to look benignly down upon them saying, "Little 
children,  love one another." 
In spite of the new sorrow, it was a very happy time, so happy that Laurie 
could not bear to disturb it by a word. It took him a little while to recover 
from his surprise at the cure of his first, and as he had firmly believed, his 
last and only love. He consoled himself for the seeming disloyalty by the 
thought that Jo
s self, and the conviction 
that it would have been impossible to love any other woman but Amy so 
soon and so well. His first wooing had been of the tempestuous order, and 
he looked back upon ;it as if through a long vista of years with a feeling of 
compassion blended with regret. He was not ashamed of it,  but put it away 
as one of the bitter-sweet experiences of his life, for which he could be 
grateful when the pain was over. His second wooing, he resolved, should be 
as calm and simple as possible. There was no need of having a scene, hardly 
any need of telling Amy that he loved her, she knew it without words and 
had given him his answer long ago. It all came about so naturally that no 
one could complain, and he knew that everybody would be pleased, even Jo. 
398
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 But when our first little passion has been crushed, we are apt to be wary 
and slow in making a second trial, so Laurie let the days pass, enjoying 
every hour, and leaving to chance the utterance of the word that would put 
an end to the first and sweetest part of his new romance. 
He had rather imagined that the denoument would take place in the 
chateau garden by moonlight, and in the most graceful and decorus 
manner, but it turned out exactly the reverse, for the matter was settled on 
the lake at noonday in a few blunt words. They had been floating about all 
the morning, from gloomy St. Gingolf to sunny Montreux, with the Alps of 
Savoy on one side, Mont St. Bernard and the Dent du Midi on the other, 
pretty Vevay in the valley, and Lausanne upon the hill beyond, a cloudless 
blue sky overhead, and the bluer lake below, dotted with the picturesque 
boats that look like white-winged gulls. 
They had been talking of Bonnivard, as they glided past Chillon, and of 
Rousseau, as they looked up at Clarens, where he wrote his Heloise. Neither 
had read it, but they knew it was a love story, and each privately wondered 
if it was half as interesting as their own. Amy had been dabbling her hand in 
the water during the little pause that fell between them, and when she 
looked up, Laurie was leaning on his oars with an expression in his eyes 
that made her say hastily, merely for the sake of saying something . . 
"You must be tired. Rest a little, and let me row. It will do me good, for since 
you came I have been altogether lazy and luxurious." 
"I
s room enough, 
though I have to sit nearly in the middle, else the boat won
 returned 
Laurie, as if he rather liked the arrangment. 
Feeling that she had not mended matters much, Amy took the offered third 
of a seat, shook her hair over her face, and accepted an oar. She rowed as 
well as she did many other things, and though she used both hands, and 
Laurie but one, the oars kept time, and the boat went smoothly through the 
water. 

t we?" said Amy, who objected to silence just 
then. 
"So well that I wish we might always pull in the same boat. Will you, Amy?" 
very tenderly. 
"Yes, Laurie," very low. 
399
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 Then they both stopped rowing, and unconsciously added a pretty little 
tableau of human love and happiness to the dissolving views reflected in the 
lake. 
400
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER FORTY-TWO 
It was easy to promise self-abnegation when self was wrapped up in 
another, and heart and soul were purified by a sweet example. But when the 
helpful voice was silent, the daily lesson over, the beloved presence gone, 
and nothing remained but lonliness and grief, then Jo found her promise 
very hard to keep. How could she `comfort Father and Mother
 when all its light and warmth and beauty seemed 
to have deserted it when Beth left the old home for the new, and where in all 
the world could she `find some useful, happy work to do
I can't do it. I wasn't meant for a life like this, and I know I 
shall break away and do something desperate if somebody doesn't come and 
help me,
Oh, Beth, come back! Come back!
s faintest whisper, her mother 
came to comfort her, not with words only, but the patient tenderness that 
soothes by a touch, tears that were mute reminders of a greater grief than 
Jo
s 
401
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 burden seemed easier to bear,  duty grew sweeter, and life looked more 
endurable, seen from the safe shelter of her mother
Father, 
talk to me as you did to Beth. I need it more than she did, for I'm all wrong.
My dear, nothing can comfort me like this,
s little chair close beside him, Jo told her troubles, the 
resentful sorrow for her loss, the fruitless efforts that discouraged her, the 
want of faith that made life look so dark, and all the sad bewilderment 
which we call despair. She gave him entire confidence, he gave her the help 
she needed, and both found consolation in the act. For the time had come 
when they could talk together not only as father and daughter, but as man 
and woman, able and glad to serve each other with mutual sympathy as well 
as mutual love. Happy, thoughtful times there in the old study which Jo 
called `the church of one member
s orderly ways, and giving the little touches 
here and there that kept everything fresh and cozy, which was the first step 
toward making home happy, though she didn
You thoughtful creeter, you're determined we shan't miss that dear lamb ef 
you can help it. We don't say much, but we see it, and the Lord will bless 
you for't, see ef He don't.
Marriage is an excellent thing, after all. I wonder if I should blossom out 
half as well as you have, if I tried it?
It's just what you need to bring out the tender womanly half of your nature, 
Jo. You are like a chestnut burr, prickly outside,  but silky-soft within, and 
a sweet kernal, if one can only get at it. Love will make you show your heart 
one day, and then the rough burr will fall off.
Frost opens chestnut burrs, ma`am, and it takes a good shake to bring 
them down. Boys go nutting, and I don't care to be bagged by them,
s old spirit, but she felt 
it her duty to enforce her opinion by every argument in her power, and the 
sisterly chats were not wasted, especially as two of Meg
s was nearly ready for the bag. A little more 
sunshine to ripen the nut, then, not a boy
s 
hand reached up to pick it gently from the burr, and find the kernal sound 
and sweet. If she suspected this, she would have shut up tight, and been 
more prickly than ever, fortunately she wasn
t a heroine, she was only a struggling human girl like 
hundreds of others, and she just acted out her nature, being sad, cross, 
listless, or energetic, as the mood suggested. It
ll 
be good, but we can
Why don't you write? That always used to make you happy,
I've no heart to write, and if I had, nobody cares for my things.
We do. Write something for us, and never mind the rest of the world. Try it, 
dear. I'm sure it would do you good, and please us very much.
Don't believe I can.
I don't understand it. What can there be in a simple little story like that to 
make people praise it so?
There is truth in it, Jo, that's the secret. Humor and pathos make it alive, 
and you have found your style at last. You wrote with not thoughts of fame 
and money, and put your heart into it,  my daughter. You have had the 
bitter, now comes the sweet. Do your best, and grow as happy as we are in 
your success.
If there is anything good or true in what I write, it isn't mine. I owe it all to 
you and Mother and Beth,
s words 
than by any amount of praise from the world. 
So taught by love and sorrow, Jo wrote her little stories,  and sent them 
away to make friends for themselves and her, finding it a very charitable 
world to such humble wanderers, for they were kindly welcomed, and sent 
home comfortable tokens to their mother,  like dutiful children whom good 
fortune overtakes. 
When Amy and Laurie wrote of their engagement, Mrs. March feared that Jo 
would find it difficult to rejoice over it, but her fears were soon set at rest, 
for thought Jo looked grave at first, she took it very quietly, and was full of 
hopes and plans for `the children
You like it, Mother?
Yes, I hoped it would be so, ever since Amy wrote that she had refused 
Fred. I felt sure then that something better than what you call the 
`mercenary spirit' had come over her, and a hint here and there in her 
letters made me suspect that love and Laurie would win the day.
How sharp you are, Marmee, and how silent! You never said a worked to 
me.
Mothers have need of sharp eyes and discreet tongues when they have girls 
to manage. I was half afraid to put the idea into your head, lest you should 
write and congratulate them before the thing was settled.
I'm not the scatterbrain I was. You may trust me. I'm sober and sensible 
enough for anyone's confidante now.
So you are, my dear, and I should have made you mine,  only I fancied it 
might pain you to learn that your Teddy loved someone else.
Now, Mother, did you really think I could be so silly and selfish, after I'd 
refused his love, when it was freshest, if not best?
I knew you were sincere then, Jo, but lately I have thought that if he came 
back, and asked again, you might perhaps, feel like giving another answer. 
Forgive me, dear, I can't help seeing that you are very lonely, and sometimes 
405
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 there is a hungry look in your eyes that goes to my heart. So I fancied that 
your boy might fill the empty place if he tried now.
No, Mother, it is better as it ia, and I'm glad Amy has learned to love him. 
But you are right in one thing. I am lonely, and perhaps if Teddy had tried 
again, I might have said `Yes', not because I love him any more, but because 
I care more to be loved than when he went away.
I'm glad of that, Jo, for it shows that you are getting on. There are plenty to 
love you, so try to be satisfied with Father and Mother, sisters and brothers, 
friends and babies, till the best lover of all comes to give you your reward.
Mothers are the best lovers in the world, but I don't mind whispering to 
Marmee that I'd like to try all kinds. It's very curious, but the more I try to 
satisfy myself with all sorts of natural affections, the more I seem to want. 
I'd no idea hearts could take in so many. Mine is so elastic, it never seems 
full now, and I used to be quite contented with my family. I don't 
understand it.
I do.
It is so beautiful to be loved as Laurie loves me. He isn't sentimental, 
doesn't say much about it, but I see and feel it in all he says and does, and 
it makes me so happy and so humble that I don't seem to be the same girl I 
was. I never knew how good and generous and tender he was till now, for he 
lets me read his heart,  and I find it full of noble impulses and hopes and 
purposes, and am so proud to know it's mine. He says he feels as if he 
`could make a prosperous voyage now with me aboard as mate, and lots of 
love for ballast'. I pray he may, and try to be all he believes me, for I love my 
gallant captain with all my heart and soul and might, and never will desert 
him, while God lets us be together. Oh, Mother, I never knew how much like 
heaven this world could be,  when two people love and live for one another!
And that's our cool, reserved, and worldly Amy! Truly, love does work 
miracles. How very, very happy they must be!
s happiness woke the hungry longing for someone to `love with heart 
and soul, and cling to while God let them be together
s unquiet wanderings ended stood four little wooden chests in a 
row, each marked with its owners name, and each filled with relics of the 
childhood and girlhood ended now for all. Jo glanced into them, and when 
she came to her own, leaned her chin on the edge, and stared absently at 
the chaotic collection, till a bundle of old exercise books caught her eye. She 
drew them out, turned them over, and relived that pleasant winter at kind 
Mrs. Kirke
s hand, her 
lips began to tremble, the books slid out of her lap, and she sat looking at 
the friendly words, as they took a new meaning, and touched a tender spot 
in her heart. 
"Wait for me, my friend. I may be a little late, but I shall surely come." 
"Oh, if he only would! So kine, so good, so patient with me always, my dear 
old Fritz. I didn
m all 
alone." 
And holding the little paper fast, as if it were a promise yet to be fulfilled, Jo 
laid her head down on a comfortable rag bag, and cried, as if in opposition 
to the rain pattering on the roof. 
Was it all self-pity, loneliness, or low spirits? Or was it the waking up of a 
sentiment which had bided its time as patiently as its inspirer? Who shall 
say? 
407
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER FORTY-THREE 
Jo was alone in the twilight, lying on the old sofa, looking at the fire, and 
thinking. It was her favorite way of spending the hour of dusk. No one 
disturbed her, and she used to lie there on Beth
An old maid, that's what I'm to be. A literary spinster,  with a pen for a 
spouse, a family of stories for children, and twenty years hence a morsel of 
fame, perhaps, when, like poor Johnson, I'm old and can't enjoy it, solitary, 
and can't share it, independent, and don't need it. Well, I needn't be a sour 
saint nor a selfish sinner, and, I dare say, old maids are very comfortable 
when they get used to it, but...
s not as bad as it looks, and one can get on quite happily if 
one has something in one
t 
laugh at the spinsters, dear girls, for often very tender, tragic romances are 
hidden away in the hearts that beat so quietly under the sober gowns, and 
many silent sacrifices of youth, health, ambition, love itself, make the faded 
faces beautiful in God
t last forever, that silver threads will come in the bonnie brown 
hair, and that, by-and-by, kindness and respect will be as sweet as love and 
admiration now. 
Gentlemen, which means boys, be courteous to the old maids,  no matter 
how poor and plain and prim, for the only chivalry worth having is that 
408
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 which is the readiest to pay deference to the old, protect the feeble, and 
serve womankind, regardless of rank, age, or color. Just recollect the good 
aunts who have not only lectured and fussed, but nursed and petted, too 
often without thanks, the scrapes they have helped you out of, the tips they 
have given you from their small store, the stitches the patient old fingers 
have set for you, the steps the willing old feet have taken, and gratefully pay 
the dear old ladies the little attentions that women love to receive as long as 
they live. The bright-eyed girls are quick to see such traits, and will like you 
all the better for them, and if death, almost the only power that can part 
mother and son, should rob you of yours, you will be sure to find a tender 
welcome and maternal cherishing from some Aunt Priscilla, who has kept 
the warmest corner of her lonely old heart for `the best nevvy in the world
s ghost seemed to stand before her, a 
substantial, lifelike ghost, leaning over her with the very look he used to 
wear when he felt a good deal and didn
Oh my Teddy! Oh my Teddy!
Dear Jo, you are glad to see me, then?
Glad! My blessed boy, words can't express my gladness. Where's Amy?
Your mother has got her down at Meg's. We stopped there by the way, and 
there was no getting my wife out of their clutches.
Your what?
Oh, the dickens! Now I've done it.
You've gone and got married!
Yes, please, but I never will again.
Actually married?
Very much so, thank you.
Mercy on us. What dreadful thing will you do next?
A characteristic, but not exactly complimentary, congratulation,
What can you expect, when you take one's breath away, creeping in like a 
burglar, and letting cats out of bags like that? Get up, you ridiculous boy, 
and tell me all about it.
Not a word, unless you let me come in my old place, and promise not to 
barricade.
The old pillow is up garret, 
and we don't need it now. So, come and fess, Teddy.
How good it sounds to hear you say `Teddy'! No one ever calls me that but 
you.
What does Amy call you?
My lord.
That's like her. Well, you look it.
s eye plainly betrayed that she 
found her boy comelier than ever. 
The pillow was gone, but there was a barricade, nevertheless,  a natural one, 
raised by time absence, and change of heart. Both felt it, and for a minute 
looked at one another as if that invisible barrier cast a little shadow over 
them. It was gone directly however, for Laurie said, with a vain attempt at 
dignity... 
"Don
 
ve grown bigger and bonnier, but you are the same 
scapegrace as ever." 
"Now really, Jo, you ought to treat me with more respect," began Laurie, who 
enjoyed it all immensely. 
"How can I, when the mere idea of you, married and settled,  is so 
irresistibly funny that I can
 answered Jo,  smiling all over her 
face, so infectiously that they had another laugh, and then settled down for 
a good talk, quite in the pleasant old fashion. 
410
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
s no use your going out in the cold to get Amy, for they are all coming up 
presently. I couldn
 as we used to say when we squabbled about 
the cream." 
"Of course you did, and spoiled your story by beginning at the wrong end. 
Now, start right, and tell me how it all happened. I
 

 began Laurie, with a twinkle that made Jo 
exclaim... 

 

s beginning to marm it. Isn
 said Laurie to the 
fire, and the fire glowed and sparkled as if it quite agreed. 
s all the same, 
you know, she and I being one. We planned to come home with the Carrols, 
a month or more ago, but they suddenly changed their minds, and decided 
to pass another winter in Paris. But Grandpa wanted to come home. He 
went to please me, and I couldn
t let Amy come with us. So I just settled the difficulty 
by saying, `Let
." 
"Of course you did. You always have things to suit you." 
"Not always." And something in Laurie
How did you ever get Aunt to agree?
It was hard work, but between us, we talked her over, for we had heaps of 
good reasons on our side. There wasn't time to write and ask leave, but you 
all liked it, had consented to it by-and-by,  and it was only `taking time by 
the fetlock', as my wife says.
Aren't we proud of those two word, and don't we like to say them?
A trifle, perhaps, she's such a captivating 
little woman I can't help being proud of her. Well, then Uncle and Aunt were 
there to play propriety. We were so absorbed in one another we were of no 
mortal use apart, and that charming arrangement would make everything 
easy all round, so we did it.
When, where, how?
Six weeks ago, at the American consul's, in Paris, a very quiet wedding of 
course, for even in our happiness we didn't forget dear little Beth.
Why didn't you let us know afterward?
We wanted to surprise you. We thought we were coming directly home, at 
first, but the dear old gentleman, as soon as we were married, found he 
couldn't be ready under a month, at least, and sent us off to spend our 
honeymoon wherever we liked. Amy had once called Valrosa a regular 
honeymoon home, so we went there, and were as happy as people are but 
once in their lives. My faith! Wasn't it love among the roses!
Jo, dear, I want to say one thing, and then we'll put it by forever. As I told 
you in my letter when I wrote that Amy had been so kind to me, I never shall 
stop loving you, but the love is altered, and I have learned to see that it is 
better as it is. Amy and you changed places in my heart, that's all. I think it 
was meant to be so, and would have come about naturally, if I had waited, 
as you tried to make me, but I never could be patient, and so I got a 
heartache. I was a boy then, headstrong and violent,  and it took a hard 
lesson to show me my mistake. For it was one,  Jo, as you said, and I found 
it out, after making a fool of myself. Upon my word, I was so tumbled up in 
my mind, at one time, that I didn't know which I loved best, you or Amy, 
and tried to love you both alike. But I couldn't, and when I saw her in 
Switzerland,  everything seemed to clear up all at once. You both got into 
your right places, and I felt sure that it was well off with the old love before 
it was on with the new, that I could honestly share my heart between sister 
Jo and wife Amy, and love them dearly. Will you believe it, and go back to 
the happy old times when we first knew one another?
I'll believe it, with all my heart, but, Teddy, we never can be boy and girl 
again. The happy old times can't come back, and we mustn't expect it. We 
are man and woman now, with sober work to do,  for playtime is over, and 
we must give up frolicking. I'm sure you feel this. I see the change in you, 
and you'll find it in me. I shall miss my boy, but I shall love the man as 
much, and admire him more, because he means to be what I hoped he 
would. We can't be little playmates any longer, but we will be brother and 
sister,  to love and help one another all our lives, won't we, Laurie?
t the coming home to be a sad one, "I can
s 
pinafore, and pulling your hair when you teased. Mercy me, how time does 
fly!" 
"As one of the children is older than yourself, you needn
m a `gentleman growed
ll find her rather a precocious infant," said 
Laurie, looking amused at her maternal air. 
"You may be a little older in years, but I
 

s a line, and there
ve 
had a great deal to bear, and had to bear it all alone. What a selfish beast 
I
 And Laurie pulled his own hair, with a remorseful look. 
But Jo only turned over the traitorous pillow, and answered,  in a tone 
which she tried to make more cheerful, 
s good for me, and..." 
"You never shall be again," broke in Laurie, putting his arm about her, as if 
to fence out every human ill. "Amy and I can
 to keep house, and go halves in 
413
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 everything, just as we used to do,  and let us pet you, and all be blissfully 
happy and friendly together." 
"If I shouldn
 And Jo leaned her head on his 
shoulder, just as she did years ago,  when Beth lay ill and Laurie told her to 
hold on to him. 
He looked down at her, wondering if she remembered the time,  but Jo was 
smiling to herself, as if in truth her troubles had all vanished at his coming. 

 

 

 

 

t mind telling you that she does now, at least I let her think so, it 
pleases her, you know. By-and-by we shall take turns, for marriage, they 
say, halves one
s duties." 
"You
 

t think I shall mind much. She 
is the sort of woman who knows how to rule well. In fact, I rather like it, for 
she winds one round her finger as softly and prettily as a skein of silk, and 
makes you feel as if she was doing you a favor all the while." 
"That ever I should live to see you a henpecked husband and enjoying it!" 
cried Jo, with uplifted hands. 
It was good to see Laurie square his shoulders, and smile with masculine 
scorn at that insinuation, as he replied, with his "high and mighty" air, "Amy 
is too well-bred for that, and I am not the sort of man to submit to it. My 
wife and I respect ourselves and one another too much ever to tyrannize or 
quarrel." 
Jo like that, and thought the new dignity very becoming, but the boy seemed 
changing very fast into the man, and regret mingled with her pleasure. 
414
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "I am sure of that. Amy and you never did quarrel as we used to. She is the 
sun and I the wind, in the fable, and the sun managed the man best, you 
remember." 
"She can blow him up as well as shine on him," laughed Laurie. "such a 
lecture as I got at Nice! I give you my word it was a deal worse than any or 
your scoldings, a regular rouser. I
 

ll defend you." 
"I look as if I needed it, don
 said Laurie, getting up and striking an 
attitude which suddenly changed from the imposing to the rapturous, as 
Amy's voice was heard calling, 
s my dear old Jo?" 
In trooped the whole family, and everyone was hugged and kissed all over 
again, and after several vain attempts, the three wanderers were set down to 
be looked at and exulted over. Mr. Laurence, hale and hearty as ever, was 
quite as much improved as the others by his foreign tour, for the crustiness 
seemed to be nearly gone, and the old-fashioned courtliness had received a 
polish which made it kindlier than ever. It was good to see him beam at `my 
children
t a Parisian air, that young Mrs. Mofffat would be entirely 
eclipsed by young Mrs. Laurence, and that `her ladyship
How well they look together! I was right, and Laurie has found the 
beautiful, accomplished girl who will become his home better than clumsy 
old Jo, and be a pride, not a torment to him.
s face was full of the soft brightness which betokens a peaceful 
heart, her voice had a new tenderness in it, and the cool,  prim carriage was 
changed to a gentle dignity, both womanly and winning.  No little 
affectations marred it, and the cordial sweetness of her manner was more 
charming than the new beauty or the old grace,  for it stamped her at once 
415
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 with the unmistakable sign of the true gentlewoman she had hoped to 
become. 
"Love has done much for our little girl," said her mother softly. 
"She has had a good example before her all her life, my dear," Mr. March 
whispered back, with a loving look at the worn face and gray head beside 
him. 
Daisy found it impossible to keep her eyes off her `pitty aunty
Young man, when I first had the honor of making your acquaintance you 
hit me in the face. Now I demand the satisfaction of a gentleman,
Blest if she ain't in silk from head to foot? Ain't it a relishin' sight to see her 
settin' there as fine as a fiddle, anch a happy procession as filed away into 
the little dining room! Mr. March proudly escorted Mrs. Laurence. Mrs. 
March as proudly leaned on the arm of `my son'. The old gentleman took Jo, 
with a whispered,  
 and a glance at the empty 
corner by the fire, that made Jo whisper back, 
ll try to fill her place, sir. 
The twins pranced behind, feeling that the millennium was at hand, for 
everyone was so busy with the newcomers that they were left to revel at their 
own sweet will, and you may be sure they made the most of the opportunity. 
Didn
t they each whisk a captivating 
little tart into their tiny pockets, there to stick and crumble treacherously,  
teaching them that both human nature and a pastry are frail? Burdened 
with the guilty consciousness of the sequestered tarts, and fearing that 
Dodo
, 
who hadn
s arm. The others 
paired off as before, and this arrangement left Jo companionless. She did 
416
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 not mind it at the minute, for she lingered to answer Hannah
Will Miss Amy ride in her coop (coupe), and use all them lovely silver dishes 
that's stored away over yander?
Shouldn't wonder if she drove six white horses, ate off gold plate, and wore 
diamonds and point lace every day. Teddy thinks nothing too good for her,
No more there is! Will you have hash or fishballs for breakfast?
I don't care.
s short plaid legs toiled up the last stair, a sudden sense of 
lonliness came over her so strongly that she looked about her with dim eyes, 
as if to find something to lean upon, for even Teddy had deserted her. If she 
had known what birthday gift was coming every minute nearer and nearer, 
she would not have said to herself, "I
t do to be dismal now." Then she drew her hand over her eyes, for one 
of her boyish habits was never to know where her handkerchief was, and 
had just managed to call up a smile when there came a knock at the porch 
door. 
She opened with hospitable haste, and started as if another ghost had come 
to surprise her, for there stood a tall bearded gentleman, beaming on her 
from the darkness like a midnight sun. 
"Oh, Mr. Bhaer, I am so glad to see you!" cried Jo, with a clutch, as if she 
feared the night would swallow him up before she could get him in. 
"And I to see Miss Marsch, but no, you haf a party," and the Professor 
paused as the sound of voices and the tap of dancing feet came down to 
them. 
"No, we haven
 
Though a very social man, I think Mr. Bhaer would have gone decorously 
away, and come again another day, but how could he,  when Jo shut the 
door behind him, and bereft him of his hat? Perhaps her face had something 
to do with it, for she forgot to hide her joy at seeing him, and showed it with 
417
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 a frankness that proved irresistible to the solitary man, whose welcome far 
exceeded his boldest hopes. 

 
He put the question abruptly, for, as Jo hung up his coat,  the light fell on 
her face, and he saw a change in it. 

 

 And he 
shook hands again, with such a sympathetic face that Jo felt as if no 
comfort could equal the look of the kind eyes, the grasp of the big, warm 
hand. 

 she said, with a face 
and tone of such irrepressible pride and pleasure that she might as well 
have blown a trumpet and opened the door with a flourish. 
If the stranger had any doubts about his reception, they were set at rest in a 
minute by the cordial welcome he received. Everyone greeted him kindly, for 
Jo's sake at first, but very soon they liked him for his own. They could not 
help it, for he carried the talisman that opens all hearts, and these simple 
people warmed to him at once, feeling even the more friendly because he 
was poor. For poverty enriches those who live above it, and is a sure 
passport to truly hospitable spirits. Mr. Bhaer sat looking about him with 
the air of a traveler who knocks at a strange door, and when it opens, finds 
himself at home. The children went to him like bees to a honeypot, and 
establishing themselves on each knee, proceeded to captivate him by rifling 
his pockets, pulling his beard, and investigating his watch, with juvenile 
audacity. The women telegraphed their approval to one another, and Mr. 
March, feeling that he had got a kindred spirit, opened his choicest stores 
for his guest's benefit, while silent John listened and enjoyed the talk, but 
said not a word, and Mr. Laurence found it impossible to go to sleep. 
If Jo had not been otherwise engaged, Laurie's behavior would have amused 
her, for a faint twinge, not of jealousy, but something like suspicion, caused 
that gentleman to stand aloof at first, and observe the newcomer with 
brotherly circumspection. But it did not last long. He got interested in spite 
of himself,  and before he knew it, was drawn into the circle. For Mr. Bhaer 
talked well in this genial atmosphere, and did himself justice. He seldom 
spoke to Laurie, but he looked at him often, and a shadow would pass 
across his face, as if regretting his own lost youth, as he watched the young 
418
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 man in his prime. Then his eyes would turn to Jo so wistfully that she 
would have surely answered the mute inquiry if she had seen it. But Jo had 
her own eyes to take care of, and feeling that they could not be trusted, she 
prudently kept them on the little sock she was knitting, like a model maiden 
aunt. 
A stealthy glance now and then refreshed her like sips of fresh water after a 
dusty walk, for the sidelong peeps showed her several propitious omens. Mr. 
Bhaer's face had lost the absent-minded expression, and looked all alive 
with interest in the present moment, actually young and handsome, she 
thought,  forgetting to compare him with Laurie, as she usually did strange 
men, to their great detriment. Then he seemed quite inspired,  though the 
burial customs of the ancients, to which the conversation had strayed, 
might not be considered an exhilarating topic. Jo quite glowed with triumph 
when Teddy got quenched in an argument, and thought to herself, as she 
watched her father's absorbed face, 
 Lastly, Mr. Bhaer was dressed in a 
new suit of black, which made him look more like a gentleman than ever. 
His bushy hair had been cut and smoothly brushed, but didn't stay in order 
long, for in exciting moments, he rumpled it up in the droll way he used to 
do, and Jo liked it rampantly erect better than flat, because she thought it 
gave his fine forehead a Jove-like aspect. Poor Jo, how she did glorify that 
plain man, as she sat knitting away so quietly, yet letting nothing escape 
her, not even the fact that Mr. Bhaer actually had gold sleeve-buttons in his 
immaculate wristbands. 

t have got himself up with more care if he
 said Jo to herself, and then a sudden thought born of the 
words made her blush so dreadfully that she had to drop her ball, and go 
down after it to hide her face. 
The maneuver did not succeed as well as she expected, however, for though 
just in the act of setting fire to a funeral pyre, the Professor dropped his 
torch, metaphorically speaking,  and made a dive after the little blue ball. Of 
course they bumped their heads smartly together, saw stars, and both came 
up flushed and laughing, without the ball, to resume their seats,  wishing 
they had not left them. 
Nobody knew where the evening went to, for Hannah skillfully abstracted 
the babies at an early hour, nodding like two rosy poppies, and Mr. 
Laurence went home to rest. The others sat round the fire, talking away, 
utterly regardless of the lapse of time, till Meg, whose maternal was 
impressed with a firm conviction that Daisy had tumbled out of be, and 
419
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 Demi set his nightgown afire studying the structure of matches, made a 
move to go. 

 said Jo, feeling that a good shout would be a safe and pleasant 
vent for the jubilant emotions of her soul. 
They were not all there. But no one found the words thougtless or untrue, 
for Beth still seemed among them, a peaceful presence, invisible, but dearer 
than ever, since death could not break the household league that love made 
disoluble. The little chair stood in its old place. The tidy basket, with the bit 
of work she left unfinished when the needle grew `so heavy', was still on its 
accustomed shelf. The beloved instrument, seldom touched now had not 
been moved, and above it Beth's face, serene and smiling, as in the early 
days, looked down upon them, seeming to say, 
 

 said 
Laurie, with pardonable pride in his promising pupil. 
But Amy whispered, with full eyes, as she twirled the faded stool, 
t show off tonight." 
But she did show something better than brilliancy or skill,  for she sang 
Beth
s hearts with a sweeter power 
than any other inspiration could have given her. The room was very still, 
when the clear voice failed suddenly at the last line of Beth
s kiss. 
"Now, we must finish with Mignon
 said Jo, 
before the pause grew painful. And Mr. Bhaer cleared his throat with a 
gratified 
 as he stepped into the corner where Jo stood, saying... 

 
A pleasing fiction, by the way, for Jo had no more idea of music than a 
grasshopper. But she would have consented if he had proposed to sing a 
whole opera, and warbled away, blissfully regardless of time and tune. It 
didn't much matter, for Mr. Bhaer sang like a true German, heartily and 
well, and Jo soon subsided into a subdued hum, that she might listen to the 
420
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 mellow voice that seemed to sing for her alone. Know'st thou the land where 
the citron blooms,  
used to be the Professor's favorite line, for `das land' meant Germany to him, 
but now he seemed to dwell, with peculiar warmth and melody, upon the 
words... 
There, oh there, might I with thee,  O, my beloved, go 
and one listener was so thrilled by the tender invitation that she longed to 
say she did know the land, and would joyfully depart thither whenever he 
liked The song was considered a great success, and the singer retired 
covered with laurels. But a few minutes afterward, he forgot his manners 
entirely, and stared at Amy putting on her bonnet, for she had been 
introduced simply as `my sister', and on one had called her by her new 
name since her came. He forgot himself still further when Laurie said, in his 
most gracious manner, at parting... 

 
Then the Professor thanked him so heartily, and looked so suddenly 
illuminated with satisfaction, that Laurie thought him the most delightfully 
demonstrative old fellow he ever met. 

 
He spoke to Mrs. March, but he looked at Jo, and the mother's voice gave as 
cordial an assent as did the daughter's eyes, for Mrs. March was not so 
blind to her children's interest as Mrs. Moffat supposed. 

 remarked Mr. March, with placid satisfaction, 
from the hearthrug, after the last guest had gone. 

 added Mrs. March, with decided approval, as she 
wound up the clock. 

d like him," was all Jo said, as she slipped away to her bed. 
She wondered what the business was that brought Mr. Bhaer to the city, 
and finally decided that he had been appointed to some great honor, 
somewhere, but had been too modest to mention the fact. If she had seen 
his face when, safe in his own room, he looked at the picture of a severe and 
rigid young lady, with a good deal of hair, who appeared to be gazing darkly 
421
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 into futurity,  it might have thrown some light upon the subject, especially 
when he turned off the gas, and kissed the picture in the dark. 
422
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER FORTY-FOUR 
"Please, Madam Mother, could you lend me my wife for half an hour? The 
luggage has come, and I
s Paris finery, trying to 
find some things I want," said Laurie, coming in the next day to find Mrs. 
Laurence sitting in her mother
 again. 
"Certainly. Go, dear, I forgot that you have any home but this." And Mrs. 
March pressed the white hand that wore the wedding ring, as if asking 
pardon for her maternal covetousness. 
"I shouldn
t get on 
without my little woman any more than a..." 
"Weathercock can without the wind," suggested Jo, as he paused for a 
simile. Jo had grown quite her own saucy self again since Teddy came home. 
"Exactly, for Amy keeps me pointing due west most of the time, with only an 
occasional whiffle round to the south, and I haven
t know anything about the north, but am 
altogether salubrious and balmy,  hey, my lady?" 
"Lovely weather so far. I don
m not afraid 
of storms, for I
ll 
find your bootjack. I suppose that
 said Amy, with a matronly air, 
which delighted her husband. 

 asked Jo, 
buttoning Amy's cloak as she used to button her pinafores. 

t mean to say much about them yet, because 
we are such very new brooms, but we don
m going into 
business with a devotion that shall delight Grandfather, and prove to him 
that I
m 
tired of dawdling,  and mean to work like a man." 
"And Amy, what is she going to do?" asked Mrs. March, well pleased at 
Laurie
After doing the civil all round, and airing our best bonnet,  we shall 
astonish you by the elegant hospitalities of our mansion,  the brilliant 
society we shall draw about us, and the beneficial influence we shall exert 
423
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 over the world at large. That's about it, isn't it, Madame Recamier?
Time will show. Come away, Impertinence, and don't shock my family by 
calling me names before their faces,
How happy those children seem together!
Yes, and I think it will last,
I know it will. Happy Amy!
Mrs. Laurence.
My Lord!
That man intends to marry our Jo!
I hope so, don't you, dear?
Well, my love, I consider him a trump, in the fullest sense of that expressive 
word, but I do wish he was a little younger and a good deal richer.
Now, Laurie, don't be too fastidious and worldly-minded. If they love one 
another it doesn't matter a particle how old they are nor how poor. Women 
never should marry for money...
Certainly not, though you do hear charming girls say that they intend to do 
it sometimes. If my memory serves me, you once thought it your duty to 
make a rich match. That accounts,  perhaps, for your marrying a good-for
nothing like me.
Oh, my dearest boy, don't, don't say that! I forgot you were rich when I said 
`Yes'. I'd have married you if you hadn't a penny, and I sometimes wish you 
were poor that I might show how much I love you.
You don't really think I am such a mercenary creature as I tried to be once, 
do you? It would break my heart if you didn't believe that I'd gladly pull in 
the same boat with you,  even if you had to get your living by rowing on the 
lake.
Am I an idiot and a brute? How could I think so, when you refused a richer 
man for me, and won't let me give you half I want to now, when I have the 
right? Girls do it every day,  poor things, and are taught to think it is their 
only salvation,  but you had better lessons, and though I trembled for you at 
one time, I was not disappointed, for the daughter was true to the mother's 
teaching. I told Mamma so yesterday, and she looked as glad and grateful as 
if I'd given her a check for a million, to be spent in charity. You are not 
listening to my moral remarks, Mrs. Laurence.
s eyes had an absent look, though fixed upon his face. 
"Yes, I am, and admiring the mple in your chin at the same time. I don
m prouder of my handsome 
husband than of all his money. Don
 And Amy softly caressed the well-cut feature with artistic 
satisfaction. 
Laurie had received many compliments in his life, but never one that suited 
him better, as he plainly showed though he did laugh at his wife's peculiar 
taste, while she said slowly, 
 

 

 

s the trouble is it? I thought there was something in the dimple 
that didn
s wedding with a heart as light as 
my heels. Do you doubt it, my darling?" 
Amy looked up at him, and was satisfied. Her little jealous fear vanished 
forever, and she thanked him, with a face full of love and confidence. 
"I wish we could do something for that capital old Professor. Couldn
 said Laurie,  when they began to pace up 
and down the long drawing room, arm in arm, as they were fond of doing, in 
memory of the chateau garden. 
425
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
 

t think so when she has a literary husband, 
and a dozen little professors and professorins to support. We won
s paying their 
honest debts, so I
 

t it? That was always one 
of my dreams, to have the power of giving freely, and thanks to you, the 
dream has come true." 
"Ah, we
t we? There
t ask, and people don
s 
wrong, but I do, though it is harder." 
"Because it takes a gentleman to do it," added the other member of the 
domestic admiration society. 
"Thank you, I
t deserve that pretty compliment. But I was 
going to say that while I was dawdling about abroad, I saw a good many 
talented young fellows making all sorts of sacrifices, and enduring real 
hardships, that they might realize their dreams. Splendid fellows, some of 
them, working like heros, poor and friendless, but so full of courage, 
patience, and ambition that I was ashamed of myself, and longed to give 
them a right good lift. Those are people whom it
ve got genius, it
t, it
 

s another class who can
 

 cried Laurie,  resolving, with a 
glow of philanthropic zeal, to found and endow an institution for the express 
benefit of young women with artistic tendencies. 
s not half so sensible to leave legacies when one dies as it is to 
use the money wisely while alive, and enjoy making one
ll have a good time ourselves, and add an extra relish to 
our own pleasure by giving other people a generous taste. Will you be a little 
Dorcal, going about emptying a big basket of comforts, and filling it up with 
good deeds?" 
"With all my heart, if you will be a brave St. Martin,  stopping as you ride 
gallantly through the world to share your cloak with the beggar." 
"It
 
So the young pair shook hands upon it, and then paced happily on again, 
feeling that their pleasant home was more homelike because they hoped to 
brighten other homes, believing that their own feet would walk more 
uprightly along the flowery path before them, if they smoothed rough ways 
for other feet,  and feeling that their hearts were more closely knit together 
by a love which could tenderly remember those less blest than they. 
427
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER FORTY-FIVE 
I cannot feel that I have done my duty as humble historian of the March 
family, without devoting at least one chapter to the two most precious and 
important members of it. Daisy and Demi had now arrived at years of 
discretion, for in this fast age babies of three or four assert their rights, and 
get them,  too, which is more than many of their elders do. If there ever were 
a pair of twins in danger of being utterly spoiled by adoration, it was these 
prattling Brookes. Of course they were the most remarkable children ever 
born, as will be shown when I mention that they walked at eight months, 
talked fluently at twelve months, and at two years they took their places at 
table, and behaved with a propriety which charmed all beholders.  At three, 
Daisy demanded a `needler', and actually made a bag with four stitches in 
it. She likewise set up housekeeping in the sideboard, and managed a 
microscopic cooking stove with a skill that brought tears of pride to 
Hannah's eyes, while Demi learned his letters with his grandfather, who 
invented a new mode of teaching the alphabet by forming letters with his 
arms and legs, thus uniting gymnastics for head and heels. The boy early 
developed a mechanical genius which delighted his father and distracted his 
mother, for he tried to imitate every machine he saw, and kept the nursery 
in a chaotic condition, with his `sewinsheen', a mysterious structure of 
string, chairs, clothespins, and spools, for wheels to go `wound and wound'. 
Also a basket hung over the back of a chair,  in which he vainly tried to 
hoist his too confiding sister, who,  with feminine devotion, allowed her little 
head to be bumped till rescued, when the young inventor indignantly 
remarked, 
s my lellywaiter, and me
 
Though utterly unlike in character, the twins got on remarkably well 
together, and seldom quarreled more than thrice a day. Of course, Demi 
tyrannized over Daisy, and gallantly defended her from every other 
aggressor, while Daisy made a galley slave of herself, and adored her brother 
as the one perfect being in the world. A rosy, chubby, sunshiny little soul 
was Daisy, who found her way to everybody's heart, and nestled there. One 
of the captivating children, who seem made to be kissed and cuddled, 
adorned and adored like little goddesses,  and produced for general approval 
on all festive occasions. Her small virtues were so sweet that she would have 
been quite angelic if a few small naughtinesses had not kept her delightfully 
human. It was all fair weather in her world, and every morning she 
scrambled up to the window in her little nightgown to look our, and say, no 
428
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 matter whether it rained or shone,  
 Everyone 
was a friend, and she offered kisses to a stranger so confidingly that the 
most inveterate bachelor relented, and baby-lovers became faithful 
worshipers. 

 she once said, opening her arms, with her spoon in one 
hand, and her mug in the other, as if eager to embrace and nourish the 
whole world. 
As she grew, her mother began to feel that the Dovecote would be blessed by 
the presence of an inmate as serene and loving as that which had helped to 
make the old house home, and to pray that she might be spared a loss like 
that which had lately taught them how long they had entertained an angel 
unawares. Her grandfather often called her `Beth', and her grandmother 
watched over her with untiring devotion, as if trying to atone for some past 
mistake, which no eye but her own could see. 
Demi, like a true Yankee, was of an inquiring turn, wanting to know 
everything, and often getting much disturbed because he could not get 
satisfactory answers to his perpetual 
 
He also possessed a philosophic bent, to the great delight of his grandfather, 
who used to hold Socratic conversations with him,  in which the precocious 
pupil occasionally posed his teacher, to the undisguised satisfaction of the 
womenfolk. 

 asked the young philosopher,  surveying 
those active portions of his frame with a meditative air,  while resting after a 
go-to-bed frolic one night. 

s your little mind, Demi," replied the sage, stroking the yellow head 
respectfully. 
"What is a little mine?" 
"It is something which makes your body move, as the spring made the 
wheels go in my watch when I showed it to you." 
"Open me. I want to see it go wound." 
"I can
 

 And Demi's brown eyes grew big and bright as he took in the new 
thought. 
 
429
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
t show you how, for it is done when we don
 
Demi felt his back, as if expecting to find it like that of the watch, and then 
gravely remarked, 
s asleep." 
A careful explanation followed, to which he listened so attentively that his 
anxious grandmother said, "My dear, do you think it wise to talk about such 
things to that baby? He
 

 
If the boy had replied like Alcibiades, 
 
his grandfather would not have been surprised, but when, after standing a 
moment on one leg, like a meditative young stork, he answered, in a tone of 
calm conviction, 
 the old gentleman could only join in 
Grandma's laugh, and dismiss the class in metaphysics. 
There might have been cause for maternal anxiety, if Demi had not given 
convincing proofs that he was a true boy, as well as a budding philosopher, 
for often, after a discussion which caused Hannah to prophesy, with 
ominous nods, 
t long for this world," he would turn about 
and set her fears at rest by some of the pranks with which dear, dirty, 
naughty little rascals distract and delight their parent
No more raisins, Demi. They'll make you sick,
Me likes to be sick.
I don't want to have you, so run away and help Daisy make patty cakes.
Now you have been good children, and I'll play anything you like,
Truly, Marmar?
Yes, truly. Anything you say,
The Three Little Kittens
Buy a penny bun,
Then we'll go and eat up all the raisins.
 better than she did him,  but though 
hurt, he concealed his anguish, for he hadn
t see it in that light, and continued to patronize the `the bear
man
s devotion was sincere, however 
likewise effective--for honesty is the best policy in love as in law. He was one 
of the men who are at home with children, and looked particularly well when 
little faces made a pleasant contrast with his manly one. His business, 
whatever it was, detained him from day to day, but evening seldom failed to 
bring him out to see--well, he always asked for Mr. March, so I suppose he 
was the attraction. The excellent papa labored under the delusion that he 
431
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 was, and reveled in long discussions with the kindred spirit, till a chance 
remark of his more observing grandson suddenly enlightened him. 
Mr. Bhaer came in one evening to pause on the threshold of the study, 
astonished by the spectacle that met his eye. Prone upon the floor lay Mr. 
March, with his respectable legs in the air, and beside him, likewise prone, 
was Demi, trying to imitate the attitude with his own short, scarlet
stockinged legs, both grovelers so seriously absorbed that they were 
unconscious of spectators,  till Mr. Bhaer laughed his sonorous laugh, and 
Jo cried out, with a scandalized face... 
"Father, Father, here
 
Down went the black legs and up came the gray head, as the preceptor said, 
with undisturbed dignity, 
 

 And, after a few convulsive efforts, the red legs tok the shape 
of a pair of compasses, and the intelligent pupil triumphantly shouted, 
s 
a We, Dranpa, it
 

s a born Weller," laughed Jo, as her parent gathered himself up, and her 
nephew tried to stand on his head, as the only mode of expressing his 
satisfaction that school was over. 
"What have you been at today, bubchen?" asked Mr. Bhaer, picking up the 
gymnast. 
"Me went to see little Mary." 
"And what did you there?" 
"I kissed her," began Demi, with artless frankness. "Prut! Thou beginnest 
early. What did the little Mary say to that?" asked Mr. Bhaer, continuing to 
confess the young sinner,  who stood upon the knee, exploring the waistcoat 
pocket. 
"Oh, she liked it, and she kissed me, and I liked it. Don
 asked Demi, with his mouth full,  and an air of bland satisfaction. 

 said Jo,  enjoying the 
innocent revelation as much as the Professor. 
432
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 
t in mine head, it
 answered literal Demi, putting out 
his tongue, with a chocolate drop on it, thinking she alluded to 
confectionery, not ideas. 

 And Mr. Bhaer offered Jo some, with a look that made her 
wonder if chocolate was not the nectar drunk by the gods. Demi also saw 
the smile, was impressed by it, and artlessy inquired. .. 

Fessor?" 
Like young Washington, Mr. Bhaer `couldn
, so he gave the 
somewhat vague reply that he believed they did sometimes, in a tone that 
made Mr. March put down his clothesbrush,  glance at Jo
 had put an 
idea into his head that was both sweet and sour. 
Why Dodo, when she caught him in the china closet half an hour afterward, 
nearly squeezed the breath out of his little body with a tender embrace, 
instead of shaking him for being there,  and why she followed up this novel 
performance by the unexpected gift of a big slice of bread and jelly, remained 
one of the problems over which Demi puzzled his small wits, and was forced 
to leave unsolved forever. 
433
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER FORTY-SIX 
While Laurie and Amy were taking conjugal strolls over velvet carpets, as 
they set their house in order, and planned a blissful future, Mr. Bhaer and 
Jo were enjoying promenades of a different sort, along muddy roads and 
sodden fields. 
"I always do take a walk toward evening, and I don
 said Jo 
to herself, after two or three encounters, for though there were two paths to 
Meg's whichever one she took she was sure to meet him., either going or 
returning.  He was always walking rapidly, and never seemed to see her 
until quite close, when he would look as if his short-sighted eyes had failed 
to recognize the approaching lady till that moment. Then, if she was going to 
Meg's he always had something for the babies. If her face was turned 
homeward, he had merely strolled down to see the river, and was just 
returning, unless they were tired of his frequent calls. 
Under the circumstances, what could Jo do but greet him civilly, and invite 
him in? If she was tired of his visits, she concealed her weariness with 
perfect skill, and took care that there should be coffee for supper, 
t like tea." 
By the second week, everyone knew perfectly well what was going on, yet 
everyone tried to look as if they were stone-blind to the changes in Jo
t even lose her heart in a decorous manner, but sternly tried to 
quench her feelings, and failing to do so, led a somewhat agitated life. She 
was mortally afraid of being laughed at for surrendering, after her many and 
vehement declarations of independence. Laurie was her especial dread, but 
thanks to the new manager, he behaved with praiseworthy propriety, never 
called Mr. Bhaer `a capital old fellow
s improved appearance, or expressed the least 
surprise at seeing the Professor
 table nearly every 
evening. But he exulted in private and longed for the time to come when he 
could give Jo a piece of plate, with a bear and a ragged staff on it as an 
appropriate coat of arms. 
434
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 For a fortnight, the Professor came and went with lover-like regularity. Then 
he stayed away for three whole days, and made no sign, a proceeding which 
caused everybody to look sober, and Jo to become pensive, at first, and 
then--alas for romance--very cross. 
"Disgusted, I dare say, and gone home as suddenly as he came. It
 she said to herself,  with a despairing look at the gate, as 
she put on her things for the customary walk one dull afternoon. 

d better take the little umbrella, dear. It looks like rain," said her 
mother, observing that she had on her new bonnet,  but not alluding to the 
fact. "Yes, Marmee, do you want anything in town? I
 returned Jo, pulling out the bow under her chin before the 
glass as an excuse for not looking at her mother. 

 

 answered Jo absently. 

 added Mrs. March. 
Jo heard that, but made no answer, except to kiss her mother,  and walk 
rapidly away, thinking with a glow of gratitude, in spite of her heartache, 

t any mothers to help 
them through their troubles?" 
The dry-goods stores were not down among the counting-houses,  banks, 
and wholesale warerooms, where gentlemen most do congregate,  but Jo 
found herself in that part of the city before she did a single errand, loitering 
along as if waiting for someone, examining engineering instruments in one 
window and samples of wool in another, with most unfeminine interest, 
tumbling over barrels,  being half-smothered by descending bales, and 
hustled unceremoniously by busy men who looked as if they wondered `how 
the deuce she got there
 over the door, and said to herself,  with a sternly reproachful 
air... 
"It serves me right! what business had I to put on all my best things and 
come philandering down here, hoping to see the Professor? Jo, I
s no more than 
you deserve. Now then!" 
With that she rushed across the street so impetuously that she narrowly 
escaped annihilation from a passing truck, and precipitated herself into the 
arms of a stately old gentleman, who said, "I beg pardon, ma
 and 
looked mortally offended. Somewhat daunted, Jo righted herself, spread her 
handkerchief over the devoted ribbons, and putting temptation behind her, 
hurried on,  with increasing dampness about the ankles, and much clashing 
of umbrellas overhead. The fact that a somewhat dilapidated blue one 
remained stationary above the unprotected bonnet attracted her attention, 
and looking up, she saw Mr. Bhaer looking down. 

 

m shopping." 
Mr. Bhaer smiled, as he glanced from the pickle factory on one side to the 
wholesale hide and leather concern on the other,  but her only said politely, 
"You haf no umbrella. May I go also,  and take for you the bundles?" 
"Yes, thank you." 
Jo
t care, for in a minute she found herself walking away arm 
in arm with her Professor, feeling as if the sun had suddenly burst out with 
uncommon brilliancy, that the world was all right again, and that one 
thoroughly happy woman was paddling through the wet that day. 
"We thought you had gone," said Jo hastily, for she knew he was looking at 
her. Her bonnet wasn
Did you believe that I should go with no farewell to those who haf been so 
heavenly kind tome?
No, I didn't. I knew you were busy about your own affairs,  but we rather 
missed you, Father and Mother especially.
And you?
I'm always glad to see you, sir.
I thank you, and come one more time before I go.
You are going, then?
I haf no longer any business here, it is done.
Successfully, I hope?
I ought to think so, for I haf a way opened to me by which I can make my 
bread and gif my Junglings much help.
Tell me, please! I like to know all about the--the boys,
That is so kind, I gladly tell you. My friends find for me a place in a college, 
where I teach as at home, and earn enough to make the way smooth for 
Franz and Emil. For this I should be grateful, should I not?
Indeed you should. How splendid it will be to have you doing what you like, 
and be able to see you often, and the boys!
Ah! But we shall not meet often, I fear, this place is at the West.
So far away!
t matter now 
what became of her clothes or herself. 
Mr. Bhaer could read several languages, but he had not learned to read 
women yet. He flattered himself that he knew Jo pretty well, and was, 
therefore, much amazed by the contradictions of voice, face, and manner, 
437
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 which she showed him in rapid succession that day, for she was in half a 
dozen different moods in the course of half an hour. When she met him she 
looked surprised, though it was impossible to help suspecting that she had 
come for that express purpose. When he offered her his arm,  she took it 
with a look that filled him with delight, but when he asked if she missed 
him, she gave such a chilly, formal reply that despair fell upon him. On 
learning his good fortune she almost clapped her hands. Was the joy all for 
the boys? Then on hearing his destination, she said, "So far away!" in a tone 
of despair that lifted him on to a pinnacle of hope, but the next minute she 
tumbled him down again by observing, like one entirely absorbed in the 
matter... 
"Here
t take long." 
Jo rather prided herself upon her shopping capabilities,  and particularly 
wished to impress her escort with the neatness and dispatch with which she 
would accomplish the business. But owing to the flutter she was in, 
everything went amiss. She upset the tray of needles, forgot the silesia was 
to be `twilled
Should we no do a little what you call shopping for the babies, and haf a 
farewell feast tonight if I go for my last call at your so pleasant home?
What will we buy?
May they haf oranges and figs?
They eat them when they can get them.
Do you care for nuts?
Like a squirrel.
Hamburg grapes. Yes, we shall drink to the Fatherland in those?
t buy a 
frail of dated, a cask of raisins, and a bag of almonds, and be done with it? 
438
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 Whereat Mr. Bhaer confiscated her purse, produced his own, and finished 
the marketing by buying several pounds of grapes, a pot of rosy daisies, and 
a pretty jar of honey, to be regarded in the light of a demijohn. Then 
distorting his pockets with knobby bundles, and giving her the flowers to 
hold, he put up the old umbrella, and they traveled on again. 
"Miss Marsch, I haf a great favor to ask of you," began the Professor, after a 
moist promenade of half a block. 
"Yes, sir." And Jo
I am bold to say it in spite of the rain, because so short a time remains to 
me.
Yes, sir.
I wish to get a little dress for my Tina, and I am too stupid to go alone. Will 
you kindly gif me a word of taste and help?
Yes, sir.
Perhaps also a shawl for Tina's mother, she is so poor and sick,  and the 
husband is such a care. Yes, yes, a thick, warm shawl would be a friendly 
thing to take the little mother.
I'll do it with pleasure, Mr. Bhaer. I'm going very fast,  and he's getting 
dearer every minute,
Your lady may prefer this. It's a superior article, a most desirable color, 
quite chaste and genteel,
s shoulders. 
"Does this suit you, Mr. Bhaer?" she asked, turning her back to him, and 
feeling deeply grateful for the chance of hiding her face. "Excellently well, we 
will haf it," answered the Professor,  smiling to himself as he paid for it, 
while Jo continued to rummage the counters like a confirmed bargain
hunter. 
439
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Now shall we go home?" he asked, as if the words were very pleasant to 
him. 
"Yes, it
m so tired." Jo
This is not our omniboos,
I beg your pardon. I didn't see the name distinctly. Never mind, I can walk. 
I'm used to plodding in the mud,
Heart's dearest, why do you cry?
t crying, had a cold in her head, or told any other feminine fib proper 
to the occasion. Instead of which,  that undignified creature answered, with 
an irrepressible sob,  "Because you are going away." 
"Ach, mein Gott, that is so good!" cried Mr. Bhaer, managing to clasp his 
hands in spite of the umbrella and the bundles, "Jo, I haf nothing but much 
love to gif you. I came to see if you could care for it, and I waited to be sure 
that I was something more than a friend. Am I? Can you make a little place 
in your heart for old Fritz?" he added, all in one breath. 
"Oh, yes!" said Jo, and he was quite satisfied, for she folded both hands over 
his are, and looked up at him with an expression that plainly showed how 
happy she would be to walk through life beside him, even though she had 
no better shelter than the old umbrella, if he carried it. 
It was certainly proposing under difficulties, for even if he had desired to do 
so, Mr. Bhaer could not go down upon his knees, on account of the mud. 
Neither could he offer Jo his hand, except figuratively, for both were full. 
Much less could he indulge in tender remonstrations in the open street, 
though he was near it. So the only way in which he could express his 
440
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 rapture was to look at her, with an expression which glorified his face to 
such a degree that there actually seemed to be little rainbows in the drops 
that sparkled on his beard. If he had not loved Jo very much, I don
 than ever, though his hatbrim 
was quite limp with the little rills trickling thence upon his shoulders (for he 
held the umbrella all over Jo), and every finger of his gloves needed 
mending. 
Passers-by probably thought them a pair of harmless lunatics, for they 
entirely forgot to hail a bus, and strolled leisurely along, oblivious of 
deepening dusk and fog. Little they cared what anybody thought, for they 
were enjoying the happy hour that seldom comes but once in any life, the 
magical moment which bestows youth on the old, beauty on the plain,  
wealth on the poor, and gives human hearts a foretaste of heaven. The 
Professor looked as if he had conquered a kingdom, and the world had 
nothing more to offer him in the way of bliss. While Jo trudged beside him, 
feeling as if her place had always been there, and wondering how she ever 
could have chosen any other lot. Of course, she was the first to speak-
intelligibly, I mean, for the emotional remarks which followed her impetuous 

 were not of a coherent or reportable character. 

t you..." 
"Ah, heaven, she gifs me the name that no one speaks since Minna died!" 
cried the Professor, pausing in a puddle to regard her with grateful delight. 
"I always call you so to myself--I forgot, but I won
 

,  also, and I shall 
say your language is almost as beautiful as mine." 
"Isn
 a little sentimental?" asked Jo, privately thinking it a lovely 
monosyllable. 
"Sentimental? Yes. Thank Gott, we Germans believe in sentiment,  and keep 
ourselves young mit it. Your English `you
, heart
 pleaded Mr. Bhaer,  more like a romantic 
student than a grave professor. 

t thou tell me all this sooner?" asked Jo bashfully. 
441
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "Now I shall haf to show thee all my heart, and I so gladly will, because thou 
must take care of it hereafter. See, then, my Jo--ah, the dear, funny little 
name--I had a wish to tell something the day I said goodbye in New York, 
but I thought the handsome friend was betrothed to thee, and so I spoke 
not. Wouldst thou have said `Yes
 

t know. I
t have any heart just then." 
"Prut! That I do not believe. It was asleep till the fairy prince came through 
the wood, and waked it up. Ah, well, `Die erste Liebe ist die beste
 

 said Jo, anxious to 
correct the Professor's mistake. 

 

 cried Jo, delighted with her new name. 
 

 And Mr. Bhaer took a little worn paper out of his waistcoat pocket. 
Jo unfolded it, and looked much abashed, for it was one of her own 
contributions to a paper that paid for poetry, which accounted for her 
sending it an occasional attempt. 

 she asked, wondering what he meant. 

 
 IN THE GARRET Four little chests all in a row,  Dim with dust, and worn by 
time,  All fashioned and filled, long ago,  By children now in their prime. 
Four little keys hung side by side,  With faded ribbons, brave and gay When 
fastened there, with childish pride,  Long ago, on a rainy day. Four little 
names, one on each lid,  Carved out by a boyish hand,  And underneath 
there lieth hid Histories of the happpy band Once playing here, and pausing 
oft To hear the sweet refrain,  That came and went on the roof aloft,  In the 
falling summer rain. 

 on the first lid, smooth and fair. I look in with loving eyes,  For folded 
here, with well-known care,  A goodly gathering lies,  The record of a 
442
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 peaceful life-- Gifts to gentle child and girl,  A bridal gown, lines to a wife,  A 
tiny shoe, a baby curl. No toys in this first chest remain,  For all are carried 
away,  In their old age, to join again In another small Meg's play. Ah, happy 
mother! Well I know You hear, like a sweet refrain,  Lullabies ever soft and 
low In the falling summer rain. 

 on the next lid, scratched and worn,  And within a motley store Of 
headless, dolls, of schoolbooks torn,  Birds and beasts that speak no more,  
Spoils brought home from the fairy ground Only trod by youthful feet,  
Dreams of a future never found,  Memories of a past still sweet,  Half-writ 
poems, stories wild,  April letters, warm and cold,  Diaries of a wilful child,  
Hints of a woman early old,  A woman in a lonely home,  Hearing, like a sad 
refrain-- 
 In the falling summer rain. 
My Beth! the dust is always swept From the lid that bears your name,  As if 
by loving eyes that wept,  By careful hands that often came. Death 
cannonized for us one saint,  Ever less human than divine,  And still we lay, 
with tender plaint,  Relics in this household shrine-- The silver bell, so 
seldom rung,  The little cap which last she wore,  The fair, dead Catherine 
that hung By angels borne above her door. The songs she sang, without 
lament,  In her prison-house of pain,  Forever are they sweetly blent With 
the falling summer rain. 
Upon the last lid's polished field-- Legend now both fair and true A gallant 
knight bears on his shield,  
 in letters gold and blue. Within lie snoods 
that bound her hair,  Slippers that have danced their last,  Faded flowers 
laid by with care,  Fans whose airy toils are past,  Gay valentines, all ardent 
flames,  Trifles that have borne their part In girlish hopes and fears and 
shames,  The record of a maiden heart Now learning fairer, truer spells,  
Hearing, like a blithe refrain,  The silver sound of bridal bells In the falling 
summer rain. 
Four little chests all in a row,  Dim with dust, and worn by time,  Four 
women, taught by weal and woe To love and labor in their prime. Four 
sisters, parted for an hour,  None lost, one only gone before,  Made by love's 
immortal power,  Nearest and dearest evermore. Oh, when these hidden 
stores of ours Lie open to the Father's sight,  May they be rich in golden 
hours,  Deeds that show fairer for the light,  Lives whose brave music long 
shall ring,  Like a spirit-stirring strain,  Souls that shall gladly soar and sing 
In the long sunshine after rain. 

s very bad poetry, but I felt it when I wrote it, one day when I was very 
lonely, and had a good cry on a rag bag. I never thought it would go where it 
443
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 could tell tales," said Jo, tearing up the verses the Professor had treasured 
so long. 
"Let it go, it has done it
 said Mr. Bhaer with a 
smile as he watched the fragments fly away on the wind. 
 he added 
earnestly, 
If this is not too poor a thing to gif for what I shall 
hope to receive, take it in Gott's name?
And so you came to find that it was not too poor, but the one precious thing 
I needed,
I had no courage to think that at first, heavenly kind as was your welcome 
to me. But soon I began to hope, and then I said, `I will haf her if I die for it,' 
and so I will!
What made you stay away so long?
It was not easy, but I could not find the heart to take you from that so 
happy home until I could haf a prospect of one to gif you, after much time, 
perhaps, and hard work. How could I ask you to gif up so much for a poor 
old fellow, who has no fortune but a little learning?
I'm glad you are poor. I couldn't bear a rich husband,
Don't fear poverty. I've known it long enough to lose 
my dread and be happy working for those I love, and don't call yourself old-
forty is the prime of life. I couldn't help loving you if you were seventy!
t, Jo wiped his eyes 
for him, and said, laughing, as she took away a bundle or two... 
"I may be strong-minded, but no one can say I
s special mission is supposed to be drying tears and bearing 
burdens. I
ll never go," she added resolutely, as he tried to 
reclaim his load. 
"We shall see. Haf you patience to wait a long time, Jo? I must go away and 
do my work alone. I must help my boys first,  because, even for you, I may 
not break my word to Minna. Can you forgif that, and be happy while we 
hope and wait?" 
"Yes, I know I can, for we love one another, and that makes all the rest easy 
to bear. I have my duty, also, and my work. I couldn
s no need of hurry or impatience. You 
can do your part out West, I can do mine here, and both be happy hoping 
for the best, and leaving the future to be as God wills." 
"Ah! Thou gifest me such hope and courage, and I haf nothing to gif back 
but a full heart and these empty hands," cried the Professor, quite 
overcome. 
Jo never, never would learn to be proper, for when he said that as they 
stood upon the steps, she just put both hands into his, whispering tenderly, 
"Not empty now," and stooping down,  kissed her Friedrich under the 
umbrella. It was dreadful, but she would have done it if the flock of draggle
tailed sparrows on the hedge had been human beings, for she was very far 
gone indeed, and quite regardless of everything but her own happiness. 
Though it came in such a very simple guise, that was the crowning moment 
of both their lives, when, turning from the night and storm and loneliness to 
the household light and warmth and peace waiting to receive them, with a 
glad "Welcome home!" Jo led her lover in, and shut the door. 
445
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 CHAPTER FORTY-SEVEN 
For a year Jo and her Professor worked and waited, hoped and loved, met 
occasionally, and wrote such voluminous letters that the rise in the price of 
paper was accounted for, Laurie said. The second year began rather soberly, 
for their prospects did not brighten, and Aunt March died suddenly. But 
when their first sorrow was over--for they loved the old lady in spite of her 
sharp tongue--they found they had cause for rejoicing, for she had left 
Plumfield to Jo, which made all sorts of joyful things possible. 
"It
 said Laurie, as they were all talking the matter over some 
weeks later. 

t," was Jo
You don't mean to live there?
Yes, I do.
But, my dear girl, it's an immense house, and will take a power of money to 
keep it in order. The garden and orchard alone need two or three men, and 
farming isn't in Bhaer's line, I take it.
He'll try his hand at it there, if I propose it.
And you expect to live on the produce of the place? Well,  that sounds 
paradisiacal, but you'll find it desperate hard work.
The crop we are going to raise is a profitable one,
Of what is this fine crop to consist, ma'am?
Boys. I want to open a school for little lads--a good,  happy, homelike 
school, with me to take care of them and Fritz to teach them.
That's a truly 
Joian plan for you! Isn't that just like her?
I like it,
So do I,
It will be an immense care for Jo,
Jo can do it, and be happy in it. It's a splendid idea. Tell us all about it,
I knew you'd stand by me, sir. Amy does too--I see it in her eyes, though 
she prudently waits to turn it over in her mind before she speaks. Now, my 
dear people,
just understand that this isn't a new 
idea of mine, but a long cherished plan. Before my Fritz came, I used to 
think how, when I'd made my fortune, and no one needed me at home, I'd 
hire a big house, and pick up some poor, forlorn little lads who hadn't any 
mothers, and take care of them, and make life jolly for them before it was 
too late. I see so many going to ruin for want of help at the right minute, I 
love so to do anything for them, I seem to feel their wants, and sympathize 
with their troubles, and oh, I should so like to be a mother to them!
I told my plan to Fritz once, and he said it was just what he would like, and 
agreed to try it when we got rich. Bless his dear heart, he's been doing it all 
his life--helping poor boys, I mean, not getting rich, that he'll never be. 
Money doesn't stay in his pocket long enough to lay up any. But now, 
thanks to my good old aunt, who loved me better than I ever deserved, I'm 
rich,  at least I feel so, and we can live at Plumfield perfectly well,  if we have 
a flourishing school. It's just the place for boys,  the house is big, and the 
furniture strong and plain. There's plenty of room for dozens inside, and 
splendid grounds outside. They could help in the garden and orchard. Such 
work is healthy,  isn't it, sir? Then Fritz could train and teach in his own 
way,  and Father will help him. I can feed and nurse and pet and scold 
them, and Mother will be my stand-by. I've always longed for lots of boys, 
and never had enough, now I can fill the house full and revel in the little 
dears to my heart's content. Think what luxury-- Plumfield my own, and a 
wilderness of boys to enjoy it with me.
d have an 
apoplectic fit. 
447
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "I don
 she said gravely, when she could be heard. 

 

 said Laurie, who regarded the idea in the 
light of a capital joke. 
m afraid your crop 
won
 

t be a wet-blanket, Teddy. Of course I shall have rich pupils, also-
perhaps begin with such altogether. Then,  when I
s children often need 
care and comfort,  as well as poor. I
s real cruelty. Some 
are naughty through mismanagment or neglect, and some lose their 
mothers. Besides, the best have to get through the hobbledehoy age, and 
that
t 
complain much-- plucky little souls--but they feel it. I
ve a special interest in such 
young bears, and like to show them that I see the warm,  honest, well
meaning boys
ve had experience, too,  for haven
 

ll testify that you tried to do it," said Laurie with a grateful look. 
"And I
t 
let them say so. Yes, and when I have my flock, I
s your model, my lads
 
Poor Laurie didn't know where to look, for, man though he was, something 
of the old bashfulness came over him as this burst of praise made all faces 
turn approvingly upon him. 

s rather too much," he began, just in his old boyish way. 
"You have all done more for me than I can ever thank you for, except by 
448
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 doing my best not to disapoint you. You have rather cast me off lately, Jo, 
but I
ve got on at all, you may 
thank these two for it." And he laid one hand gently on his grandfather
s golden one, for the three were never far apart. 
"I do think that families are the most beautiful things in all the world!" burst 
out Jo, who was in an unusually up-lifted frame of mind just then. "When I 
have one of my own, I hope it will be as happy as the three I know and love 
the best. If John and my Fritz were only here, it would be quite a little 
heaven on earth," she added more quietly. And that night when she went to 
her room after a blissful evening of family counsels, hopes,  and plans, her 
heart was so full of happiness that she could only calm it by kneeling beside 
the empty bed always near her own, and thinking tender thoughts of Beth. 
It was a very astonishing year altogether, for things seemed to happen in an 
unusually rapid and delightful manner. Almost before she knew where she 
was, Jo found herself married and settled at Plumfield. Then a family of six 
or seven boys sprung up like mushrooms, and flourished surprisingly, poor 
boys as well as rich, for Mr. Laurence was continually finding some touching 
case of destitution, and begging the Bhaers to take pity on the child,  and he 
would gladly pay a trifle for its support. In this way,  the sly old gentleman 
got round proud Jo, and furnished her with the style of boy in which she 
most delighted. 
Of course it was uphill work at first, and Jo made queer mistakes, but the 
wise Professor steered her safely into calmer waters, and the most rampant 
ragamuffin was conquered in the end. How Jo did enjoy her `wilderness of 
boys
 used to invite rash youths to come and 
be tossed. It became a sort of boys
, as a compliment to its master and 
appropriate to its inhabitants. 
It never was a fashionable school, and the Professor did not lay up a 
fortune, but it was just what Jo intended it to be-- `a happy, homelike place 
for boys, who needed teaching, care, and kindness
. She had boys enough now, and did not tire of them, though 
they were not angels, by any means, and some of them caused both 
Professor and Professorin much trouble and anxiety. But her faith in the 
good spot which exists in the heart of the naughtiest, sauciest, most 
tantalizing little ragamuffin gave her patience, skill, and in time success, for 
no mortal boy could hold out long with Father Bhaer shining on him as 
benevolently as the sun, and Mother Bhaer forgiving him seventy times 
seven. Very precious to Jo was the friendship of the lads, their penitent 
sniffs and whispers after wrongdoing, their droll or touching little 
confidences, their pleasant enthusiasms, hopes, and plans, even their 
misfortunes,  for they only endeared them to her all the more. There were 
slow boys and bashful boys, feeble boys and riotous boys, boys that lisped 
and boys that stuttered, one or two lame ones, and a merry little quadroon, 
who could not be taken in elsewhere, but who was welcome to the `Bhaer
garten
s sunshiny temper as well as his 
mother
s wedding, one of these fruitful festivals occurred, a mellow 
October day, when the air was full of an exhilarating freshness which made 
the spirits rise and the blood dance healthily in the veins. The old orchard 
wore its holiday attire. Goldenrod and asters fringed the mossy walls. 
Grasshoppers skipped briskly in the sere grass, and crickets chirped like 
fairy pipers at a feast. Squirrels were busy with their small harvesting. Birds 
twittered their adieux from the alders in the lane, and every tree stood ready 
to send down its shower of red or yellow apples at the first shake. Everybody 
450
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 was there. Everybody laughed and sang, climbed up and tumbled down. 
Everybody declared that there never had been such a perfect day or such a 
jolly set to enjoy it, and everyone gave themselves up to the simple pleasures 
of the hour as freely as if there were no such things as care or sorrow in the 
world. 
Mr. March strolled placidly about, quoting Tusser, Cowley,  and Columella 
to Mr. Laurence, while enjoying... 
The gentle apple
s nests, and 
kept adventurous Rob from breaking his neck. Mrs. March and Meg sat 
among the apple piles like a pair of Pomonas, sorting the contributions that 
kept pouring in, while Amy with a beautiful motherly expression in her face 
sketched the various groups, and watched over one pale lad, who sat 
adoring her with his little crutch beside him. 
Jo was in her element that day, and rushed about, with her gown pinned 
up, and her hat anywhere but on her head, and her baby tucked under her 
arm, ready for any lively adventure which might turn up. Little Teddy bore a 
charmed life, for nothing ever happened to him, and Jo never felt any 
anxiety when he was whisked up into a tree by one lad, galloped off on the 
back of another, or supplied with sour russets by his indulgent papa,  who 
labored under the Germanic delusion that babies could digest anything, 
from pickled cabbage to buttons, nails, and their own small shoes. She 
knew that little Ted would turn up again in time, safe and rosy, dirty and 
serene, and she always received him back with a hearty welcome, for Jo 
loved her babies tenderly. 
At four o
Aunt March, God bless her!
Now, Grandma's sixtieth birthday! Long life to her, with three times three!
s health was proposed, form Mr. 
Laurence, who was considered their special patron, to the astonished guinea 
pig, who had strayed from its proper sphere in search of its young master. 
Demi, as the oldest grandchild, then presented the queen of the day with 
various gifts, so numerous that they were transported to the festive scene in 
a wheelbarrow. Funny presents, some of them,  but what would have been 
defects to other eyes were ornaments to Grandma
s gifts 
were all their own. Every stitch Daisy
s miracle of mechanical skill, though the cover wouldn
s 
footstool had a wiggle in its uneven legs that she declared was soothing, and 
no page of the costly book Amy
To dear Grandma, from her little 
Beth.
t get over her 
surprise, and insisted on shaking hands with every one of the featherless 
birds, from tall Franz and Emil to the little quadroon, who had the sweetest 
voice of all. 
After this, the boys dispersed for a final lark, leaving Mrs. March and her 
daughters under the festival tree. 
452
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 "I don
 again,  when my 
greatest wish has been so beautifully gratified," said Mrs. Bhaer, taking 
Teddy
And yet your life is very different from the one you pictured so long ago. Do 
you remember our castles in the air?
Dear fellows! It does my heart good to see them forget business and frolic 
for a day,
Yes, I remember, but the life I wanted then seems selfish, lonely, and cold 
to me now. I haven't given up the hope that I may write a good book yet, but 
I can wait, and I'm sure it will be all the better for such experiences and 
illustrations as these.
s arm, as they walked to and fro in the 
sunshine, deep in one of the conversations which both enjoyed so much, 
and then to her mother, sitting enthroned among her daughters, with their 
children in her lap and at her feet, as if all found help and happiness in the 
face which never could grow old to them. 
"My castle was the most nearly realized of all. I asked for splendid things, to 
be sure, but in my heart I knew I should be satisfied, if I had a little home, 
and John, and some dear children like these. I
 And Meg laid her hand on her 
tall boy's head, with a face full of tender and devout content. 

t relinquish all my artistic hopes, or confine myself to 
helping others fulfill their dreams of beauty. I
ve ever done. I think so, myself, 
and mean to do it in marble, so that, whatever happens, I may at least keep 
the image of my little angel." 
As Amy spoke, a great tear dropped on the golden hair of the sleeping child 
in her arms, for her one well-beloved daughter was a frail little creature and 
the dread of losing her was the shadow over Amy
s nature was growing sweeter, deeper, and more 
tender. Laurie was growing more serious, strong, and firm, and both were 
learning that beauty, youth, good fortune, even love itself, cannot keep care 
and pain, loss and sorrow, from the most blessed for ... 
453
www.freeclassicebooks.com
 Into each life some rain must fall,  Some days must be dark and sad and 
dreary. 
 "She is growing better, I am sure of it, my dear. Don
 said Mrs. March, as tenderhearted Daisy stooped from her 
knee to lay her rosy cheek against her little cousin's pale one. 

 replied Amy warmly. 
t love him enough. So, in 
spite of my one cross, I can say with Meg, `Thank God, I
" 
"There
m far happier 
than I deserve," added Jo, glancing from her good husband to her chubby 
children, tumbling on the grass beside her. "Fritz is getting gray and stout. 
I
s set himself afire 
three times already. But in spite of these unromantic facts, I have nothing to 
complain of, and never was so jolly in my life. Excuse the remark, but living 
among boys, I can
 

 began Mrs. March, 
frightening away a big black cricket that was staring Teddy out of 
countenance. 

 cried Jo, with 
the loving impetuosity which she never would outgrow. 

 said Amy softly. 

s room in your heart for it, Marmee dear," 
added Meg
Oh, my girls, however long you may live, I never can wish you a greater 
happiness than this!
