d killed a 
fourteen year old girl and I can tell you right now I never did have no great desire to visit 
with him let alone go to his execution but I done it. The papers said it was a crime of passion 
and he told me there wasn
d been datin this girl, young as she was. He 
was nineteen. And he told me that he had been plannin to kill somebody for about as long as 
he could remember. Said that if they turned him out he
t. I thought I
ve thought about that a lot. He was not hard to talk 
to. Called me Sheriff. But I didn
ve thought about it a good 
deal. But he wasn
t know what them eyes was the windows 
to and I guess I
s where this is going. It has done brought me to a place in my life I would 
not of thought I
t want to confront him. I know he
s even what you are willin 
to do. Because I always knew that you had to be willing to die to even do this job. That was 
always true. Not to sound glorious about it or nothin but you do. If you aint they
ll see it in a heartbeat. I think it is more like what you are willin to become. And I think a 
man would have to put his soul at hazard. And I wont do that. I think now that maybe I never 
would.
 THE DEPUTY LEFT CHIGURH standing in the corner of the office with his hands cuffed 
behind him while he sat in the swivelchair and took off his hat and put his feet up and called 
Lamar on the mobile.
 Just walked in the door. Sheriff he had some sort of thing on him like one of them oxygen 
tanks for emphysema or whatever. Then he had a hose that run down the inside of his sleeve 
and went to one of them stunguns like they use at the slaughterhouse. Yessir. Well that
d practiced many times it was. He dropped his cuffed 
hands over the deputy
s neck and hauled back on the chain.
 They went to the floor. The deputy was trying to get his hands inside the chain but he could 
not. Chigurh lay there pulling back on the bracelets with his knees between his arms and his 
face averted. The deputy was flailing wildly and he
s right carotid artery burst and a jet of blood 
shot across the room and hit the wall and ran down it. The deputy
s belt and released himself and 
put the deputy
s wallet out of his pocket and took the 
money and put it in the pocket of his shirt and dropped the wallet to the floor. Then he picked 
up his air-tank and the stungun and walked out the door and got into the deputy
s the problem, officer? he said.
 Sir would you mind stepping out of the vehicle?
 The man opened the door and stepped out. What
s head 
like a faith healer. The pneumatic hiss and click of the plunger sounded like a door closing. 
The man slid soundlessly to the ground, a round hole in his forehead from which the blood 
bubbled and ran down into his eyes carrying with it his slowly uncoupling world visible to 
see. Chigurh wiped his hand with his handkerchief. I just didnt want you to get blood on the 
car, he said.
 MOSS SAT WITH THE HEELS of his boots dug into the volcanic gravel of the ridge and 
glassed the desert below him with a pair of twelve power german binoculars. His hat pushed 
back on his head. Elbows propped on his knees. The rifle strapped over his shoulder with a 
harness-leather sling was a heavybarreled .270 on a 
d picked to shoot from lay just below a long talus of lava scree and it would put 
him well within that distance. Except that it would take the better part of an hour to get there
 and the antelope were grazing away from him. The best he could say about any of it was that 
there was no wind.
 When he got to the foot of the talus he raised himself slowly and looked for the antelope. 
They
s tooth he wore on a gold chain spooled onto the rocks inside his elbow.
 Even with the heavy barrel and the muzzlebrake the rifle bucked up off the rest. When he 
pulled the animals back into the scope he could see them all standing as before. It took the 
150 grain bullet the better part of a second to get there but it took the sound twice that. They 
were standing looking at the plume of dust where the bullet had hit. Then they bolted. 
Running almost immediately at top speed out upon the barrial with the long whaang of the 
rifleshot rolling after them and caroming off the rocks and yawing back across the open 
country in the early morning solitude.
 He stood and watched them go. He raised the glasses. One of the animals had dropped back 
and was packing one leg and he thought that the round had probably skipped off the pan and 
caught him in the left hindquarters. He leaned and spat. Damn, he said.
 He watched them out of sight beyond the rocky headlands to the south. The pale orange dust 
that hung in the windless morning light grew faint and then it too was gone. The barrial stood 
silent and empty in the sun. As if nothing had occurred there at all. He sat and pulled on his 
boot and picked up the rifle and ejected the spent casing and put it in his shirtpocket and 
closed the bolt. Then he slung the rifle over his shoulder and set out.
 It took him some forty minutes to cross the barrial. From there he made his way up a long 
volcanic slope and followed the crest of the ridge southeast to an overlook above the country 
into which the animals had vanished. He glassed the terrain slowly. Crossing that ground was 
a large tailless dog, black in color. He watched it. It had a huge head and cropped ears and it 
was limping badly. It paused and stood. It looked behind it. Then it went on. He lowered the 
glasses and stood watching it go.
 He hiked on along the ridge with his thumb hooked in the shoulderstrap of the rifle, his hat 
pushed back on his head. The back of his shirt was already wet with sweat. The rocks there 
were etched with pictographs perhaps a thousand years old. The men who drew them hunters 
like himself. Of them there was no other trace.
 At the end of the ridge was a rockslide, a rough trail leading down. Candelilla and scrub 
catclaw. He sat in the rocks and steadied his elbows on his knees and scanned the country 
with the binoculars. A mile away on the floodplain sat three vehicles.
 He lowered the binoculars and looked over the country at large. Then he raised them again. 
There looked to be men lying on the ground. He jacked his boots into the rocks and adjusted 
the focus. The vehicles were four wheel drive trucks or Broncos with big all-terrain tires and 
winches and racks of rooflights. The men appeared to be dead. He lowered the glasses. Then 
he raised them again. Then he lowered them and just sat there. Nothing moved. He sat there 
for a long time.
 When he approached the trucks he had the rifle unslung and cradled at his waist with the 
safety off. He stopped. He studied the country and then he studied the trucks. They were all 
shot up. Some of the tracks of holes that ran across the sheetmetal were spaced and linear and 
he knew they
d seen crossing the floodplain. The dog was gutshot. 
Beyond that was a third body lying face down. He looked through the window at the man in 
the truck. He was shot through the head. Blood everywhere. He walked on to the second 
vehicle but it was empty. He walked out to where the third body lay. There was a shotgun in 
the grass. The shotgun had a short barrel and it was fitted with a pistol stock and a twenty 
round drum magazine. He nudged the man
s face was bloody. He moved his lips dryly. 
Agua, cuate, he said. Agua, por dios.
 He had a shortbarreled H&K machinepistol with a black nylon shoulderstrap lying in his lap 
and Moss reached and got it and stepped back. Agua, the man said. Por dios.
 I aint got no water.
Agua.
 Moss left the door open and slung the H&K over his shoulder and stepped away. The man 
followed him with his eyes. Moss walked around the front of the truck and opened the door 
on the other side. He lifted the latch and folded the seat forward. The cargo space in the rear 
was covered with a metallic silver tarp. He pulled it back. A load of bricksized parcels each 
wrapped in plastic. He kept one eye on the man and got out his knife and cut a slit in one of 
the parcels. A loose brown powder dribbled out. He wet his forefinger and dipped it in the 
powder and smelled it. Then he wiped his finger on his jeans and pulled the tarp back over the 
parcels and stepped back and looked over the country again. Nothing. He walked away from 
the truck and stood and glassed the low hills. The lava ridge. The flat country to the south. He 
got out his handkerchief and walked back and wiped clean everything he
s trail and followed it until he came to blood in the grass. Then more blood.
 You aint goin far, he said. You may think you are. But you aint.
 He quit the track altogether and walked out to the highest ground visible holding the H&K 
under his arm with the safety off. He glassed the country to the south. Nothing. He stood 
fingering the boar
re shaded up 
somewheres watchin your backtrack. And the chances of me seein you fore you see me are 
about as close to nothin as you can get without fallin in.
 He squatted and steadied his elbows on his knees and with the binoculars swept the rocks at 
the head of the valley. He sat and crossed his legs and went over the terrain more slowly and 
then lowered the glasses and just sat. Do not, he said, get your dumb ass shot out here. Do not 
do that.
 He turned and looked at the sun. It was about eleven oclock. We dont even know that all of 
this went down last night. It could of been two nights ago. It might even could of been three.
 Or it could of been last night.
 A light wind had come up. He pushed back his hat and wiped his forehead with his bandanna 
and put the bandanna back in the hip pocket of his jeans. He looked across the caldera toward 
the low range of rock on the eastern perimeter.
 Nothin wounded goes uphill, he said. It just dont happen.
 It was a good hard climb to the top of the ridge and it was close to noon by the time he got 
there. Far off to the north he could see the shape of a tractor-trailer moving across the 
shimmering landscape. Ten miles. Maybe fifteen. Highway 90. He sat and swept the new 
country with the glasses. Then he stopped.
 At the foot of a rockslide on the edge of the bajada was a small piece of something blue. He 
watched it for a long time through the binoculars. Nothing moved. He studied the country 
about. Then he watched it some more. It was the better part of an hour before he rose and 
started down.
 The dead man was lying against a rock with a nickelplated government .45 automatic lying 
cocked in the grass between his legs. He
s trousers but the blood was too well congealed. He stood and stuck the gun in 
his belt at the small of his back and pushed back his hat and blotted the sweat from his 
forehead with his shirtsleeve. He turned and stood studying the countryside. There was a 
heavy leather document case standing upright alongside the dead man
d come down that morning in the 
dark so long ago. Then in about a mile he came to the truck.
 He opened the door and stood the rifle in the floor. He went around and opened the driver 
door and pushed the lever and slid the seat forward and set the case and the machine-pistol 
behind it. He laid the .45 and the binoculars in the seat and climbed in and pushed the seat 
back as far as it would go and put the key in the ignition. Then he took off his hat and leaned 
back and just rested his head against the cold glass behind him and closed his eyes.
 When he got to the highway he slowed and rattled over the bars of the cattleguard and then 
pulled out onto the blacktop and turned on the headlights. He drove west toward Sanderson 
and he kept to the speed limit every mile of the way. He stopped at the gas station on the east 
end of town for cigarettes and a long drink of water and then drove on to the Desert Aire and 
pulled up in front of the trailer and shut off the motor. The lights were on inside. You live to 
be a hundred, he said, and there wont be another day like this one. As soon as he said it he 
was sorry.
 He got his flashlight from the glovebox and climbed out and took the machinepistol and the 
case from behind the seat and crawled up under the trailer. He lay there in the dirt looking up 
at the underside of it. Cheap plastic pipe and plywood. Bits of insulation. He wedged the 
H&K up into a corner and pulled the insulation down over it and lay there thinking. Then he 
crawled back out with the case and dusted himself off and climbed the steps and went in.
 She was sprawled across the sofa watching TV and drinking a Coke. She didnt even look up. 
Three oclock, she said.
 I can come back later.
 She looked at him over the back of the sofa and looked at the television again. What have you 
got in that satchel?
 It
ll be the day.
 He went into the kitchen and got a beer out of the refrigerator.
 Can I have the keys? she said.
 Where you goin.
 Get some cigarettes.
 Cigarettes.
 Yes, Llewelyn. Cigarettes. I been settin here all day.
 What about cyanide? How are we fixed for that?
 Just let me have the keys. I
d you get that pistol? she called.
 At the gettin place.
 Did you buy that thing?
 No. I found it.
 She sat up on the sofa. Llewelyn?
 He came back in. What? he said. Quit hollerin.
 What did you give for that thing?
 You dont need to know everthing.
 How much.
 I told you. I found it.
 No you never done no such a thing.
 He sat on the sofa and put his legs up on the coffeetable and sipped the beer. It dont belong to 
me, he said. I didnt buy no pistol.
 You better not of.
 She opened one of the packs of cigarettes and took one out and lit it with a lighter. Where 
have you been all day?
 Went to get you some cigarettes.
 I dont even want to know. I dont even want to know what all you been up to.
 He sipped the beer and nodded. That
s better just to not even know even.
 You keep runnin that mouth and I
s what she said.
Just let me finish this beer. We
d come to feel comfortable with. Anything but sleep in the dark.
 He swung his feet from under the covers and sat up. He looked at her naked back. Her hair on 
the pillow. He reached and pulled the blanket up over her shoulder and got up and went into 
the kitchen.
 He took the jar of water from the refrigerator and unscrewed the cap and stood there drinking 
in the light of the open refrigerator door. Then he just stood there holding the jar with the 
water beading cold on the glass, looking out the window and down the highway toward the 
lights. He stood there for a long time.
 When he went back to the bedroom he got his shorts off the floor and put them on and went 
into the bathroom and shut the door. Then he went through into the second bedroom and 
pulled the case from under the bed and opened it.
 He sat in the floor with the case between his legs and delved down into the bills and dredged 
them up. The packets were twenty deep. He shoved them back down into the case and jostled 
the case on the floor to level the money. Times twelve. He could do the math in his head. Two 
point four million. All used bills. He sat looking at it. You have to take this seriously, he said. 
You cant treat it like luck.
 He closed the bag and redid the fasteners and shoved it under the bed and rose and stood 
looking out the window at the stars over the rocky escarpment to the north of the town. Dead 
quiet. Not even a dog. But it wasnt the money that he woke up about. Are you dead out there? 
he said. Hell no, you aint dead.
 She woke while he was getting dressed and turned in the bed to watch him.
 Llewelyn?
 Yeah.
 What are you doin?
 Gettin dressed.
 Where are you goin?
 Out.
 Where are you goin, baby?
Somethin I forgot to do. I
m fixin to go do somethin dumbern hell but I
s dead Llewelyn.
 Well I
re scarin the hell out of me, Llewelyn. Are you in some kind of 
trouble?
 No. Go to sleep.
 Go to sleep?
 I
re eye to eye on that cause I dont want to go neither. I
s cattle-gate. He had a good set of all-terrain tires on the truck and two spares in the 
bed but this was some hard country. He sat looking at the line he
d parked that morning onto what may have been an old wagonroad that bore 
eastward across Harkle
d scouted from the ridge earlier that day and 
he stopped again and got out to listen. When he came back to the truck he pried the plastic 
cover from the domelight and took the bulb out and put it in the ashtray. He sat with the 
flashlight and studied the map again. When next he stopped he just shut off the engine and sat 
with the window down. He sat there for a long time.
 He parked the truck a half mile above the upper end of the caldera and got the plastic jug of 
water out of the floor and put the flashlight in his hip pocket. Then he took the .45 off the seat 
and shut the door quietly with his thumb on the latchbutton and turned and set off toward the 
trucks.
 They were as he
d been shot 
through the head. No lobos. No leones. He shone the hooded light into the cargo space behind 
the seats. Everything gone. He switched off the light and stood. He walked out slowly to 
where the other bodies lay. The shotgun was gone. The moon was already a quarter ways up. 
All but day bright. He felt like something in a jar.
 He was half way back up the caldera to his truck when something made him stop. He 
crouched, holding the cocked pistol across his knee. He could see the truck in the moonlight 
at the top of the rise. He looked off to one side of it to see it the better. There was someone 
standing beside it. Then they were gone. There is no description of a fool, he said, that you 
fail to satisfy. Now you
d seen him or they hadnt. 
He waited. The truck went by. When it was gone he rose and began to clamber up the slope.
 Halfway up he stopped and stood sucking air and trying to listen. The lights were somewhere 
below him. He couldnt see them. He climbed on. After a while he could see the dark shapes of 
the vehicles down there. Then the truck came back up the caldera with the lights off.
 He lay flattened against the rocks. A spotlight went skittering over the lava and back again. 
The truck slowed. He could hear the engine idling. The slow lope of the cam. Big block 
engine. The spotlight swept over the rocks again. It
s lots of things 
you aint goin to see again.
 The spotlight came on again at the head of the caldera and moved across the ridge. Moss lay 
on his stomach watching. It came back again.
 If you knew there was somebody out here afoot that had two million dollars of your money, at 
what point would you quit lookin for em?
 That
s four oclock in the mornin. Do you know where your darlin boy is at?
 I
d gotten it. He wiped his 
eye with the heel of his hand and wiped his hand on his jeans. He took out his kerchief and 
pressed it to his head.
 You could head south to the river.
 Yeah. You could.
 Less open ground.
 Less aint none.
 He turned, still holding the handkerchief to his forehead. No cloud cover in sight.
 You need to be somewhere come daylight.
 Home in bed would be good.
 He studied the blue floodplain out there in the silence. A vast and breathless amphitheatre. 
Waiting. He
d have it again.
 He waited a long time. The truck didnt come back. He made his way south along the ridge. He 
stood and listened. Not a coyote, nothing.
 By the time he
d find when he got there. A sheer rock gorge. 
The first long panes of light were standing through a gap in the mountains to the east and 
fanning over the country before him. The truck was ablaze with lights, roof rack and bumper 
spots. The engine kept racing away into a howl where the wheels left the ground.
 They wont shoot you, he said. They cant afford to do that.
 The long crack of a rifle went caroming out over the pan. What he
d gone in. His socks were gone and he set out at a jog barefoot toward the standing 
cane. Round cups in the shelving rock where the ancients had ground their meal. When he 
looked back again the truck was gone. Two men were trotting along the high bluff silhouetted 
against the sky. He was almost to the cane when it rattled all about him and there was a heavy 
whump and then the echo of it from across the river.
 He was hit in the upper arm by a buckshot and it stung like a hornet. He put his hand over it 
and dove into the cane, the lead ball half buried in the back of his arm. His left leg kept 
wanting to give out beneath him and he was having trouble breathing.
 Deep in the brake he dropped to his knees and knelt there sucking air. He undid his belt and 
let the boots drop into the sand and reached down and got the .45 and laid it to one side and 
felt the back of his arm. The buckshot was gone. He unbuttoned his shirt and took it off and 
pulled his arm around to see the wound. It was just the shape of the buckshot, bleeding 
slightly, pieces of shirtfiber packed into it. The whole back of his arm was already becoming 
an ugly purple bruise. He wrung the water out of his shirt and put it on again and buttoned it 
and pulled on the boots and stood and buckled his belt. He picked up the pistol and took the 
clip out of it and ejected the round from the chamber and then shook the gun and blew 
through the barrel and reassembled it. He didnt know if it would fire or not but he thought it 
probably would.
 When he came out of the cane on the far side he stopped to look back but the cane was thirty 
feet high and he couldnt see anything. Downriver was a broad bench of land and a stand of 
cottonwoods. By the time he got there his feet were already beginning to blister from walking 
barefoot in the wet boots. His arm was swollen and throbbing but the bleeding seemed to have 
stopped and he walked out into the sun on a gravel bar and sat there and pulled off the boots 
and looked at the raw red sores on his heels. As soon as he sat down his leg began to hurt 
again.
 He unsnapped the small leather holster at his belt and got out his knife and then stood up and 
took off his shirt again. He cut off the sleeves at the elbow and sat and wrapped his feet in 
them and pulled on the boots. He put the knife back in the holster and fastened it and picked 
up the pistol and stood and listened. A redwing blackbird. Nothing.
 As he turned to go he heard the truck very faintly on the far side of the river. He looked for it 
but he couldnt see it. He thought that by now probably the two men had crossed the river and 
were somewhere behind him.
 He went on through the trees. The trunks silted up from the high water and the roots tangled 
among the rocks. He took off his boots again to try to cross the gravel without leaving any 
tracks and he climbed a long and rocky rincon toward the south rim of the river canyon 
carrying the boots and the wrappings and the pistol and keeping an eye on the terrain below. 
The sun was in the canyon and the rocks he
s some old boys on 
their way down there to see you who propose to lower your balls between the jaws of a six
inch machinist
m at or not. You might want to think about movin to China.
 He sat up and wrapped his feet and pulled the boots on and stood and started up the last 
stretch of canyon to the rim. Where he crested out the country lay dead flat, stretching away to 
the south and to the east. Red dirt and creosote. Mountains in the far and middle distance. 
Nothing out there. Heatshimmer. He stuck the pistol in his belt and looked down at the river 
one more time and then set out east. Langtry Texas was thirty miles as the crow flies. Maybe 
less. Ten hours. Twelve. His feet were already hurting. His leg hurt. His chest. His arm. The 
river dropped away behind him. He hadnt even taken a drink.
 II
 I DONT KNOW if law enforcement work is more dangerous now than what it used to be or 
not. I know when I first took office you
d go to break it 
up and they
d better not lose, neither. You dont see that so much no more, 
but maybe you see worse. I had a man pull a gun on me one time and it happened that I 
grabbed it just as he went to fire and the plunger on the hammer went right through the fleshy 
part of my thumb. You can see the mark of it there. But that man had ever intention of killin 
me. A few years ago and it wasnt that many neither I was goin out one of these little two lane 
blacktop roads of a night and I come up on a pickup truck that they was two old boys settin in 
the bed of it. They kindly blinked in the lights and I backed off some but the truck had 
Coahuila plates on it and I thought, well, I need to stop these old boys and take a look. So I 
hit the lights and whenever I done that I seen the slider window in the back of the cab open 
and here come somebody passin a shotgun out the window to the old boy settin in the bed of 
the truck. I
d come to a stop 
and I laid there in the seat, had my pistol out, and I heard that pickup leave out and I raised 
up and fired several shots at the taillights but they was long gone.
 Point bein you dont know what all you
re liable to find. I set there 
in that cruiser for a long time. The motor had died but the lights was still on. Cab full of glass 
and dirt. I got out and kindly shook myself off and got back in and just set there. Just kindly 
collectin my thoughts. Windshield wipers hangin in on the dashboard. I turned off the lights 
and I just set there. You take somebody that will actually throw down on a law enforcement 
officer and open fire, you have got some very serious people. I never saw that truck again. 
Nobody else did neither. Or not them plates noways. Maybe I should of took out after it. Or 
tried to. I dont know. I drove back to Sanderson and pulled in at the cafe and I
ll tell you.
 I read the papers ever mornin. Mostly I suppose just to try and figure out what might be 
headed this way. Not that I
 Them two had never laid eyes on one another. There cant 
be that many of em. I dont think. Well, we dont know. Here the other day they was a woman 
put her baby in a trash compactor. Who would think of such a thing? My wife wont read the 
papers no more. She
m here.
 The phone rang. He reached and picked it up. Sheriff Bell, he said.
 He listened. He nodded.
 Mrs Downie I believe he
ll come down directly if 
you
s money, he said. You have enough money you 
dont have to talk to people about cats in trees.
 Well. Maybe you do.
 The radio squawked. He picked up the receiver and pushed the button and put his feet up on 
the desk. Bell, he said.
 He sat listening. He lowered his feet to the floor and sat up.
 Get the keys and look in the turtle. That
m right here.
He drummed his fingers on the desk.
 All right. Keep your lights on. I
s take a look.
 Torbert opened the trunk and they stood looking at the body. The front of the man
s shirtpocket and unfolded it. It was a bloodstained 
receipt for gas from a service station in Junction Texas. Well, he said. This was the end of the 
road for Bill Wyrick.
 I didnt look to see if he had a billfold on him.
 That
s forehead. Looks like a .45. Clean. Almost like a wadcutter.
 What
s a target round. You got the keys?
 Yessir.
 Bell shut the trunklid. He looked around. Passing trucks on the interstate were downshifting 
as they approached. I
re lookin for you first thing in the mornin. I aint loadin 
him into one of our units and he damn sure dont need a helicopter. You take Lamar
re in the unit.
 Well let
ll see you in two days
m ready. He looked at Torbert. You get stopped 
with that old boy in the turtle just tell em you dont know nothin about it. Tell em somebody 
must of put him in there while you was havin coffee.
 Torbert nodded. You and the sheriff goin to come down and get me off of death row?
 If we cant get you out we
re right. I might be one myself some day.
 Driving out 90 toward the turnoff at Dryden he came across a hawk dead in the road. He saw 
the feathers move in the wind. He pulled over and got out and walked back and squatted on 
his bootheels and looked at it. He raised one wing and let it fall again. Cold yellow eye dead 
to the blue vault above them.
It was a big redtail. He picked it up by one wingtip and carried it to the bar ditch and laid it in 
the grass. They would hunt the blacktop, sitting on the high powerpoles and watching the 
highway in both directions for miles. Any small thing that might venture to cross. Closing on 
their prey against the sun. Shadowless. Lost in the concentration of the hunter. He wouldnt 
have the trucks running over it.
 He stood there looking out across the desert. So quiet. Low hum of wind in the wires. High 
bloodweeds along the road. Wiregrass and sacahuista. Beyond in the stone arroyos the tracks 
of dragons. The raw rock mountains shadowed in the late sun and to the east the shimmering 
abscissa of the desert plains under a sky where raincurtains hung dark as soot all along the 
quadrant. That god lives in silence who has scoured the following land with salt and ash. He 
walked back to the cruiser and got in and pulled away.
 When he pulled up in front of the sheriff
s happened, Sheriff?
 I dont know, said Bell. I just got here.
 He ducked under the tape and went up the steps. Lamar looked up when he tapped at the door. 
Come in, Ed Tom, he said. Come in. We got hell to pay here.
 They walked out on the courthouse lawn. Some of the men followed them.
 You all go on, said Lamar. Me and the sheriff here need to talk.
 He looked haggard. He looked at Bell and he looked at the ground. He shook his head and 
looked away. I used to play mumbledypeg here when I was a boy. Right here. These 
youngsters today I dont think would even know what that was. Ed Tom this is a damned 
lunatic.
 I hear you.
 You got anything to go on?
 Not really.
 Lamar looked away. He wiped his eyes with the back of his sleeve. I
m goin to quit, Ed Tom.
 You want me to go out there with you?
 No. I appreciate it. I need to go.
 All right.
 I just have this feelin we
re goin to need all of you we can get.
 WHEN THEY PULLED up in front of the cafe it was one-twenty in the morning. There were 
only three people on the bus.
 Sanderson, the driver said.
 Moss made his way forward. He
s your truck at?
 I need to take a shower. Fix me somethin to eat. My stomach thinks my throat
s that on the back of your arm?
How many eggs is this?
 Four.
 You got any more toast?
 They
s broke out in a rash.
 She buttered the fresh toast and put it on the plate and sat in the chair opposite. I like to eat 
breakfast of a night, he said. Takes me back to my bachelor days.
 What is goin on, Llewelyn?
 Here
s goin on, Carla Jean. You need to get your stuff packed and be ready to roll out 
of here come daylight. Whatever you leave you aint goin to see it again so if you want it dont 
leave it. There
s correct.
 You aint kiddin, are you?
 Me? No. I aint kiddin a bit. Are we out of preserves?
 She got up and got the preserves out of the refrigerator and set them on the table and sat back 
down. He unscrewed the jar and ladled some onto his toast and spread it with his knife.
 What
s what
s it at?
 Under the bed in the back room.
 Under the bed.
 Yes mam.
 Can I go back there and look?
 You
m home.
 Where
s forever.
 How are we supposed to get down there in the mornin?
 Call Miss Rosa over yonder. She aint got nothin to do.
 What have you done, Llewelyn?
 I robbed the bank at Fort Stockton.
 You
d you ask me for? You need to get on back there and get 
your stuff together. We got about four hours till daylight.
 Let me see that thing on your arm.
 You done seen it.
 Let me put somethin on it.
 Yeah, I think there
m tryin to eat.
Did you get shot?
 No. I just said that to get you stirred up. Go on now.
 HE CROSSED THE Pecos River just north of Sheffield Texas and took route 349 south. 
When he pulled into the filling station at Sheffield it was almost dark. A long red twilight 
with doves crossing the highway heading south toward some ranch tanks. He got change from 
the proprietor and made a phone call and filled the tank and went back in and paid.
 You all gettin any rain up your way? the proprietor said.
 Which way would that be?
 I seen you was from Dallas.
 Chigurh picked his change up off the counter. And what business is it of yours where I
re asking me? Is there something wrong with anything?
 The man turned away and put his fist to his mouth and coughed again. He looked at Chigurh 
and he looked away. He looked out the window at the front of the store. The gas pumps and 
the car sitting there. Chigurh ate another small handful of the cashews.
 Will there be anything else?
 You
re talking about, do you?
 Sir?
 I said you dont know what you
m talkin about closin. That
m talkin about.
 What time do you go to bed.
 Sir?
 You
d say around nine-thirty. Somewhere around nine-thirty.
 Chigurh poured more cashews into his palm. I could come back then, he said.
 We
s all right.
 Well why would you be comin back? We
ve lived here all your life?
 The proprietor took a while to answer. This was my wife
s place, he said. Originally.
 You married into it.
 We lived in Temple Texas for many years. Raised a family there. In Temple. We come out 
here about four years ago.
 You married into it.
 If that
s the way it is.
 Well I need to close now.
 Chigurh poured the last of the cashews into his palm and wadded the little bag and placed it 
on the counter. He stood oddly erect, chewing.
 You seem to have a lot of questions, the proprietor said. For somebody that dont want to say 
where it is they
s the most you ever saw lost on a coin toss?
 Sir?
 I said what
s usually more like just to settle 
somethin.
 What
re callin here.
 How would that change anything?
 The man looked at Chigurh
ve been putting it up your whole life. You just didnt know it. You know 
what the date is on this coin?
 No.
 It
s been traveling twenty-two years to get here. And now it
m here. And I
s either heads or tails. And you have to 
say. Call it.
 I dont know what it is I stand to win.
 In the blue light the man
s your lucky coin.
 I dont need it.
 Yes you do. Take it.
 The man took the coin. I got to close now, he said.
 Dont put it in your pocket.
 Sir?
 Dont put it in your pocket.
 Where do you want me to put it?
 Dont put it in your pocket. You wont know which one it is.
 All right.
 Anything can be an instrument, Chigurh said. Small things. Things you wouldnt even notice. 
They pass from hand to hand. People dont pay attention. And then one day there
s just a coin. For instance. 
Nothing special there. What could that be an instrument of? You see the problem. To separate 
the act from the thing. As if the parts of some moment in history might be interchangeable 
with the parts of some other moment. How could that be? Well, it
s 
true. Is it?
 Chigurh cupped his hand and scooped his change from the counter into his palm and put the 
change in his pocket and turned and walked out the door. The proprietor watched him go. 
Watched him get into the car. The car started and pulled off from the gravel apron onto the 
highway south. The lights never did come on. He laid the coin on the counter and looked at it. 
He put both hands on the counter and just stood leaning there with his head bowed.
 When he got to Dryden it was about eight oclock. He sat at the intersection in front of 
Condra
s marks but 
there were no numbers, just the chevrons. He marked the mileage on the odometer and drove 
another mile and slowed and turned off the highway. He shut off the lights and left the motor 
running and got out and walked down and opened the gate and came back. He drove across 
the bars of the cattleguard and got out and closed the gate again and stood there listening. 
Then he got in the car and drove out down the rutted track.
He followed a southrunning fence, the Ford wallowing over the bad ground. The fence was 
just an old remnant, three wires strung on mesquite posts. In a mile or so he came out on a 
gravel plain where a Dodge Ramcharger was parked facing toward him. He pulled slowly 
alongside it and shut down the engine.
 The Ramcharger
s go, he said.
 Have you talked to him? the driver said.
 No.
 He dont know what
s go.
 They rolled out across the desert in the dark.
 When do you aim to tell him? the driver said.
 When I know what it is that I
s truck Chigurh leaned forward to study it.
 Is that his truck?
 That
s go, he said.
 They parked some distance from the trucks and walked down to look at them. Chigurh stood 
there a long time. It was cold out on the barrial and he had no jacket but he didnt seem to 
notice. The other two men stood waiting. He had a flashlight in his hand and he turned it on
 and walked among the trucks and looked at the bodies. The two men followed at a small 
distance.
 Whose dog? Chigurh said.
We dont know.
 He stood looking in at the dead man slumped across the console of the Bronco. He shone the 
light into the cargo space behind the seats.
 Where
s in the truck. You want it?
 Can you get anything on it?
 No.
 Nothing?
 Not a bleep.
 Chigurh studied the dead man. He jostled him with his flashlight.
 These are some ripe petunias, one of the men said.
 Chigurh didnt answer. He backed out of the truck and stood looking over the bajada in the 
moonlight. Dead quiet. The man in the Bronco had not been dead three days or anything like 
it. He pulled the pistol from the waistband of his trousers and turned around to where the two 
men were standing and shot them once each through the head in rapid succession and put the 
gun back in his belt. The second man had actually half turned to look at the first as he fell. 
Chigurh stepped between them and bent and pulled away the shoulder-strap from the second 
man and swung up the nine millimeter Glock he
d even 
want to. We used to have them old Motorola two way radios. We
ll tell my deputies 
sometimes to just follow the breadcrumbs. I still like the old Colts. .44-40. If that wont stop 
him you
s got a hammer. I dont like havin to hunt the safety on a gun. Of course some 
things is worse. That cruiser of mine is seven years old. It
d stick with what I had. That aint always a good policy. But it aint always a bad one 
neither.
 This other thing I dont know. People will ask me about it ever so often. I cant say as I would 
rule it out altogether. It aint somethin I would like to have to see again. To witness. The ones 
that really ought to be on death row will never make it. I believe that. You remember certain 
things about a thing like that. People didnt know what to wear. There was one or two come 
dressed in black, which I suppose was all right. Some of the men come just in their 
shirtsleeves and that kindly bothered me. I aint sure I could tell you why.
 Still they seemed to know what to do and that surprised me. Most of em I know had never 
been to a execution before. When it was over they pulled this curtain around the gas-chamber 
with him in there settin slumped over and people just got up and filed out. Like out of church 
or somethin. It just seemed peculiar. Well it was peculiar. I
d be surprised. 
Some of em I think had at one time. You see somebody ever day sometimes for years and then 
one day you walk that man down the hallway and put him to death. Well. That
d ordered this dessert, ever what it was. And it come time to go and Pickett he 
asked him didnt he want his dessert and the old boy told him he was savin it for when he come 
back. I dont know what to say about that. Pickett didnt neither.
 I never had to kill nobody and I am very glad of that fact. Some of the old time sheriffs 
wouldnt even carry a firearm. A lot of folks find that hard to believe but it
s the younger Jim. Gaston Boykins wouldnt wear one. 
Up in Comanche County. I always liked to hear about the old timers. Never missed a chance 
to do so. The old time concern that the sheriffs had for their people is been watered down 
some. You cant help but feel it. Nigger Hoskins over in Bastrop County knowed everbody
s a odd thing when you come to think about it. The opportunities for abuse are just about 
everwhere. There
s peculiar or not. Because I 
say that it is. Does it work? Yes. Ninety percent of the time. It takes very little to govern good 
people. Very little. And bad people cant be governed at all. Or if they could I never heard of 
it.
 THE BUS PULLED INTO Fort Stockton at quarter to nine and Moss stood and got his bag 
down from the overhead rack and picked up the document case out of the seat and stood 
looking down at her.
 Dont get on a airplane with that thing, she said. They
ll call you in a few days.
All right.
 You take care.
 I got a bad feelin, Llewelyn.
 Well, I got a good one. So they ought to balance out.
 I hope so.
 I cant call you except from a payphone.
 I know it. Call me.
 I will. Quit worryin about everthing.
 Llewelyn?
 What.
 Nothin.
 What is it.
 Nothin. I just wanted to say it. You take care. Llewelyn? What.
 Dont hurt nobody. You hear?
 He stood there with the bag slung across his shoulder. I aint makin no promises, he said. 
That
d started to push her chair back but he wiped his mouth with his napkin 
and rose. I
re eatin? We never eat this late.
 Dont be cussin, she said.
 He picked up the phone. Sheriff Bell, he said.
 He listened for a while. Then he said: I
ll meet you there in 
about forty minutes. Just leave the lights on on your unit.
He hung up the phone and came back to his chair and sat and picked up the napkin and put it 
in his lap and picked up his fork. Somebody called in a car afire, he said. Just this side of 
Lozier Canyon.
 What do you make of that?
 He shook his head.
 He ate. He drank the last of his coffee. Come go with me, he said.
 Let me get my coat.
 They pulled off the road at the gate and drove over the cattleguard and pulled up behind 
Wendell
s about a half mile down, Wendell said. Just follow me.
 I can see it.
 Yessir. It was goin real good here about a hour ago. The people that called it in seen it from 
the road.
 They parked a little way off and got out and stood looking at it. You could feel the heat on 
your face. Bell came around and opened the door and took his wife
77 Ford, Wendell?
 It could be.
 I
d guess it was about the farthest thing from his mind.
 In the morning when he got to the office the phone was ringing. Torbert wasnt back yet. He 
finally called at nine-thirty and Bell sent Wendell to get him. Then he sat with his feet on the 
desk staring at his boots. He sat that way for some time. Then he picked up the mobile and 
called Wendell.
 Where you at?
 Just past Sanderson Canyon.
 Turn around and come back.
 All right. What about Torbert?
 Call him and tell him to just set tight. I
s and load and I
s horse. You ride Winston, he said.
 You sure?
Oh I
s horse I can tell you right now you damn 
sure dont want to be the party that was aboard him.
 He handed Wendell one of the lever action rifles he
ve drove all through their tracks but you can still see what it was, 
Bell said. Big offroad tires.
 When they got to the car it was just a blackened hulk.
 You were right about the plates, Wendell said.
 I lied about the tires though.
 How
d still be burnin.
 The car sat in what looked like four puddles of tar, the wheels wrapped in blackened skeins of 
wire. They rode on. Bell pointed at the ground from time to time. You can tell the day tracks 
from the night ones, he said. They were drivin out here with no lights. See there how crooked 
the track is? Like you can just see far enough ahead to duck the brush in front of you. Or you 
might leave some paint on a rock like that right yonder.
 In a sandwash he got down and walked up and back and then looked away toward the south. 
It
re a goin. They
d say.
 Wendell sat his horse, his hands crossed on the big roping pommel. He leaned and spat. He
 looked off to the south with the sheriff. What do you reckon it is we
m much lookin 
forward to it.
 When they reached Moss
s pried the inspection plate off the door, he said.
 The numbers is on the frame.
 Yeah. I dont think that
s name is Moss.
 Yep.
 Bell rode back around the rear of the truck and turned the horse to the south and looked at 
Wendell. You know where he lives at?
 No sir.
 He
d be a curious thing if he was missin 
two or three days and nobody said nothin about it.
 Pretty curious.
 Bell looked down toward the caldera. I think we got some real mischief here.
 I hear you, Sheriff.
 You think this boy
s go down here and look at the rest of this mess.
 They rode down into the caldera carrying the Winchesters upright before them in the 
saddlebow. I hope this boy aint dead down here, Bell said. He seemed a decent enough boy 
the time or two I seen him. Pretty wife too.
 They rode past the bodies on the ground and stopped and got down and dropped the reins. The 
horses stepped nervously.
 Let
d taken from the bodies. He looked 
toward the trucks.
 These two aint been dead all that long, he said.
 Where they from?
 Dallas.
He handed Wendell a pistol he
d say. Old boy never even 
got the safety off that pistol. Both of em shot between the eyes.
 The othern didnt have a gun?
 Killer could of took it. Or he might not of had one.
 Bad way to go to a gunfight.
 Bad way.
 They walked among the trucks. These sumbitches are bloody as hogs, Wendell said.
 Bell glanced at him.
 Yeah, Wendell said. I guess you ought to be careful about cussin the dead.
 I would say at the least there probably aint no luck in it.
 It
re sayin.
 I
ll have to sleep on that.
 The sheriff tilted forward the Bronco seat and looked in the rear. He wet his finger and 
pressed it to the carpet and held his finger to the light. That
s some more here 
on the ground. Could be that somebody cut into one of the packages. See what was inside.
 Could of been checkin the quality. Gettin ready to trade.
 They didnt trade. They shot each other.
 Bell nodded.
 There might not of even been no money.
 That
s been shot between the eyes too.
 Yep.
 They walked around the truck. Bell pointed.
 That
d say it has. So where do you reckon the driver got to?
 It
s.
 He dropped the shells back into the floor and stepped back and picked up his rifle from where 
he
s unloaded on this thing with a shotgun by the 
look of it.
 You think them holes are big enough?
 I dont think they
s a pretty good way to go.
 Wendell looked over the caldera. Well, he said. Somebody
d say they have.
 How come do you reckon the coyotes aint been at them?
 Bell shook his head. I dont know, he said. Supposedly they wont eat a Mexican.
 Them over yonder aint Mexican.
 Well, that
ll tell you what, he said.
 Tell me.
 It dont much stand to reason that the last man never even got hit.
 I would agree with that.
 Why dont we get the horses and just ride up here a ways and look around. Maybe cut for sign 
a little.
 We can do that.
 Can you tell me what they wanted with a dog out here?
 I got no idea.
 When they found the dead man in the rocks a mile to the northeast Bell just sat his wife
s died of natural causes.
 Natural causes?
 Natural to the line of work he
s been here before us.
 I
d say there
s a mess, aint it Sheriff?
 If it aint it
s truck.
 So where do you think this good old boy is at? Wendell said.
 I do not know.
 I would take it his whereabouts is pretty high on your worklist.
 The sheriff nodded. Pretty high, he said.
 They drove back to town and the sheriff sent Wendell on to the house with the truck and the 
horses.
 You be sure and rap on the kitchen door and thank Loretta.
 I will. I got to give her the keys anyways.
 The county dont pay her to use her horse.
 I hear you.
 He called Torbert on the mobile phone. I
s office the police tape was still strung across the 
courthouse lawn. Torbert was sitting on the steps. He got up and walked out to the car.
 You all right? Bell said.
 Yessir.
 Where
s out on a call.
 They drove out toward the highway. Bell told the deputy about the caldera. Torbert listened in 
silence. He rode looking out the window. After a while he said: I got the report from Austin.
 What do they say.
Not much of anything.
 What was he shot with?
 They dont know.
 They dont know?
 No sir.
 How can they not know? There wasnt no exit wound.
 Yessir. They freely admitted that.
 Freely admitted?
 Yessir.
 Well what the hell did they say, Torbert?
 They said that he had what looked to be a large caliber bullet wound in the forehead and that 
said wound had penetrated to a distance of approximately two and a half inches through the 
skull and into the frontal lobe of the brain but that there was not no bullet to be found.
 Said wound.
 Yessir.
 Bell pulled out onto the interstate. He drummed his fingers on the steering wheel. He looked 
at his deputy.
 What you
re sendin the report FedEx. X-rays and everthing. They said 
you
ve always had to deal with. Same ones 
my grandaddy had to deal with. Back then they was rustlin cattle. Now they
s true no more. I
ve seen these people 
before. Their kind. I dont know what to do about em even. If you killed em all they
s trailer 
and shut off the engine. He got out and walked across the raw dirt yard and climbed the steps 
and tapped at the aluminum door. He waited. Then he tapped again. He turned and stood with 
his back to the trailer and studied the little park. Nothing moved. Not a dog. He turned and put 
his wrist to the doorlock and shot out the lock cylinder with the cobalt steel plunger of the 
cattlegun and opened the door and went in and shut the door behind him.
 He stood, the deputy
m looking for Llewelyn Moss.
 She studied him. Did you go up to his trailer?
 Yes I did.
 Well I
s at work. Did you want to leave a message?
 Where does he work?
 Sir I aint at liberty to give out no information about our residents.
Chigurh looked around at the little plywood office. He looked at the woman.
 Where does he work.
 Sir?
 I said where does he work.
 Did you not hear me? We cant give out no information.
 A toilet flushed somewhere. A doorlatch clicked. Chigurh looked at the woman again. Then 
he went out and got in the Ramcharger and left.
 He pulled in at the cafe and took the envelopes out of his shirtpocket and unfolded them and 
opened them and read the letters inside. He opened the phone bill and looked at the charges. 
There were calls to Del Rio and to Odessa.
 He went in and got some change and went to the payphone and dialed the Del Rio number but 
there was no answer. He called the Odessa number and a woman answered and he asked for 
Llewelyn. The woman said he wasnt there.
 I tried to reach him in Sanderson but I dont believe he
s at. Who is this?
 Chigurh hung up the phone and went over to the counter and sat down and ordered a cup of 
coffee. Has Llewelyn been in? he said.
 When he pulled up in front of the garage there were two men sitting with their backs to the 
wall of the building eating their lunches. He went in. There was a man at the desk drinking 
coffee and listening to the radio. Yessir, he said.
 I was looking for Llewelyn.
 He aint here.
 What time do you expect him?
 I dont know. He aint called in or nothin so your guess is as good as mine. He leaned his head 
slightly. As if he
s not no discounts on the weekly rate.
 Well let
s here.
They drove slowly past his room. There was a gap in the curtains he was pretty sure he hadnt 
left there. Hard to tell. Not that hard. The cab tolled slowly past. No cars in the lot that hadnt 
been there. Keep going, he said.
 The driver looked at him in the mirror.
 Keep going, said Moss. Dont stop.
 I dont want to get in some kind of a jackpot here, buddy.
 Just keep going.
 Why dont I let you out here and we wont argue about it.
 I want you to take me to another motel.
 Let
re already in a 
jackpot, he said. I
d still have to special order 
poles for it. You need to get the manufacturer and the model number.
 You sell tents, right?
 We got three different models.
 Which one has got the most poles in it?
 Well, I guess that would be our ten foot walltent. You can stand up in it. Well, some people 
could stand up in it. It
s all there, the clerk said.
 What do I owe you.
 It
re throwin dirt you
s what 
we done. She
s sayin a whole lot. She
re lucky 
they
s Mercantile and cross the street 
and she passed me and I tipped my hat to her and got just almost a smile back, that was the 
luckiest.
 People complain about the bad things that happen to em that they dont deserve but they 
seldom mention the good. About what they done to deserve them things. I dont recall that I 
ever give the good Lord all that much cause to smile on me. But he did.
 WHEN BELL WALKED INTO the cafe on Tuesday morning it was just daylight. He got his 
paper and went to his table in the corner. The men he passed at the big table nodded to him 
and said Sheriff. The waitress brought him his coffee and went back to the kitchen and 
ordered his eggs. He sat stirring the coffee with his spoon although there was nothing to stir 
since he drank it black. The Haskins boy
d be remembered for.
 She came with his eggs and he folded the paper and laid it by.
He took Wendell with him and they drove down to the Desert Aire and stood at the door 
while Wendell knocked.
 Look at the lock, Bell said.
 Wendell drew his pistol and opened the door. Sheriff
s right. No reason in the world.
 They walked in and stood. Wendell would have holstered his pistol but Bell stopped him. 
Let
s that? said Wendell.
 Cylinder out of the lock.
 Bell passed his hand over the plywood of the room-divider. Here
ve done lit a shuck.
 I do too.
 Kindly in a hurry about it, too.
 Yep.
 He walked into the kitchen and opened the refrigerator and looked in and shut it again. He 
looked in the freezer.
 So when was he here, Sheriff?
 Hard to say. We might of just missed him.
You think this boy has got any notion of the sorts of sons of bitches that are huntin him?
 I dont know. He ought to. He seen the same things I seen and it made a impression on me.
 They
d never seen before was standing there. He introduced himself as a reporter for the San 
Antonio Light. What
re pulling my leg.
 Let me ask you somethin.
 All right.
 Last year nineteen felony charges were filed in the Terrell County Court. How many of those 
would you say were not drug related?
 I dont know.
 Two. In the meantime I got a county the size of Delaware that is full of people who need my 
help. What do you think about that?
 I dont know.
 I dont either. Now I just need to eat my breakfast here. I got kindly a full day ahead.
 He and Torbert drove out in Torbert
d left it. They 
parked a ways from Moss
s ten, Torbert said.
 What?
It
s ten.
 Bell nodded. That we know about, he said.
 Yessir. That we know about.
 The helicopter arrived and circled and set down in a whirl of dust out on the bajada. Nobody 
got out. They were waiting for the dust to blow away. Bell and Torbert watched the rotor 
winding down.
 The DEA agent
s a 
m happy to know that, he said. White in color.
 I
s truck. The agent looked at Bell and he tapped the clipboard 
against his leg. You dont intend to make this easy, do you?
 Hell, McIntyre. I
ve been dead?
 Four or five days.
 Somebody must have got away.
 Bell nodded. There
s heroin spilled in the back of that Bronco.
 Yep.
 Mexican black tar.
 Bell looked at Torbert. Torbert leaned and spat.
 If the heroin is missing and the money is missing then my guess is that somebody is missing.
 I
s a reasonable guess.
 McIntyre continued writing. Dont worry, he said. I know you didnt get it.
 I aint worried.
 McIntyre adjusted his hat and stood looking at the trucks. Are the rangers coming out here?
 Rangers are comin. Or one is. DPS drug unit.
I
s, .45
s not coming. What about the Border Patrol?
 Everbody
65.
 Yeah.
 What we need is to get these bodies out of here.
 McIntyre tapped the clipboard against his leg. Aint that the truth, he said.
 Nine millimeter parabellum, said Torbert.
 Bell nodded. You need to put that in your files.
 Chigurh picked up the signal from the transponder coming across the high span of the Devil
ve got?
 I want to keep the one I got and get another one.
 All right.
 Have you got a map of the motel?
 She looked under the counter. There used to be a sort of a one. Wait a minute. I think this is it.
 She laid an old brochure on the counter. It showed a car from the fifties parked in front. He 
unfolded it and flattened it out and studied it.
 What about one forty-two?
 You can have one next to yours if you want it. One-twenty aint took.
 That
ll owe for two nights, she said.
 He paid and picked up the bag and walked out and turned down the walkway at the rear of the 
motel. She leaned over the counter watching him go.
 In the room he sat on the bed with the map spread out. He got up and went into the bathroom 
and stood in the tub with his ear to the wall. A TV was playing somewhere. He went back and 
sat and unzipped the bag and took out the shotgun and laid it to one side and then emptied the 
bag out onto the bed.
 He took the screwdriver and got the chair from the desk and stood on it and unscrewed the 
airduct grille and stepped down and laid it dustside up on the cheap chenille bedspread. Then 
he climbed up and put his ear to the duct. He listened. He stood down and got the flashlight 
and climbed back up again.
 There was a junction in the ductwork about ten feet down the shaft and he could see the end 
of the bag sticking out. He turned off the light and stood listening. He tried listening with his 
eyes shut.
 He climbed down and got the shotgun and went to the door and turned off the light at the 
switch there and stood in the dark looking out through the curtain at the courtyard. Then he 
went back and laid the shotgun on the bed and turned on the flashlight.
 He untied the little nylon bag and slid the poles out. They were lightweight aluminum tubes 
three feet long and he assembled three of them and taped the joints with duct tape so that they 
wouldnt pull apart. He went to the closet and came back with three wire hangers and sat on 
the bed and cut the hooks off with the sidecutters and wrapped them into one hook with the 
tape. Then he taped them to the end of the pole and stood up and slid the pole down the 
ductwork.
He turned the flashlight off and pitched it onto the bed and went back to the window and 
looked out. Drone of a truck passing out on the highway. He waited till it was gone. A cat that 
was crossing the courtyard stopped. Then it went on again.
 He stood on the chair with the flashlight in his hand. He turned on the light and laid the lens 
up close against the galvanized metal wall of the duct so as to mute the beam and ran the hook 
down past the bag and turned it and brought it back. The hook caught and turned the bag 
slightly and then slipped free again. After a few tries he managed to get it caught in one of the 
straps and he towed it silently up the duct hand over hand through the dust until he could let 
go the pole and reach the bag.
 He climbed down and sat on the bed and wiped the dust from the case and unfastened the 
latch and the straps and opened it and looked at the packets of bills. He took one of them from 
the case and riffled it. Then he fitted it back and undid the length of cord he
d been asleep. Yessir, she said. Can I help you?
 He left the office with the key in his shirtpocket and got into the Ramcharger and drove 
around to the side of the building and parked and got out and walked down to the room 
carrying the bag with the receiver and the guns in it. In the room he dropped the bag onto the 
bed and pulled off his boots and came back out with the receiver and the battery pack and the 
shotgun from the truck. The shotgun was a twelve gauge Remington automatic with a plastic 
military stock and a parkerized finish. It was fitted with a shopmade silencer fully a foot long 
and big around as a beercan. He walked down the ramada in his sockfeet past the rooms 
listening to the signal.
 He came back to the room and stood in the open door under the dead white light from the 
parking lot lamp. He walked into the bathroom and turned the light on there. He took the 
measure of the room and looked to see where everything was. He measured where the 
lightswitches were. Then he stood in the room taking it all in once again. He sat and pulled on 
his boots and got the airtank and slung it across his shoulder and caught up the cattlegun 
where it swung from the rubber airhose and walked out and down to the room.
 He stood listening at the door. Then he punched out the lock cylinder with the airgun and 
kicked open the door.
A Mexican in a green guayabera had sat up on the bed and was reaching for a small 
machinegun beside him. Chigurh shot him three times so fast it sounded like one long gunshot 
and left most of the upper part of him spread across the headboard and the wall behind it. The 
shotgun made a strange deep chugging sound. Like someone coughing into a barrel. He 
snapped on the light and stepped out of the doorway and stood with his back to the outside 
wall. He looked in again quickly. The bathroom door had been shut. Now it was open. He 
stepped into the room and fired two loads through the standing door and another through the 
wall and stepped out again. Down toward the end of the building a light had come on. 
Chigurh waited. Then he looked into the room once more. The door was blown into shredded 
plywood hanging off the hinges and a thin stream of blood had started across the pink 
bathroom tiles.
 He stepped into the doorway and fired two more rounds through the bathroom wall and then 
walked in with the shotgun leveled at his waist. The man was lying slumped against the tub 
holding an AK-47. He was shot in the chest and the neck and he was bleeding heavily. No me 
mate, he wheezed. No me mate. Chigurh stepped back to avoid the spray of ceramic chips off 
the tub and shot him in the face.
 He walked out and stood on the sidewalk. No one there. He went back in and searched the 
room. He looked in the closet and he looked under the bed and he pulled all the drawers out 
into the floor. He looked in the bathroom. Moss
d got blood and 
matter on his shirt from off the wall and he took the shirt off and went back into the bathroom 
and washed himself and dried with one of the bath-towels. Then he wet the towel and wiped 
off his boots and folded the towel again and wiped down the legs of his jeans. He picked up 
the shotgun and came back into the room naked to the waist, the shirt balled in one hand. He 
wiped his bootsoles on the carpet again and looked around the room a last time and left.
 When Bell walked into the office Torbert looked up from his desk and then rose and came 
over and laid a paper down in front of him.
 Is this it? Bell said.
 Yessir.
 Bell leaned back in his chair to read, tapping his lower lip slowly with his forefinger. After a 
while he put the report down. He didnt look at Torbert. I know what
d know it if you had.
 I think I went once when I was a kid.
 Funny place to take a kid.
 I think I went my own self. Snuck in.
 How did they kill the beef?
 They had a knocker straddled the chute and they
d knock em in the head with a maul. He done that all day.
 That sounds about right. They dont do it thataway no more. They use a airpowered gun that 
shoots a steel bolt out of it. Just shoots it out about so far. They put that thing between the 
beef
s that quick.
 Torbert was standing at the corner of Bell
d say fore you said it.
 Moss pulled into Eagle Pass at a quarter till two in the morning. He
s that right there.
 That
s the Hotel Eagle.
Drop me there.
 He paid the driver the fifty dollars they
d 
been expecting him.
 He paid and put the key in his pocket and climbed the stairs and walked down the old hotel 
corridor. Dead quiet. No lights in the transoms. He found the room and put the key in the door 
and opened it and went in and shut the door behind him. Light from the streetlamps coming 
through the lace curtains at the window. He set the bags on the bed and went back to the door 
and switched on the overhead light. Old fashioned pushbutton switchplate. Oak furniture from 
the turn of the century. Brown walls. Same chenille bedspread.
 He sat on the bed thinking things over. He got up and looked out the window at the parking 
lot and he went into the bathroom and got a glass of water and came back and sat on the bed 
again. He took a sip and set the water on the glass top of the wooden bedside table. There is 
no goddamn way, he said.
 He undid the brass latch and the buckles on the case and began to take the packets of money 
out and to stack them on the bed. When the case was empty he checked it for a false bottom 
and he checked the back and sides and then he set it aside and began to go through the stacks 
of bills, riffling each of the packets and stacking them back in the case. He
d checked him in was gone and in his place was 
another clerk, thin and gray. A thin white shirt and a black bow tie. He was smoking a 
cigarette and reading Ring magazine and he looked up at Moss with no great enthusiasm, 
squinting in the smoke. Yessir, he said.
 Did you just come on?
Yessir. Be here till ten in the mornin.
 Moss laid a hundred dollar bill on the counter. The clerk put down the magazine.
 I aint askin you to do nothin illegal, Moss said.
 I
s somebody lookin for me. All I
d pushed it 
under the bed and set it in the chair in the corner. He went over and switched on the light at 
the bedside table and stood there trying to think. He realized that the phone might ring and he 
took the receiver from the cradle and laid it on the table. He pulled back the covers and 
rumpled the pillows on the bed. He looked at the clock. Four forty-three. He looked at the 
phone lying there on the table. He picked it up and pulled the cord out of it and put it back in 
the cradle. Then he went over and stood at the door, his thumb on the hammer of the shotgun. 
He dropped to his stomach and put his ear to the space under the door. A cool wind. As if a 
door had opened somewhere. What have you done. What have you failed to do.
 He went to the far side of the bed and dropped down and pushed himself underneath it and lay 
there on his stomach with the shotgun pointed at the door. Just space enough beneath the 
wooden slats. Heart pumping against the dusty carpet. He waited. Two columns of dark 
intersected the bar of light beneath the door and stood there. The next thing he heard was the 
key in the lock. Very softly. Then the door opened. He could see out into the hallway. There 
was no one there. He waited. He tried not even to blink but he did. Then there was an 
expensive pair of ostrichskin boots standing in the doorway. Pressed jeans. The man stood 
there. Then he came in. Then he crossed slowly to the bathroom.
 At that moment Moss realized that he was not going to open the bathroom door. He was going 
to turn around. And when he did it would be too late. Too late to make any more mistakes or 
to do anything at all and that he was going to die. Do it, he said. Just do it.
 Dont turn around, he said. You turn around and I
s waist and he didnt know what kind of gun he was carrying. Drop 
the gun, he said. Do it now.
 A shotgun clattered to the floor. Moss pulled himself up. Get your hands up, he said. Step 
back from the door.
 He took two steps back and stood, his hands at shoulder level. Moss came around the end of 
the bed. The man was no more than ten feet away. The whole room was pulsing slowly. There 
was an odd smell in the air. Like some foreign cologne. A medicinal edge to it. Everything 
humming. Moss held the shotgun at his waist with the hammer cocked. There was nothing 
that could happen that would have surprised him. He felt as if he weighed nothing. He felt as 
if he were floating. The man didnt even look at him. He seemed oddly untroubled. As if this 
were all part of his day.
 Back up. Some more.
 He did. Moss picked up the man
s experience.
 What do you want?
 He didnt answer.
 Moss crossed the room and took hold of the footpost of the bed and swung the bed sideways 
with one hand. The document case stood there in the dust. He picked it up. The man didnt 
even seem to notice. His thoughts seemed elsewhere.
 He took the nylon bag from the chair and slung it over his shoulder and he got the shotgun 
with its huge canlike silencer off the bed and put it under his arm and picked up the case 
again. Let
d already taken more chances than he had 
coming. He backed down the hallway with his shotgun trained on the man
s hands were. The bedroom door was 
still open, the shower still running.
 You show your face at the head of these stairs and I
s feet were sticking out from behind the desk. Moss didnt stop. He 
pushed out through the front door and down the steps. By the time he
s shotgun lying in the street. Damn, he said. What a shot.
 He loped wincing down the sidewalk past the Aztec Theatre. As he passed the little round 
ticket kiosk all the glass fell out of it. He never even heard that shot. He spun with the shotgun 
and thumbed back the hammer and fired. The buckshot rattled off the second storey 
balustrade and took the glass out of some of the windows. When he turned again a car coming 
down Main Street picked him up in the lights and slowed and then speeded up again. He 
turned up Adams Street and the car skidded sideways through the intersection in a cloud of 
rubbersmoke and stopped. The engine had died and the driver was trying to start it. Moss 
turned with his back to the brick wall of the building. Two men had come from the car and 
were crossing the street on foot at a run. One of them opened fire with a small caliber 
machinegun and he fired at them twice with the shotgun and then loped on with the warm 
blood seeping into his crotch. In the street he heard the car start up again.
 By the time he got to Grande Street a pandemonium of gunfire had broken out behind him. He 
didnt think he could run any more. He saw himself limping along in a storewindow across the 
street, holding his elbow to his side, the bag slung over his shoulder and carrying the shotgun 
and the leather document case, dark in the glass and wholly unaccountable. When he looked 
again he was sitting on the sidewalk. Get up you son of a bitch, he said. Dont you set there 
and die. You get the hell up.
 He crossed Ryan Street with blood sloshing in his boots. He pulled the bag around and 
unzipped it and shoved the shotgun in and zipped it shut again. He stood tottering. Then he 
crossed to the bridge. He was cold and shivering and he thought he was going to vomit.
 There was a changewindow and a turnstile on the American side of the bridge and he put a 
dime in the slot and pushed through and staggered out onto the span and eyed the narrow walk 
ahead of him. Just breaking first light. Dull and gray above the floodplain along the east shore 
of the river. God
ll you give? he said.
 That man behind you. The one in the long coat.
 The one in the long coat stopped with the others.
 How much?
 I
s go, Brian. He
s see the money, he said.
 It
s go, Brian.
 You take this hundred and let me hold the coat. Then I
s this on it?
 Blood.
 Blood?
 Blood.
 He stood holding the bill in one hand. He looked at the blood on his fingers. What happened 
to you?
 I
s go, Brian. Goddamn.
 Let me have the money.
 Moss handed him the bills and unshouldered the zipper bag to the sidewalk and struggled into 
the coat. The boy folded the bills and put them in his pocket and stepped away.
 He joined the others and they went on. Then they stopped. They were talking together and 
looking back at him. He got the coat buttoned and put his money in the inside pocket and 
shouldered the bag and picked up the leather case. You all need to keep walkin, he said. I 
wont tell you twice.
 They turned and went on. There were only three of them. He shoved at his eyes with the heel 
of his hand. He tried to see where the fourth one had gone. Then he realized that there was no 
fourth one. That
ve been shot, 
he said.
 The old man looked him over. He clucked his tongue. He looked away toward the dawn. The 
trees and buildings taking shape. He looked at Moss and gestured with his chin. Puede andar? 
he said.
 What?
 Puede caminar? He made walking motions with his fingers, his hand hanging loosely at the 
wrist.
 Moss nodded. A wave of blackness came over him. He waited till it passed.
 Tiene dinero? The sweeper rubbed his thumb and fingers together.
 Si, Moss said. Si. He rose and stood swaying. He took the packet of bloodsoaked bills from 
the overcoat pocket and separated a hundred dollar note and handed it to the old man. The old 
man took it with great reverence. He looked at Moss and then he stood the broom against the 
bench.
 When Chigurh came down the steps and out the front door of the hotel he had a towel 
wrapped around his upper right leg and tied with sections of window blind cord. The towel 
was already wet through with blood. He was carrying a small bag in one hand and a pistol in 
the other.
 The Cadillac was crossways in the intersection and there was gunfire in the street. He stepped 
back into the doorway of the barbershop. The clatter of automatic riflefire and the deep heavy 
slam of a shotgun rattling off the facades of the buildings. The men in the street were dressed 
in raincoats and tennis shoes. They didnt look like anybody you would expect to meet in this 
part of the country. He limped back up the steps to the porch and laid the pistol over the 
balustrade and opened fire on them.
 By the time they
d killed one and wounded 
another. The wounded man got behind the car and opened up on the hotel. Chigurh stood with 
his back to the brick wall and fitted a fresh clip into the pistol. The rounds were taking out the 
glass in the doors and splintering up the sashwork. The foyer light went out. It was still dark 
enough in the street that you could see the muzzleflashes. There was a break in the firing and 
Chigurh turned and pushed his way through into the hotel lobby, the bits of glass crackling 
under his boots. He went gimping down the hallway and down the steps at the rear of the 
hotel and out into the parking lot.
 He crossed the street and went up Jefferson keeping to the north wall of the buildings, trying 
to hurry and swinging the bound leg out at his side. All of this was one block from the 
Maverick County Courthouse and he figured he had minutes at best before fresh parties began 
to arrive.
 When he got to the corner there was only one man standing in the street. He was at the rear of 
the car and the car was badly shot up, all of the glass gone or shot white. There was at least 
one body inside. The man was watching the hotel and Chigurh leveled the pistol and shot him 
twice and he fell down in the street. Chigurh stepped back behind the corner of the building 
and stood with the pistol upright at his shoulder, waiting. A rich tang of gunpowder on the 
cool morning air. Like the smell of fireworks. No sound anywhere.
 When he limped out into the street one of the men he
d been shot through the head and the dark blood 
was pooled all about him. His weapon was lying there but Chigurh paid it no mind. He 
walked to the rear of the car and jostled the man there with his boot and then bent and picked 
up the machine-gun he
s raincoat pockets and came up with three more clips, one of 
them full. He put them in the pocket of his jacket and stuck the pistol down in the front of his 
belt and checked the rounds in the clip that was in the Uzi. Then he slung the piece over his 
shoulder and hobbled back to the curb. The man he
s eyes. The man looked 
away.
 Look at me, Chigurh said.
 The man looked and looked away again.
 Do you speak english?
 Yes.
 Dont look away. I want you to look at me.
 He looked at Chigurh. He looked at the new day paling all about. Chigurh shot him through 
the forehead and then stood watching. Watching the capillaries break up in his eyes. The light 
receding. Watching his own image degrade in that squandered world. He shoved the pistol in 
his belt and looked back up the street once more. Then he picked up the bag and slung the Uzi 
over his shoulder and crossed the street and went limping on toward the hotel parking lot 
where he
s a lots of things in a family history that just plain aint so. Any 
family. The stories gets passed on and the truth gets passed over. As the sayin goes. Which I 
reckon some would take as meanin that the truth cant compete. But I dont believe that. I think 
that when the lies are all told and forgot the truth will be there yet. It dont move about from 
place to place and it dont change from time to time. You cant corrupt it any more than you 
can salt salt. You cant corrupt it because that
s the thing you
ve heard it compared to the rock  maybe in the bibleand I wouldnt disagree with that. 
But it
m sure they
d torture em first, I dont know why. Maybe their 
television was broke. Now here
s what it took, you
s all right. I laughed myself when I read it. There aint a whole lot else you can do.
 IT WAS ALMOST A three hour drive to Odessa and dark when he got there. He listened to 
the truckers on the radio. Has he got jurisdiction up here? Come on. Hell if I know. I think if 
he sees you committin a crime he does. Well I
s wife answered it. As she opened the door he took off 
his hat and he was right away sorry he
m sorry mam, he said. He
ll scare Mama to death. Let me get my coat.
 Yes mam.
 They drove down to the Sunshine Cafe and sat in a booth at the rear and ordered coffee.
 You dont know where he
s some more of your business, aint it.
 Why dont you just pretend I aint the sheriff.
 And pretend you
s in trouble.
Llewelyn aint done nothin.
 It
s in trouble with.
 Who
s all right. You dont care if I keep on callin you Sheriff do you?
 Bell smiled. No, he said. That
s who he is and he always will be. That
re lucky people.
 Yes we are.
 She watched him. How come you to ask me that, she said.
 About havin problems?
 About havin problems.
I just wondered if you were.
 Has somethin happened that you know about and I dont?
 No. I could ask you the same thing.
 Except I wouldnt tell you.
 Yes.
 You think he
d have to say he
ll be the first then.
 I hope that
s more comfort to you than it is to me.
 He sipped the coffee and set the mug down on the table. He watched her. He needs to turn the 
money in, he said. They
s the only chance he
re talkin about.
 All right.
 You care if I smoke? she said.
 I think we
s awful smart.
 Bell nodded. You ought to be more worried about him I guess is what I
m probably 
just about as worried as I need to be.
 He
m coffeed out. I didnt want none to start with.
She looked off across the cafe. The empty tables. The night cashier was a boy about eighteen 
and he was bent over the glass counter reading a magazine. My mama
m sorry to hear that.
 I call her mama. She
d be easier to live with but she aint. She
m just bait settin up here.
 I dont know.
 But that
s all that good a situation.
 Yeah.
 I just hope you
d die and live in hell forever fore I
ll tell you somethin if you want to hear it.
I want to hear it.
 You might think I
d know him when I seen him. I kept a calendar and marked the days. Like 
when you
s a nice story, Bell said. I hope it has a nice endin.
 It happened just like that.
 I know it did. I appreciate you talkin to me. I guess I
m sorry you come all this way not to do no 
better than what you done.
 Bell picked up his hat and put it on and squared it. Well, he said. You do the best you can. 
Sometimes things turns out all right.
 Do you really care?
 About your husband?
 About my husband. Yes.
 Yes mam. I do. The people of Terrell County hired me to look after em. That
d better care.
 You
re the one sayin it.
 Bell smiled. Yes mam, he said. I
ll think about what I did 
say. I aint makin up a word about the kind of trouble he
s all right. I
m 
way in the black on that. Are you ready?
 She got her purse and rose. Bell picked up the check and squared his hat again and eased up 
from the booth. She put her cigarettes in her purse and looked at him. I
s all that more likely it
s just out 
and out war is what it is. I dont know no other name for it.
 He pulled up in front of the sheriff
s days I
 businesses all shot up. People
ll see a blood trail.
 Goin yon way, I reckon.
 If he had any sense. I think them boys in the car got caught in a crossfire. It looks to me like 
they was shootin towards the hotel and up the street yonder both.
 What do you reckon their car was doin in the middle of the intersection thataway?
 I got no idea, Ed Tom.
 They walked up to the hotel.
 What kind of shellcasins did you all pick up?
 Mostly nine millimeter with some shotgun hulls and a few .380
d he catch it?
 Right between the eyes.
They walked into the lobby and stood. Somebody had thrown a couple of towels over the 
blood in the carpet behind the desk but the blood had soaked through the towels. He wasnt 
shot, Bell said.
 Who wasnt shot.
 The nightclerk.
 He wasnt shot?
 No sir.
 What makes you say that?
 You get the lab report and you
s pretty close. I
d put on music, a violin concerto. The phone 
didnt ring.
 Did you take it off the hook?
 No, she said.
 Wires must be down.
 She smiled. I think it
ll come to you.
 Oh.
She smiled. They ate.
 That
s possible. That wouldnt be the end of it though, would it?
 No, I guess it wouldnt.
 You cant count on em to kill one another off like this on a regular basis. But I expect some 
cartel will take it over sooner or later and they
s too much money in it. They
ll send for her?
 Bell stirred his coffee. He sat holding the steaming spoon above the cup, then he laid it in the 
saucer. I dont know, he said. I know he
s correct.
 When did you last see him?
 November twenty-eighth of last year.
 How do you happen to remember the date?
 I dont happen to remember it. I remember dates. Numbers.
 The man nodded. He was standing behind his desk. The desk was of polished stainless steel 
and walnut and there wasnt anything on it. Not a picture or a piece of paper. Nothing.
 We got a loose cannon here. And we
re out a bunch of money.
 Yessir. I understand that.
 You understand that.
 Yessir.
 That
m glad I
s 
up from a thousand.
 Yessir.
How well do you know Chigurh.
 Well enough.
 That
d just like to know your opinion of 
him. In general. The invincible Mr Chigurh.
 Nobody
s a belief that you have?
 No. It
s bad enough that you called 
me. He
s plenty of them around.
 He was in a shoot-out at Eagle Pass yesterday.
 A shoot-out?
 A shoot-out. People dead in the streets. You dont read the papers.
 No sir, I dont.
 He studied Wells. You
s it. Were these Pablo
re sure.
 Not in the sense that you mean. But reasonably sure. They werent ours. He killed two other 
men a couple of days before and those two did happen to be ours. Along with the three at that 
colossal goatfuck a few days before that. All right?
All right. I guess that will do it.
 Good hunting, as we used to say. Once upon a time. In the long ago.
 Thank you sir. Can I ask you something?
 Sure.
 I couldnt come back up in that elevator, could I?
 Not to this floor. Why?
 I was just interested. Security. Always interesting.
 It recodes itself after every trip. A randomly generated five digit number. It doesnt print out 
anywhere. I dial a number and it reads the code back over the phone. I give it to you and you 
punch it in. Does that answer your question?
 Nice.
 Yes.
 I counted the floors from the street.
 And?
 There
ll have to look into it.
 Wells smiled.
 You can see yourself out? the man said.
 Yes.
 All right.
 One other thing.
 What is that.
 I wondered if I could get my parking ticket validated.
 The man cocked his head slightly. This is an attempt at humor I suppose.
 Sorry.
 Good day, Mr Wells.
Right.
 When Wells got to the hotel the plastic ribbons were gone and the glass and wood had been 
swept up out of the lobby and the place was open for business. There was plywood nailed 
over the doors and two of the windows and there was a new clerk standing at the desk where 
the old clerk had been. Yessir, he said.
 I need a room, Wells said.
 Yessir. Is it just yourself?
 Yes.
 And for how many nights would that be.
 Probably just the one.
 The clerk pushed the pad toward Wells and turned to study the keys hanging on the board. 
Wells filled out the form. I know you
m not supposed to discuss it.
 That
re not supposed to discuss?
 Sir?
What time do you get off?
 Sir?
 Let me rephrase that. What time is your shift over.
 The clerk was tall and thin, maybe Mexican and maybe not. His eyes darted briefly over the 
lobby of the hotel. As if there might be something out there to help him. I just came on at six, 
he said. The shift is over at two.
 And who comes on at two.
 I dont know his name. He was the dayclerk.
 He wasnt here the night before last.
 No sir. He was the dayclerk.
 The man who was on duty the night before last. Where is he?
 He
s paper here?
 He backed away and looked under the desk. No sir, he said. I think they threw it out.
 All right. Send me up a couple of whores and a fifth of whiskey with some ice.
 Sir?
 I
re not coming back. I can pretty near 
guarantee it.
 Yessir. I hope to hell not. I didnt even want to take this job.
 Wells smiled and tapped the fiberboard keyfob twice on the marble desktop and went up the 
stairs.
 He was surprised to find the police tape still across both of the rooms. He went on to his own 
room and set his bag in the chair and got out his shavingkit and went in the bathroom and 
turned on the light. He brushed his teeth and washed his face and went back into the room and 
stretched out on the bed. After a while he got up and went to the chair and turned the bag 
sideways and unzipped a compartment in the bottom and took out a suede leather pistolcase. 
He unzipped the case and took out a stainless steel .357 revolver and went back to the bed and 
took off his boots and stretched out again with the pistol beside him.
 When he woke it was almost dark. He rose and went to the window and pushed back the old 
lace curtain. Lights in the street. Long reefs of dull red cloud racked over the darkening 
western horizon. Roofs in a low and squalid skyline. He put the pistol in his belt and pulled 
his shirt outside of his trousers to cover it and went out and down the hallway in his sockfeet.
It took him about fifteen seconds to get into Moss
d been shot through the forehead and had tilted 
forward leaving part of the back of her skull and a good bit of dried brainmatter stuck to the 
slat of the rocker behind her. She had a newspaper in her lap and she was wearing a cotton 
robe that was black with dried blood. It was cold in the room. Wells looked around. A second 
shot had marked a date on a calendar on the wall behind her that was three days hence. You 
could not help but notice. He looked around the rest of the room. He took a small camera 
from his jacket pocket and took a couple of pictures of the dead woman and put the camera 
back in his pocket again. Not what you had in mind at all, was it darling? he told her.
Moss woke in a ward with sheeting hung between him and the bed to his left. A shadowshow 
of figures there. Voices in Spanish. Dim noises from the street. A motorcycle. A dog. He 
turned his face on the pillow and looked into the eyes of a man sitting on a metal chair against 
the wall holding a bouquet of flowers. How are you feeling? the man said.
 I
d say there
ve got to worry about right now.
 You.
 Yes.
 What about that guy that come to the hotel.
 We can talk about him.
 Talk then.
 I can make him go away.
 I can do that myself.
 I dont think so.
 You
s people hadnt shown up when they did I dont think you would have made out so 
good.
 I didnt make out so good.
 Yes you did. You made out extremely well.
 Moss turned his head and looked at the man again. How long have you been here?
 About an hour.
 Just settin there.
 Yes.
You dont have much to do, do you?
 I like to do one thing at a time, if that
s a measurement.
 It
s the distance that round missed your liver by.
 Is that what the doctor told you?
 Yes. You know what the liver does?
 No.
 It keeps you alive. Do you know who the man is who shot you?
 Maybe he didnt shoot me. Maybe it was one of the Mexicans.
 Do you know who the man is?
 No. Am I supposed to?
 Because he
re not listening. You need to pay attention. This man wont stop looking for you. Even if 
he gets the money back. It wont make any difference to him. Even if you went to him and 
gave him the money he would still kill you. Just for having inconvenienced him.
 I think I done a little more than inconvenience him.
 How do you mean.
I think I hit him.
 Why do you think that?
 I sprayed double ought buckshot all over him. I cant believe it done him a whole lot of good.
 Wells sat back in the chair. He studied Moss. You think you killed him?
 I dont know.
 Because you didnt. He came out into the street and killed every one of the Mexicans and then 
went back into the hotel. Like you might go out and get a paper or something.
 He didnt kill ever one of them.
 He killed the ones that were left.
 You tellin me he wasnt hit?
 I dont know.
 You mean why would you tell me.
 If you like.
 Is he a buddy of yours?
 No.
 I thought maybe he was a buddy of yours.
 No you didnt. How do you know he
re talkin about, he said.
 I brought you a couple of photographs.
 He rose and laid two photos on the bed and sat back down again. Moss glanced at them. What 
am I supposed to make of that? he said.
 I took those pictures this morning. The woman lived in an apartment on the second floor of 
one of the buildings you shot up. The body
re full of shit.
Wells studied him. He turned and looked out the window. You dont have anything to do with 
any of this, do you?
 No.
 You just happened to find the vehicles out there.
 I dont know what you
ll come to me. Sooner or later. You dont 
have a choice. I
s his name.
 Chigurh.
 Sugar?
Chigurh. Anton Chigurh.
 How do you know I wont cut a deal with him?
 Wells sat bent forward in the chair with his forearms across his knees, his fingers laced 
together. He shook his head. You
re in a lot of pain. It makes it hard to think. Let me get the nurse.
 I dont need you to do me no favors.
 All right.
 What is he supposed to be, the ultimate bad-ass?
 I dont think that
d say that he doesnt have a sense of humor.
 That aint a crime.
 That
m trying to tell you something.
 Tell me.
 You cant make a deal with him. Let me say it again. Even if you gave him the money he
s no one alive on this planet that
re all dead. These are not good odds. He
re in it would make 
my job easier. I dont know anything about you. But I know you
re not.
 We
ll be the first son of a bitch to know about it.
 It
s called.
 It
re not curious to know why I
d tell me.
 Which is?
 You
re talkin about. I
s what you 
want.
 Wells smiled. He gave a little shrug. He looked down at the toe of his boot and uncrossed his 
legs and passed the toe under his jeans to dust it and recrossed his legs again. What do you 
do? he said.
 What?
 What do you do.
 I
m a welder.
 Acetylene? Mig? Tig?
 Any of it. If it can be welded I can weld it.
 Cast iron?
 Yes.
 I dont mean braze.
 I didnt say braze.
 Pot metal?
 What did I say?
 Were you in Nam?
 Yeah. I was in Nam.
 So was I.
 So what does that make me? Your buddy?
 I was in special forces.
 I think you have me confused with somebody who gives a shit what you were in.
I was a lieutenant colonel.
 Bullshit.
 I dont think so.
 And what do you do now.
 I find people. Settle accounts. That sort of thing.
 You
ll bet.
 This isnt going to go away. Even if you got lucky and took out one or two people  which is 
unlikely  they
ll still find you. 
There
re looking at? Not to mention 
the DEA and various other law enforcement agencies. Everybody
s the only name on it. You need to throw me a bone. I dont really have any reason 
to protect you.
 Are you afraid of this guy?
 Wells shrugged. Wary is the word I
s a redneck sheriff in a hick town in a hick county. In a hick 
state. Let me get the nurse. You
s not on your side. We can even let you keep some of it. But if I have to 
recover the funds from Chigurh then it will be too late for you. Not to mention your wife.
 Moss didnt answer.
All right. You might want to call her. When I talked to her she sounded pretty worried.
 When he was gone Moss turned up the photographs lying on the bed. Like a player checking 
his hole cards. He looked at the pitcher of water but then the nurse came in.
 VI
 YOUNG PEOPLE ANYMORE they seem to have a hard time growin up. I dont know why. 
Maybe it
d married em and baptized em and buried em. He was twenty-one years old, maybe 
twenty-two. When he preached they
re liable to smile at you. But I never had a lot of doubts about 
things like that. In my thoughts about things like that. I hope I never do.
 Loretta told me that she had heard on the radio about some percentage of the children in this 
country bein raised by their grandparents. I forget what it was. Pretty high, I thought. Parents 
wouldnt raise em. We talked about that. What we thought was that when the next generation 
come along and they dont want to raise their children neither then who is goin to do it? Their 
own parents will be the only grandparents around and they wouldnt even raise them. We 
didnt have a answer about that. On my better days I think that there is somethin I dont know 
or there is somethin that I
ve got it. Well, maybe 
they do. I never worried about her bein safe. They get fresh garden stuff a good part of the 
year. Good cornbread. Soupbeans. She
ve had em to come back even years later and they
ve seen em to introduce their 
wives or their sweethearts and then just go to bawlin. Grown men. That had done some pretty 
bad things. She knew what she was doin. She always did. So we go over budget on the jail 
ever month but what are you goin to do about that? You aint goin to do nothin about it. That
re goin to do.
 CHIGURH PULLED OFF of the highway at the junction of 131 and opened the telephone 
directory in his lap and folded over the bloodstained pages till he got to veterinarian. There 
was a clinic outside Bracketville about thirty minutes away. He looked at the towel around his 
leg. It was soaked through with blood and blood had soaked into the seat. He threw the 
directory in the floor and sat with his hands at the top of the steering wheel. He sat there for 
about three minutes. Then he put the vehicle in gear and pulled out onto the highway again.
 He drove to the crossroads at La Pryor and took the road north to Uvalde. His leg was 
throbbing like a pump. On the highway outside of Uvalde he pulled up in front of the 
Cooperative and undid the sashcord from around his leg and pulled away the towel. Then he 
got out and hobbled in.
 He bought a sack full of veterinary supplies. Cotton and tape and gauze. A bulb syringe and a 
bottle of hydrogen peroxide. A pair of forceps. Scissors. Some packets of four inch swabs and 
a quart bottle of Betadine. He paid and went out and got in the Ramcharger and started the 
engine and then sat watching the building in the rearview mirror. As if he might be thinking 
of something else he needed, but that wasnt it. He put his fingers inside the cuff of his shirt 
and carefully blotted the sweat from his eyes. Then he put the vehicle in gear and backed out 
of the parking space and pulled out onto the highway headed toward town.
 He drove down Main Street and turned north on Getty and east again on Nopal where he 
parked and shut off the engine. His leg was still bleeding. He got the scissors from the bag 
and the tape and he cut a three inch round disc out of the cardboard box that held the cotton. 
He put that together with the tape into his shirtpocket. He took a coathanger from the floor 
behind the seat and twisted the ends off and straightened it out. Then he leaned and opened 
his bag and took out a shirt and cut off one sleeve with the scissors and folded it and put it in 
his pocket and put the scissors back in the paper bag from the Cooperative and opened the 
door and eased himself down, lifting his injured leg out with both hands under his knee. He 
stood there, holding on to the door. Then he bent over with his head to his chest and stood that 
way for the better part of a minute. Then he raised up and shut the door and started down the 
street.
 Outside the drugstore on Main he stopped and turned and leaned against a car parked there. 
He checked the street. No one coming. He unscrewed the gascap at his elbow and hooked the 
shirtsleeve over the coathanger and ran it down into the tank and drew it out again. He taped 
the cardboard over the open gastank and balled the sleeve wet with gasoline over the top of it 
and taped it down and lit it and turned and limped into the drugstore. He was little more than 
halfway down the aisle toward the pharmacy when the car outside exploded into flame taking 
out most of the glass in front of the store.
 He let himself in through the little gate and went down the pharmacist
s Office came in and sat down and removed their hats and put them in the empty 
chairs at either side and took the menus from the chrome holder and opened them. One of 
them looked at him. Chigurh watched it all without turning or looking. They spoke. Then the 
other one looked at him. Then the waitress came. He finished his coffee and rose and left the 
money on the table and walked out. He
d carried the 
money into Mexico it was gone. But he hadnt.
 Wells stood back and looked at the bootprints again. Some Mexicans were coming along the 
bridge with their baskets and dayparcels. He took out his camera and snapped a picture of the 
sky, the river, the world.
 Bell sat at the desk signing checks and totting up figures on a hand calculator. When he was 
done he leaned back in his chair and looked out the window at the bleak courthouse lawn. 
Molly, he said.
 She came and stood in the door.
 Did you find anything on any of those vehicles yet?
 Sheriff I found out everything there was to find. Those vehicles are titled and registered to 
deceased people. The owner of that Blazer died twenty years ago. Did you want me to see 
what I could find out about the mexican ones?
 No. Lord no. Here
m goin to try and keep from it as much as I can.
 He said he
s cordial of him. I guess he can go wherever he wants. He
ve got to try and sell them things at auction. More county money down the toilet. One 
of em has got a hot engine in it. We might be able to get a few dollars for that. No word from 
Mrs Moss?
 No sir.
 All right.
 He looked at the clock on the outer office wall. I wonder if I could get you to call Loretta and 
tell her I
ll call her from down there. I
ll want me 
to come home and I just might.
 You want me to wait till you
m goin to commence dedicatin myself twice daily. It may come to three fore it
ll see you in the mornin.
 He stopped at the cafe and got a coffee to go and walked out to the cruiser as the flatbed was 
coming up the street. Powdered over with the gray desert dust. He stopped and watched it and 
then got in the cruiser and wheeled around and drove past the truck and pulled it over. When 
he got out and walked back the driver was sitting at the wheel chewing gum and watching him 
with a sort of goodnatured arrogance.
 Bell put one hand on the cab and looked in at the driver. The driver nodded. Sheriff, he said.
 Have you looked at your load lately?
 The driver looked in the mirror. What
s a 
damned outrage, he said.
 The man walked back and took a look. One of the tiedowns is worked loose, he said.
He got hold of the loose corner of the tarp and pulled it back up along the bed of the truck 
over the bodies lying there, each wrapped in blue reinforced plastic sheeting and bound with 
tape. There were eight of them and they looked like just that. Dead bodies wrapped and taped.
 How many did you leave with? Bell said.
 I aint lost none of em, Sheriff.
 Couldnt you all of took a van out there?
 We didnt have no van with four wheel drive.
 He tied down the corner of the tarp and stood.
 All right, Bell said.
 You aint goin to write me up for improperly secured load?
 You get your ass out of here.
 He reached the Devil
d like to see the registration.
 Are you a police officer?
 No. I
m afraid I cant do that sir.
 Yes you can.
 When he came back up he stopped and stood listening in the hallway outside his door. He 
went in and got the shotgun and the receiver and then walked down to the room with the tape 
across it and held the box to the door and turned it on. He went down to the second door and 
tried the reception there. Then he came back to the first room and opened the door with the 
key from the desk and stepped back and stood against the hallway wall.
 He could hear traffic in the street beyond the parking lot but still he thought the window was 
closed. There was no air moving. He looked quickly into the room. Bed pulled away from the 
wall. Bathroom door open. He checked the safety on the shotgun. He stepped across the 
doorway to the other side.
 There was no one in the room. He scanned the room with the box and found the sending unit 
in the drawer of the bedside table. He sat on the bed turning it in his hand. Small lozenge of 
burnished metal the size of a domino. He looked out the window at the parking lot. His leg 
hurt. He put the piece of metal in his pocket and turned off the receiver and rose and left, 
pulling the door shut behind him. Inside the room the phone rang. He thought about that for a 
minute. Then he set the transponder on the windowsill in the hallway and turned and went 
back down to the lobby.
 And there he waited for Wells. No one would do that. He sat in a leather armchair pushed 
back into the corner where he could see both the front door and the hallway to the rear. Wells 
came in at eleven-thirteen and Chigurh rose and followed him up the stairs, the shotgun 
wrapped loosely in the newspaper he
 room, Wells on the bed and Chigurh in the chair by the window. You dont 
have to do this, Wells said. I
d make it worth your while. Take you to an ATM. Everybody just walks away. There
ve moved on, in a way. Some things have fallen into place 
that were not there before. I thought they were, but they werent. The best way I can put it is 
that I
s not a bad thing. It was overdue.
 It
s just in the wrong currency.
 Wells eyed the distance between them. Senseless. Maybe twenty years ago. Probably not even 
then. Do what you have to do, he said.
 Chigurh sat slouched casually in the chair, his chin resting against his knuckles. Watching 
Wells. Watching his last thoughts. He
s deputy outside of Sonora Texas and I let him take me into town in 
handcuffs. I
re talking about.
 I
m not interested in your bullshit, Anton.
 I thought you might want to explain yourself.
 I dont have to explain myself to you.
 Not to me. To yourself. I thought you might have something to say.
 You go to hell.
 You surprise me, that
d trade places with you?
 Yes. I do. I
s that.
 I know where it
s twenty 
minutes from here.
 You know that
m trying to 
help you.
 You son of a bitch.
 You think you wont close your eyes. But you will.
 Wells didnt answer. Chigurh watched him. I know what else you think, he said.
 You dont know what I think.
 You think I
s just greed. But I
s not good, Carson. You need to compose yourself. If you dont respect me what must you 
think of yourself? Look at where you are.
 You think you
re not.
 Not everything. No.
You
m afraid to die?
 Yes.
 Just do it. Do it and goddamn you.
 It
ve been giving up things for years to get here. I dont think 
I even understood that. How does a man decide in what order to abandon his life? We
s calendar I
m not interested in your opinions, he said. Just do it. You goddamned psychopath. 
Do it and goddamn you to hell.
 He did close his eyes. He closed his eyes and he turned his head and he raised one hand to 
fend away what could not be fended away. Chigurh shot him in the face. Everything that 
Wells had ever known or thought or loved drained slowly down the wall behind him. His 
mother
 car and sorted out the 
doorkey from the ring of keys Wells carried and opened the door and checked the car inside 
front and rear and under the seats. It was a rental car and there was nothing in it but the rental 
contract in the doorpocket. He shut the door and hobbled back and opened the trunk. Nothing. 
He went around to the driver side and opened the door and popped the hood and walked up 
front and raised the hood and looked in the engine compartment and then closed the hood and 
stood looking at the hotel. While he was standing there Wells
s arm. She said 
encouraging things to him in Spanish. They turned at the end of the bay and started back. The 
sweat stood on his forehead. Andale, she said. Qu bueno. He nodded. Damn right bueno, he 
said.
Late in the night he woke from a troubling dream and struggled down the hallway and asked 
to use the telephone. He dialed the number in Odessa and leaned heavily on the counter and 
listened to it ring. It rang a long time. Finally her mother answered.
 It
d do me thisaway.
 Hello darlin, how are you? Are you all right, Llewelyn? What happened to them words?
 Where are you.
 Piedras Negras.
 What am I supposed to do, Llewelyn?
 Are you all right?
 No I
re hurt, aint you?
 What makes you say that?
 I can hear it in your voice. Are you okay?
 I
re in a bus station.
 Carla Jean I think you need to get out of there.
 Out of where?
 Out of that house.
 You
ll be all right.
 She
s sick if you aint forgot.
 What did the sheriff say.
 Said he was lookin for you, what do you think he said?
 What else did he say.
 She didnt answer.
 Carla Jean?
 She sounded like she was crying.
 What else did he say, Carla Jean?
He said you was fixin to get yourself killed.
 Well, that
ve thought about it. It
s real money.
 She said his name again and then she did begin to cry. He tried to talk to her but she didnt 
answer. He stood there listening to her sobbing quietly in Odessa. What do you want me to 
do? he said.
 She didnt answer.
 Carla Jean?
 I want things to be like they was.
 If I tell you I
ve got a number here I can call. Somebody that can help us.
 Can you trust them?
 I dont know. I just know I cant trust nobody else. I
d 
find you up there or I never would of sent you. I
s Wells?
He cant help you now. What kind of a deal did you cut with him?
 I didnt cut any kind of a deal.
 Yes you did. How much was he going to give you?
 I dont know what you
s the money.
 What did you do with Wells.
 We had a difference of opinion. You dont need to concern yourself about Wells. He
m going?
 Why would I care where you
m going?
 Moss didnt answer.
 Are you there?
 I
re in the hospital at Piedras Negras. But that
m going. Do you know where 
I
re goin.
 You can turn all this around.
 Why would I believe you?
 You believed Wells.
 I didnt believe Wells.
 You called him.
 So I called him.
Tell me what you want me to do.
 Moss shifted his weight. Sweat stood on his forehead. He didnt answer.
 Tell me something. I
ll do. You bring 
me the money and I
s accountable. The same as you. I dont 
know if you care about that. But that
re going to get. I wont tell you you 
can save yourself because you cant.
 I
ve decided to make you a special project 
of mine. You aint goin to have to look for me at all.
 I
d folded away there, stiff and bloodstained.
 He stood in the street looking toward the lights. He
d saved and he took one now, 
swallowing it dry. He thought he was going to vomit. He stood there for a long time. There 
was a windowsill there he
d been tottering there for some time 
when another cab passed and he raised his hand and it pulled to the curb.
 The driver studied him. Moss leaned on the window. Can you take me across the bridge? he 
said.
 To the other side.
 Yes. To the other side.
 You got monies.
 Yes. I got monies.
 The driver looked dubious. Twenty dollars, he said.
 Okay.
 At the gate the guard leaned down and regarded him where he sat in the dim rear of the cab. 
What country were you born in? he said.
 The United States.
 What are you bringing in?
 Not anything.
 The guard studied him. Would you mind stepping out here? he said.
 Moss pushed down on the doorhandle and leaned on the front seat to ease himself out of the 
cab. He stood.
 What happened to your shoes?
 I dont know.
 You dont have any clothes on, do you?
 I got clothes on.
 The second guard was waving the cars past. He pointed for the cabdriver. Would you please 
pull your cab over into that second space there?
 The driver put the cab in gear.
 Would you mind stepping away from the vehicle?
Moss stepped away. The cab pulled into the parking area and the driver cut the engine. Moss 
looked at the guard. The guard seemed to be waiting for him to say something but he didnt.
 They took him inside and sat him in a steel chair in a small white office. Another man came in 
and stood leaning against a steel desk. He looked him over.
 How much have you had to drink?
 I aint had anything to drink.
 What happened to you?
 What do you mean?
 What happened to your clothes.
 I dont know.
 Do you have any identification?
 No.
 Nothing.
 No.
 The man leaned back, his arms crossed at his chest. He said: Who do you think gets to go 
through this gate into the United States of America?
 I dont know. American citizens.
 Some American citizens. Who do you think decides that?
 You do I reckon.
 That
d like to start over.
 All right.
 We need to hear more about why you
m a veteran.
 What branch of the service.
 United States Army.
 Were you in Nam?
 Yessir. Two tours.
 What outfit.
 Twelfth Infantry.
 What were your dates of tour duty.
 August seventh nineteen and sixty-six to September second nineteen and sixty-eight.
 The man watched him for some time. Moss looked at him and looked away. He looked 
toward the door, the empty hall. Sitting hunched forward in the overcoat with his elbows on 
his knees.
 Are you all right?
 Yessir. I
ll come and get me if you all will let me go on.
 Have you got any money? You got change for a phone call?
 Yessir.
 He heard claws scrabbling on the tiles. A guard was standing there with a German Shepherd 
on a lead. The man jutted his chin at the guard. Get someone to help this man. He needs to get 
into town. Is the taxi gone?
 Yessir. It was clean.
 I know. Get someone to help him.
 He looked at Moss. Where are you from?
 I
re sorry.
 Sir?
 I said you need to tell her you
m tellin you?
 Yessir. I do.
 Go on.
 Yessir.
 It was almost daylight and the cab was long gone. He set out up the street. A bloody serum 
was leaking from his wound and it was running down the inside of his leg. People paid him 
little mind. He turned up Adams Street and stopped at a clothing store and peered in. Lights 
were on at the rear. He knocked at the door and waited and knocked again. Finally a small 
man in a white shirt and a black tie opened the door and looked out at him. I know you aint 
open, Moss said, but I need some clothes real bad. The man nodded and swung open the door. 
Come in, he said.
 They walked side by side down the aisle toward the boot section. Tony Lama, Justin, Nocona. 
There were some low chairs there and Moss eased himself down and sat with his hands 
gripping the chair arms. I need boots and some clothes, he said. I got some medical problems 
and I dont want to walk around no more than what I can help.
The man nodded. Yessir, he said. Of course.
 Do you carry the Larry Mahans?
 No sir. We dont.
 That
s 
hats with the small brim? Seven and three-eights?
 Yes we do. We have a three X beaver in the Resistol and a little better grade in the Stetson. A 
five X, I think it is.
 Let me see the Stetson. That silverbelly color.
 All right sir. Are white socks all right?
 White socks is all I wear.
 What about underwear?
 Maybe a pair of jockey shorts. Thirty-two. Or medium.
 Yessir. You just make yourself comfortable. Are you all right?
 I
s try that hat. I aint been duded up like 
this since I got out of the army.
 The sheriff sipped his coffee and set the cup back down in the same ring on the glass desktop 
that he
re fixin to close the hotel, he said.
 Bell nodded. I aint surprised.
 They all quit. That feller hadnt pulled but two shifts. I blame myself. Never occurred to me 
that the son of a bitch would come back. I just never even imagined such a thing.
 He might never of left.
 I thought about that too.
 The reason nobody knows what he looks like is that they dont none of em live long enough to 
tell it.
 This is a goddamned homicidal lunatic, Ed Tom.
 Yeah. I dont think he
s done closed, as far as that goes.
 You got a key?
 Yeah. I got a key. It
s all we need.
 It
s somethin about this whole deal that dont rattle right.
 It aint supposed to.
 We got a ex-army colonel here with most of his head gone that you had to ID off of his 
fingerprints. What fingers wasnt shot off. Regular army. Fourteen years service. Not a piece 
of paper on him.
 He
m supposed to be lookin after.
 He handed the transponder unit to the sheriff.
 What am I supposed to do with this?
 It
s worse than that.
 How
re talkin about the early settlers. I 
used to tell em that havin your wife and children killed and scalped and gutted like fish has a 
tendency to make some people irritable but they didnt seem to know what I was talkin about. I 
think the sixties in this country sobered some of em up. I hope it did. I read in the papers here 
a while back some teachers come across a survey that was sent out back in the thirties to a 
number of schools around the country. Had this questionnaire about what was the problems 
with teachin in the schools. And they come across these forms, they
m gettin old. That it
ve got. Forty years is not a 
long time neither. Maybe the next forty of it will bring some of em out from under the ether. If 
it aint too late.
 Here a year or two back me and Loretta went to a conference in Corpus Christi and I got set 
next to this woman, she was the wife of somebody or other. And she kept talkin about the right 
wing this and the right wing that. I aint even sure what she meant by it. The people I know are 
mostly just common people. Common as dirt, as the sayin goes. I told her that and she looked 
at me funny. She thought I was sayin somethin bad about em, but of course that
ll be able to have an abortion. I
ll be able to have you put to sleep. 
Which pretty much ended the conversation.
CHIGURH LIMPED UP THE seventeen flights of concrete steps in the cool concrete well 
and when he got to the steel door on the landing he shot the cylinder out of the lock with the 
plunger of the stungun and opened the door and stepped into the hallway and shut the door 
behind him. He stood leaning against the door with the shotgun in both hands, listening. 
Breathing no harder than if he
s 
shadow framed there by the light from the smoked glass window behind him. He pushed the 
shotgun
m the man you sent Carson Wells to kill. Is that what you wanted to know?
 He watched him. He was wearing a blue nylon runningsuit and a pair of white leather shoes. 
Blood was starting to pool about his head and he was shivering as if he were cold.
 The reason I used the birdshot was that I didnt want to break the glass. Behind you. To rain 
glass on people in the street. He nodded toward the window where the man
s hand had gone slack at his throat and the blood had slowed. He looked at the 
pistol lying there. He rose and pushed the safety back on the shotgun and stepped past the 
man to the window and inspected the pockings the lead had made. When he looked down at 
the man again the man was dead. He crossed the room and stood at the doorway listening. He 
went out and down the hall and collected his tank and the stungun and got his boots and 
stepped into them and pulled them up. Then he walked down the corridor and went out 
through the metal door and down the concrete steps to the garage where he
s side and opened the door. Her mother 
turned and began to struggle out into the rain.
 Mama will you wait? I need to get around there.
 I knowed this is what it would come to, the mother said. I said it three year ago.
 It aint been three years.
 I used them very words.
 Just wait till I get around there.
 In the rain, her mother said. She looked up at the cab-driver. I got cancer, she said. Now look 
at this. Not even a home to go to.
 Yes mam.
 We
s how many, she said.
 Yes mam.
 They sat in the coffeeshop surrounded by their bags and parcels and stared out at the rain and 
at the idling buses. At the gray day breaking. She looked at her mother. Did you want some 
more coffee? she said.
 The old woman didnt answer.
 You aint speakin, I reckon.
 I dont know what there is to speak about.
 Well I dont guess I do either.
Whatever you all done you done. I dont know why I ought to have to run from the law.
 We aint runnin from the law, Mama.
 You couldnt call on em to help you though, could you?
 Call on who?
 The law.
 No. We couldnt.
 That
d 
vacated. I give myself no credit, she said. I
s room he could smell the sweet musty 
odor of sickness and he thought for a moment she might even be lying there in the bed. He 
switched on the flashlight and went into the bathroom. He stood reading the labels of the 
pharmacy bottles on the vanity. He looked out the window at the street below, the dull winter 
light from the streetlamps. Two in the morning. Dry. Cold. Silent. He went out and down the 
hallway to the small bedroom at the rear of the house.
 He emptied her bureau drawers out onto the bed and sat sorting through her things, holding up 
from time to time some item and studying it in the bluish light from the yardlamp. A plastic 
hairbrush. A cheap fairground bracelet. Weighing these things in his hand like a medium who 
might thereby divine some fact concerning the owner. He sat turning the pages in a photo 
album. School friends. Family. A dog. A house not this one. A man who may have been her 
father. He put two pictures of her in his shirtpocket.
 There was a ceiling fan overhead. He got up and pulled the chain and lay down on the bed 
with the shotgun alongside him, watching the wooden blades wheel slowly in the light from 
the window. After a while he got up and took the chair from the desk in the corner and tilted it 
and pushed the top backladder up under the doorknob. Then he sat on the bed and pulled off 
his boots and stretched out and went to sleep.
 In the morning he walked through the house again upstairs and down and then returned to the 
bathroom at the end of the hall to shower. He left the curtain pulled back, the water spraying 
onto the floor. The hallway door open and the shotgun lying on the vanity a foot away.
 He dried the dressing on his leg with a hairdryer and shaved and dressed and went down to 
the kitchen and ate a bowl of cereal and milk, walking through the house as he ate. In the 
livingroom he stopped and looked at the mail lying in the floor beneath the brass slot in the 
front door. He stood there, chewing slowly. Then he set bowl and spoon on the coffeetable 
and crossed the room and bent over and picked up the mail and stood sorting through it. He 
sat in a chair by the door and opened the phone bill and cupped the envelope and blew into it.
 He glanced down the list of calls. Halfway down was the Terrell County Sheriff
d stood before. He crossed to 
a cheap mahogany desk and opened the top drawer. The drawer was stuffed with mail. He laid 
the shotgun down and sat in the chair and pulled the mail out and piled it on the desk and 
began to go through it.
 Moss spent the day in a cheap motel on the edge of town sleeping naked in the bed with his 
new clothes on wire hangers in the closet. When he woke the shadows were long in the motel 
courtyard and he struggled up and sat on the edge of the bed. A pale bloodstain the size of his 
hand on the sheets. There was a paper bag on the night table that held things he
s your name?
 Paul, said the driver.
 You got the right attitude, Paul. I wont get you in trouble. I just dont want you to leave me 
somewheres that I dont want to be left.
 All right.
 Have you got a flashlight?
 Yeah. I got a flashlight.
 Let me have it.
 The driver passed the flashlight to the back.
 You
re not pickin anybody up.
 The driver watched him in the mirror. No drogas, he said.
 No drogas.
 The driver waited.
 I
re not jerkin me around.
 No.
 I like money but I like stayin out of jail even better.
 I
m goin to unscrew the bulb out of this domelight.
 They watch this road round the clock, the driver said.
 I know that.
 The driver pulled off of the road and shut off the engine and the lights and looked at Moss in 
the mirror. Moss took the bulb from the light and laid it in the plastic lens and handed it 
across the seat to the driver and opened the door. I should be back in just a few minutes, he 
said.
 The cane was dusty, the stalks close grown. He pushed his way through carefully, holding the 
light at his knees with his hand partly across the lens.
 The case was sitting in the brake rightside up and intact as if someone had simply set it there. 
He switched off the light and picked it up and made his way back in the dark, taking his sight 
by the span of the bridge overhead. When he got to the cab he opened the door and set the 
case in the seat and got in carefully and shut the door. He handed the flashlight to the driver 
and leaned back in the seat. Let
s in there, the driver said.
 Money.
 Money?
 Money.
 The driver started the engine and pulled out onto the road.
 Turn the lights on, Moss said.
 He turned the lights on.
 How much money?
A lot of money. What will you take to drive me to San Antonio.
 The driver thought about it. You mean on top of the five hundred.
 Yes.
 How about a grand all in.
 Everthing.
 Yes.
 You got it.
 The driver nodded. Then how about the other half of these five caesars I already got.
 Moss took the bills from his pocket and handed them across the back of the seat.
 What if the Migra stop us.
 They wont stop us, Moss said.
 How do you know?
 There
re right.
 Trust me, Moss said.
 I hate hearin them words, the driver said. I always did.
 Have you ever said them?
 Yeah. I
s how come I know what they
s dangerous to hitchhike?
 Yeah. I know it.
 He took off his hat and put it on the seat beside him and leaned back and closed his eyes. Dont 
go over the speed limit, he said. You get us stopped by the cops and you and me both will be 
in a shitpot full of trouble.
 All right.
I
ll set your ass out by the side of the road.
 All right.
 He tried to sleep but he couldnt. He was in a lot of pain. After a while he sat up and got his hat 
off the seat and put it on and looked over at the speedometer.
 Can I ask you somethin? she said.
 You can ask.
 Are you runnin from the law?
 Moss eased himself in the seat and looked at her and looked out at the highway. What makes 
you ask that?
 On account of what you said back yonder. About bein stopped by the police.
 What if I was?
 Then I think I ought to just get out up here.
 You dont think that. You just want to know where you stand.
 She looked at him out of the corner of her eye. Moss studied the passing country. If you spent 
three days with me, he said, I could have you holdin up gas stations. Be no trick at all.
 She gave him a funny little half smile. Is that what you do? she said. Hold up gas stations?
 No. I dont have to. Are you hungry?
 I
s supposed to be four miles. And reach me that 
machinegun from under the seat.
 Bell drove slowly across the cattleguard and got out and closed the gate and got back in the 
truck and drove across the pasture and parked at the well and got out and walked over to the 
tank. He put his hand in the water and raised a palmful and let it spill again. He took off his 
hat and passed his wet hand through his hair and looked up at the windmill. He looked out at 
the slow dark elliptic of the blades turning in the dry and windbent grass. A low wooden 
trundling under his feet. Then he just stood there paying the brim of his hat slowly through his 
fingers. The posture of a man perhaps who has just buried something. I dont know a damn 
thing, he said.
 When he got home she had supper waiting. He dropped the keys to the pickup in the kitchen 
drawer and went to the sink to wash his hands. His wife laid a piece of paper on the counter 
and he stood looking at it.
 Did she say where she was? This is a West Texas number.
 She just said it was Carla Jean and give the number.
 He went to the sideboard and called. She and her grandmother were in a motel outside of El 
Paso. I need for you to tell me somethin, she said.
 All right.
 Is your word good?
 Yes it is.
 Even to me?
 I
VE LOST A LOT OF friends over these last few years. Not all of em older than me neither. 
One of the things you realize about gettin older is that not everbody is goin to get older with 
you. You try to help the people that
d be any compliment if you was known 
for second guessin a bunch of dopedealers. Not that they have all that much trouble second 
guessin us. They dont have no respect for the law? That aint half of it. They dont even think 
about the law. It dont seem to even concern em. Of course here a while back in San Antonio 
they shot and killed a federal judge. I guess he concerned em. Add to that that there
s a painful thing to know. Or it is 
for me. I dont believe that was true even ten years ago. A crooked peace officer is just a 
damned abomination. That
s ten times worse than the criminal. 
And this aint goin away. And that
m even still alive is that they have no respect for me. And that
s seat in it. You could smell the 
marijuana, you didnt need no dog. Well the sheriff over there  and I wont say his name 
 he wanted to get set up and nail em when they come back for the plane and finally somebody 
told him that they wasnt nobody comin back. Never had been. When he finally understood 
what it was they was tellin him he just got real quiet and then he turned around and got in his 
car and left.
 When they was havin them dope wars down across the border you could not buy a half quart 
masonjar nowheres. To put up your preserves and such. Your chow chow. They wasnt none to 
be had. What it was they was usin them jars to put handgrenades in. If you flew over 
somebody
d go off fore they hit 
the ground. So what they done was they
d break and release the spoon. 
The lever. They would preload cases of them things. Hard to believe that a man would ride 
around at night in a small plane with a cargo such as that, but they done it.
 I think if you were Satan and you were settin around tryin to think up somethin that would just 
bring the human race to its knees what you would probably come up with is narcotics. Maybe 
he did. I told that to somebody at breakfast the other mornin and they asked me if I believed in 
Satan. I said Well that aint the point. And they said I know but do you? I had to think about 
that. I guess as a boy I did. Come the middle years my belief I reckon had waned somewhat. 
Now I
re hurt, aint you?
 What makes you say that?
 You cant hardly walk.
Maybe it
d get excited?
 Cause bad girls like bad boys. What are you goin to have?
 I dont know. What is it you do?
 Three weeks ago I was a law abidin citizen. Workin a nine to five job. Eight to four, anyways. 
Things happen to you they happen. They dont ask first. They dont require your permission.
 That
ll hear some more of it.
 You think I
d like to be.
 What
s in it.
 I could tell you, but then I
s wrote all over you. You just dont want to get shot. What are you havin?
 What are you?
 Cheeseburger and a chocolate milk.
 The waitress came and they ordered. She got the hot beef sandwich with mashed potatoes and 
gravy. You aint even asked me where I was goin, she said.
 I know where you
s more than just a answer.
 You dont know everthing.
 No I dont.
 You ever kill anybody?
 Yeah, he said. You?
 She looked embarrassed. You know I aint never killed nobody.
 I dont know that.
 Well I aint.
 You aint, then.
 You aint done, either. Are you?
 Done what.
 What I just said.
 Killin people?
 She looked around to see if they might be overheard.
 Yes, she said.
 Be hard to say.
After a while the waitress brought their plates. He bit the corner off a packet of mayonnaise 
and squeezed out the contents over his cheeseburger and reached for the ketchup. Where you 
from? he said.
 She took a drink of her iced tea and wiped her mouth with the paper napkin. Port Arthur, she 
said.
 He nodded. He took up the cheeseburger in both hands and bit into it and sat back, chewing. I 
aint never been to Port Arthur.
 I aint never seen you there.
 How could you of seen me there if I aint never been there?
 I couldnt. I was just sayin I aint. I was agreein with you.
 Moss shook his head.
 They ate. He watched her.
 I reckon you
s the direction you
s where I
s it to you?
 It aint nothin to me. Do you?
 I got some.
 He finished the cheeseburger and wiped his hands on the paper napkin and drank the rest of 
the milk. Then he reached in his pocket and took out the roll of hundreds and unfolded them. 
He counted out a thousand dollars onto the formica and pushed it toward her and put the roll 
back in his pocket. Let
s that for?
 To go to California on.
 What do I gotta do for it?
 You dont have to do nothin. Even a blind sow finds a acorn ever once in a while. Put that up 
and let
d forgot I had 
em, she said.
 I dont forget much.
 I could of just slipped off like I was goin to the ladies room and took your truck and left you 
settin there.
 No you couldnt of.
 Why not?
 Get in the truck.
 They got in and he set the case between them and pulled the Tec-9 out of his belt and slid it 
under the seat.
 Why not? she said.
 Dont be ignorant all your life. In the first place I could see all the way to the front door and 
out the parkin lot clear to the truck. In the second place even if I was dumb-ass enough to set 
with my back to the door I
d slept a good part of the 
way, curled up with her knapsack for a pillow. He pulled into a truckstop and shut off the 
engine and her eyes snapped open like a deer
d 
ordered.
 I did. I ordered some of that chicken for you.
 You aint done it, she said.
 They ordered steaks. Do you live like this all the time? she said.
 Sure. When you
s the limit.
 What
s a tush off of a wild boar.
 What do you wear that for?
 It aint mine. I
re at? he said.
 What?
 I said does anybody know where you
re at because I dont know who you are.
 Well that makes two of us.
 You dont know who you are?
 No, silly. I dont know who you are.
 Well, we
d you ask me that for?
Moss mopped up steak gravy with a half a roll. I just thought it was probably true. For you it
s a necessity.
 Why? Because they
ll see.
 Why is that.
 There
re at. Knows where and why. For the most part.
 Are you talkin about God?
 No. I
d be in a fix if you didnt know where you was at.
 I dont know. Would you?
 I dont know.
 Suppose you was someplace that you didnt know where it was. The real thing you wouldnt 
know was where someplace else was. Or how far it was. It wouldnt change nothin about 
where you was at.
 She thought about that. I try not to think about stuff like that, she said.
 You think when you get to California you
s my intentions.
 I think maybe that
s a road goin to California and there
d do that.
 I dont either. That
s not about knowin where you are. It
s. 
You dont start over. That
s about. Ever step you take is forever. You cant make it go 
away. None of it. You understand what I
s made out of. Nothin else. You might think you could run away and 
change your name and I dont know what all. Start over. And then one mornin you wake up 
and look at the ceilin and guess who
m sayin?
 I understand that. I been there.
 Yeah, I know you have.
 So are you sorry you become a outlaw?
 Sorry I didnt start sooner. Are you ready?
 When he came out of the motel office he handed her a key.
 What
s your key.
 She hefted it in her hand and looked at him. Well, she said. It
re afraid I
s in that bag.
Not really.
 He started the truck and pulled down the parking lot behind the motel office.
 Are you queer? she said.
 Me? Yeah, I
s good. You need to practice that. It sounds good on you.
 Later he went out and drove down to the quickstop. When he pulled back into the motel he sat 
there studying the cars in the lot. Then he got out.
 He walked down to her room and tapped at the door. He waited. He tapped again. He saw the 
curtain move and then she opened the door. She stood there in the same jeans and T-shirt. She 
looked like she
d see if you wanted a beer.
 Yeah, she said. I
d already turned to go. She stepped out and let the door shut behind her. You dont need to 
rush off thataway, she said.
 He stopped on the lower step.
 You got another one of these in that sack?
 Yeah. I got two more. And I aim to drink both of em.
I just meant maybe you could set here and drink one of em with me.
 He squinted at her. You ever notice how women have trouble takin no for a answer? I think it 
starts about age three.
 What about men?
 They get used to it. They better.
 I wont say a word. I
s already a lie.
 Well I wont say hardly nothin. I
s sleep in about two weeks. I dont know what it would feel like. I think it
s by your lights.
 What does that mean?
 Nothin. I
ll quit.
 You aint got drugs in that satchel have you?
 No. Why? You use drugs?
 I
s all right.
 Moss shook his head. He drank.
 I just meant it
m glad to hear that
m goin to El Paso.
 I thought you didnt know where you was goin.
 Maybe I just decided.
 I dont think so.
 Moss didnt answer.
 This is nice settin out here, she said.
 I guess it depends on where you been settin.
 You aint just got out of the penitentiary or somethin have you?
 I just got off of death row. They
s started to grow back.
 You
s huntin me.
 What did you do?
 I been pickin up young girls hitchhikin and buryin em out in the desert.
 That aint funny.
 You
d quit.
 I will.
Do you ever tell the truth?
 Yeah. I tell the truth.
 You
s your wife
m a welder.
 She watched him. To see what else he would say. He didnt say anything.
 You aint no welder, she said.
 Why aint I?
 What have you got that machinegun for?
 Cause they
s what
re somethin. Aint you?
 Everbody
s where I ought to go?
 He looked at her and looked away again. He stretched his legs out on the concrete and crossed 
his boots and looked out across the parking lot toward the highway and the lights on the 
highway. Darlin, he said, how in the hell would I know where you ought to go?
 Yeah. Well, I appreciate you givin me that money.
 You
s a lot of money though.
 It aint half what you think it is. You
ll be all right.
 I hope so.
 Best way to live in California is to be from somewheres else. Probably the best way is to be 
from Mars.
 I hope not. Cause I aint.
You
s pretty old. I didnt know you was that old.
 I know. It kind of took me by surprise my own self.
 I got a feelin I ought to be afraid of you but I aint.
 Well. I cant advise you on that neither. Most people
s what you think I
re doin.
 I wonder where I
s a lot of bad luck out there. You hang around long enough and you
m due for a change. I might even be overdue.
 Yeah? Well you aint.
 Why do you say that?
 He looked at her. Let me tell you somethin, little sister. If there is one thing on this planet that 
you dont look like it
s a hateful thing to say.
 No it aint. I just want you to be careful. We get to El Paso I
s that?
 You know. About beatin the crap out of me.
 No.
 I didn
ll be back in a minute.
 All right. You aint changed your mind have you?
 About what?
 You know about what.
 I dont change my mind. I like to get it right the first time.
 He rose and started up the walkway. She stood at the door. I
s that?
 There
re just a little late. Cause I done bought. And I think I
s happened, Marvin?
 Had a little shoot-out. You know anything about this?
 I dont know. You got any victims?
 They left out of here about a half hour ago in the ambulance. Two men and a woman. The 
woman was dead and the one boy I dont think is goin to make it either. The other one might.
 Do you know who they were?
 No. One of the men was Mexican and we
s head he 
laid his own piece down. And whenever he done that the Mexican shoved the woman away 
and shot her and then turned and shot him. He was standin in front of 117, right yonder. Shot 
em with a goddamned machinegun. Accordin to this witness the old boy fell down the steps 
and then he picked up his gun again and shot the Mexican. Which I dont see how he done it. 
He was shot all to pieces. You can see the blood on the walkway yonder. We had a real good 
response time. About seven minutes, I think. The girl was just shot dead.
 No ID.
 No ID. The other old boy
d sat in the back of police 
cruisers before.
 That woman, Bell said. Was she anglo?
 Yeah. She was anglo. Had blonde hair. Sort of reddish, maybe.
 Did you all find any dope?
 Not yet. We
d say it would turn em pretty good. It
s one of them sidewinders. It
ll be fine. Let me just park my cruiser a little better.
 Hell, it
ll be back 
when you set off someplace.
 At the desk the sheriff spoke to the night nurse by name. She looked at Bell.
He
s tables on wheels. 
On two of them lay bodies covered with plastic sheets. She stood with her back to the open 
door while they filed past.
 He aint a friend of yours is he Ed Tom?
 No.
 He took a couple of rounds in the face so I dont think he
s neck and his head was turned to the side. One eye partly opened. He looked like a 
badman on a slab. They
s him.
 You look like you wished it wasnt.
 I get to tell his wife.
 I
s face and reached and lifted back the plastic at the other table and 
looked at Bell. Bell shook his head.
 They
ll get your information down at the office. Kind of a skankylookin little old girl.
 Yeah.
 He covered her face again. I dont reckon his wife is goin to like that part of it neither, he said.
 No, I dont expect she will.
 The sheriff looked at the nurse. She was still standing leaning against the door. How many 
times was she hit? he said. Do you know?
 No I dont, Sheriff. You can look at her if you want. I dont mind and I know she wont.
 That
ll be on the autopsy. Are you ready, Ed Tom?
 Yeah. I was ready fore I come in here.
 He sat in the sheriff
s gone home, I reckon.
 Yessir, the deputy said. Can I help you with somethin, Sheriff?
 How far is it to El Paso?
 It
ll give him a call tomorrow.
 Yessir.
 He stopped and ate on the far side of town and sat in the booth and sipped his coffee and 
watched the lights out on the highway. Something wrong. He couldnt make sense out of it. He 
looked at his watch. 1:20. He paid and walked out and got in the cruiser and sat there. Then he
 drove to the intersection and turned east and drove back to the motel again.
 Chigurh checked into a motel on the eastbound interstate and walked out across a windy field 
in the dark and watched across the highway through a pair of binoculars. The big overland 
trucks loomed up in the glasses and drew away. He squatted on his heels with his elbows on 
his knees, watching. Then he went back to the motel.
 He set his alarm for one oclock and when it went off he got up and showered and dressed and 
walked out to his truck with his small leather bag and put it behind the seat.
He parked in the motel parking lot and he sat there for some time. Leaning back in the seat 
and watching in the rearview mirror. Nothing. The police cars were long gone. The yellow 
police tape across the door lifted in the wind and the trucks droned past headed for Arizona 
and California. He got out and walked up to the door and blew out the lock with his stungun 
and walked in and shut the door behind him. He could see the room pretty well by the light 
through the windows. Small spills of light from the bulletholes in the plywood door. He 
pulled the little bedside table over to the wall and stood and took a screwdriver from his rear 
pocket and began to back the screws out of the louvered steel cover of the airduct. He set it on 
the table and reached in and pulled out the bag and stepped down and walked over to the 
window and looked out at the parking lot. He took the pistol from behind his belt and opened 
the door and stepped out and closed it behind him and stooped under the tape and walked 
down to his truck and got in.
 He set the bag in the floor and he
s out there, he said.
 Yes you do. You knew it at the restaurant. That
s office. They sent two cars. He hung the mike up and put 
the cruiser in neutral and rolled back down the edge of the highway until he could just see the 
motel sign. He looked at his watch. 1:45. That seven minute time would make it 1:52. He 
waited. At the motel nothing moved. At 1:52 he saw them come down the highway and tail 
each other up the offramp with sirens on and lights blazing. He kept his eyes on the motel. 
Any vehicle that came out of the lot and headed up the access road he
s he done that with, Sheriff? the deputy said, holding the cylinder in his hand.
 It
m sorry to of got you all out here for nothin.
 Not a problem, Sheriff.
 You tell the sheriff I
ll sure do it.
 Two hours later he checked into the Rodeway Inn on the east side of town and got the key and 
went to his room and went to bed. He woke at six as he always did and got up and closed the 
curtains and went back to bed but he couldnt sleep. Finally he got up and showered and 
dressed and went down to the coffeeshop and got his breakfast and read the paper. There
d have to say it would be a while.
 I guess it would too, she said. A long while.
 He
m sorry, mam, he said.
 Oh God, she said. She staggered back into the room and slumped to the floor and buried her 
face in her forearms with her hands over her head. Bell stood there holding his hat. He didnt 
know what to do. He couldnt see any sign of the grandmother. Two Spanish maids were 
standing in the parking lot watching and whispering to each other. He stepped into the room 
and closed the door.
 Carla Jean, he said.
 Oh God, she said.
 I
m sorry, he said.
 She raised her head and looked at him. Her crumpled face. Damn you, she said. You stand 
there and tell me you
re 
sorry one more time and by God if I wont get my gun and shoot you.
 IX
 I HAD TO TAKE HER at her word. Not a lot else you could do. I never saw her again. I 
wanted to tell her that the way they had it in the papers wasnt right. About him and that girl. 
It turned out she was a runaway. Fifteen years old. I dont believe that he had anything to do 
with her and I hate it that she thought that. Which you know she did. I called her a number of 
times but she
d done and all such as that. You end up lookin like a fool. 
He
s out there. You wouldnt think it would be possible to just come and go 
thataway. I keep waitin to hear somethin else. Maybe I will yet. Or maybe not. It
s mind at ease like wakin up in the morning and not havin to decide 
who you were. And if you done somethin wrong just stand up and say you done it and say 
you
d be too late. By the time you figured it out it 
would be too late.
 CHIGURH STOOD AT THE receptionist
s not. But he
s yours, he said.
 What is it?
 It
m in charge of who is coming and who is not. I think we need to address the issue 
here. I dont want to spend a lot of time trying to put your mind at ease. I think it would be 
both hopeless and thankless. So let
ve been at some pains to recover your property so I
m sorry I couldnt recover it all, but there you are.
 The man hadnt moved. After a while he said: Who the hell are you?
 My name is Anton Chigurh.
 I know that.
 Then why did you ask?
 What do you want. I guess that
d say that the purpose of my visit is simply to establish my bonafides. As someone 
who is an expert in a difficult field. As someone who is completely reliable and completely 
honest. Something like that.
 Someone I might do business with.
 Yes.
 You
d first put his hands on the desk behind him he had 
looked somewhat relaxed. He was still standing in the identical attitude but he didnt look that 
way anymore.
 There
ll call you in 
two days time.
 All right.
 Chigurh rose from the couch. The man nodded toward the case. You could do a lot of 
business on your own with that, he said.
 Chigurh smiled. We have a lot to talk about, he said. We
ve moved on to other things. Not everyone is suited to this line of work. The prospect of 
outsized profits leads people to exaggerate their own capabilities. In their minds. They pretend 
to themselves that they are in control of events where perhaps they are not. And it is always 
one
s enemies. Or discourages 
it.
 And you? What about your enemies?
 I have no enemies. I dont permit such a thing.
 He looked around the room. Nice office, he said. Low key. He nodded to a painting on the 
wall. Is that original?
 The man looked at the painting. No, he said. It
s sister. 
The sister
d 
come with their faces veiled in black. She put her hand on her uncle
m talkin about.
 How much do you have.
 I dont have none of it. I had about seven thousand dollars all told and I can tell you it
s bills aplenty left to pay yet. I buried my mother today. I aint paid for that 
neither.
 I wouldnt worry about it.
 She looked at the bedside table.
 It
ve got no cause to hurt me, she 
said.
 I know. But I gave my word.
 Your word?
 Yes. We
m afraid it does.
 I dont have the money. You know I aint got it.
 I know.
 You give your word to my husband to kill me?
 Yes.
 He
m not.
 You dont owe nothin to dead people.
 Chigurh cocked his head slightly. No? he said.
 How can you?
 How can you not?
 They
re just a blasphemer.
 Hard words. But what
s way and he 
chose not to do so. He was given that option and his answer was no. Otherwise I would not be 
here now.
 You aim to kill me.
 I
s a reason for everything.
She shook her head. How many times I
ve suffered a loss of faith.
 I
d like to say?
 To who?
 I
ll be all right. Try not to worry about it.
 What?
 I see your look, he said. It doesn
m a bad person.
 I knowed you was crazy when I seen you settin there, she said. I knowed exactly what was in 
store for me. Even if I couldnt of said it.
 Chigurh smiled. It
s not any help though, is it?
 No.
 So why do you say it?
 I aint never said it before.
 Any of you.
 There
m sorry.
 She didnt answer.
 Maybe it
re the one.
 It could have gone either way.
 The coin didnt have no say. It was just you.
 Perhaps. But look at it my way. I got here the same way the coin did.
 She sat sobbing softly. She didnt answer.
 For things at a common destination there is a common path. Not always easy to see. But there.
Everthing I ever thought has turned out different, she said. There aint the least part of my life 
I could of guessed. Not this, not none of it.
 I know.
 You wouldnt of let me off noway.
 I had no say in the matter. Every moment in your life is a turning and every one a choosing. 
Somewhere you made a choice. All followed to this. The accounting is scrupulous. The shape 
is drawn. No line can be erased. I had no belief in your ability to move a coin to your bidding. 
How could you? A person
m sorry.
 She looked at him a final time. You dont have to, she said. You dont. You dont.
 He shook his head. You
re asking that I second say the world. Do you 
see?
 Yes, she said, sobbing. I do. I truly do.
 Good, he said. That
s lawn and looked at 
his arm. Bone sticking up under the skin. Not good. A woman in a housedress ran out 
screaming.
 Blood kept running into his eyes and he tried to think. He held the arm and turned it and tried 
to see how badly it was bleeding. If the median artery were severed. He thought not. His head 
was ringing. No pain. Not yet.
 Two teenage boys were standing there looking at him.
 Are you all right, mister?
 Yeah, he said. I
s an ambulance comin. Man over yonder went to call one.
 All right.
 You sure you
ll give you 
my shirt.
 Chigurh took the shirt and bit into it and ripped it in two down the back. He wrapped his head 
in a bandanna and he twisted the other half of the shirt into a sling and put his arm in it.
 Tie this for me, he said.
 They looked at each other.
 Just tie it.
 The boy in the T-shirt stepped forward and knelt and knotted the sling. That arm dont look 
good, he said.
 Chigurh thumbed a bill out of the clip and put the clip back in his pocket and took the bill 
from between his teeth and got to his feet and held it out.
 Hell, mister. I dont mind helpin somebody out. That
s mine, the other boy said.
 You still got your damn shirt.
 That aint what it was for.
 That may be, but I
s truck the one in the T-shirt stopped the other with his hand. You see what I see? he 
said.
 Shit, the other one said.
 What they saw was Chigurh
m back here. Come on back.
 He walked through to the kitchen. The old man was sitting beside the table in his chair. The 
room smelled of old bacon-grease and stale woodsmoke from the stove and over it all lay a 
faint tang of urine. Like the smell of cats but it wasnt just cats. Bell stood in the doorway and 
took his hat off. The old man looked up at him. One clouded eye from a cholla spine where a 
horse had thrown him years ago. Hey, Ed Tom, he said. I didnt know who that was.
 How are you makin it?
 You
d wrote you a time or two.
 It
s all. Set down.
 The old man didnt watch to see if he would or he wouldnt. He fell to rolling himself a 
cigarette from a sack of tobacco at his elbow. He twisted the end in his mouth and turned it 
around and lit it with an old Zippo lighter worn through to the brass. He sat smoking, holding 
the cigarette pencilwise in his fingers.
 Are you all right? Bell said.
 I
s your biggest regret in life.
 The old man looked at him, gauging the question. I dont know, he said. I aint got all that 
many regrets. I could imagine lots of things that you might think would make a man happier. I 
reckon bein able to walk around might be one. You can make up your own list. You might 
even have one. I think by the time you
re as happy as you
ll 
have good times and bad times, but in the end you
ve knowed people that just never did get the hang of it.
 I know what you mean.
 I know you do.
 The old man smoked. If what you
s 
goin. But you might not. Or you might of been lied to. Probably nobody would blame you 
then. If you quit. But if it
s somethin else.
 Bell nodded.
 I guess some things are better not put to the test.
 I guess that
d have to do somethin that was pretty bad. It damn sure wouldnt be just 
cause things got a little rough. She
ll take your word 
on that, he said.
 Bell smiled. He looked around. How fresh is that coffee?
 I think it
s that?
 I said did you You
m done.
 The man that shot you died in prison.
 In Angola. Yes.
 What would you of done if he
m kindly surprised to hear you say that.
 You wear out, Ed Tom. All the time you spend tryin to get back what
s more goin out the door. After a while you just try and get a tourniquet on it. Your
 grandad never asked me to sign on as deputy with him. I done that my own self. Hell, I didnt 
have nothin else to do. Paid about the same as cowboyin. Anyway, you never know what 
worse luck your bad luck has saved you from. I was too young for one war and too old for the 
next one. But I seen what come out of it. You can be patriotic and still believe that some 
things cost more than what they
ll see. Maybe you done have.
 Bell didnt answer.
 I always thought when I got older that God would sort of come into my life in some way. He 
didnt. I dont blame him. If I was him I
s right. 
What made you think about Harold?
 I was readin some of your mother
s all. I just wondered what you 
remembered about him.
 Was they any letters from him?
 No.
 You think about your family. Try to make sense out of all that. I know what it did to my
 mother. She never got over it. I dont know what sense any of that makes either. You know 
that gospel song? We
m fine, Ed Tom.
 It aint no trouble.
 I know it.
 All right.
 Bell watched him. The old man stubbed out his cigarette in the lid. Bell tried to think about 
his life. Then he tried not to. You aint turned infidel have you Uncle Ellis?
 No. No. Nothin like that.
Do you think God knows what
s old cinco peso badge and his thumb-buster to the Rangers. I 
believe they got a museum. But I didnt know what to tell her. There
s all bull. I dont know who started that. He 
was shot down on his own porch in Hudspeth County.
 That
s settin in a rocker on the 
porch of this house and I
m doin here still knockin around. All them young people. We dont know where half of 
em is even buried at. You got to ask what was the good in all that. So I go back to that. How 
come people dont feel like this country has got a lot to answer for? They dont. You can say 
that the country is just the country, it dont actively do nothin, but that dont mean much. I seen 
a man shoot his pickup truck with a shotgun one time. He must of thought it done somethin. 
This country will kill you in a heartbeat and still people love it. You understand what I
d be the first one to tell you I
d say.
 Bell smiled. He got up and went to the sink. The old man turned the chair slightly to where he 
could see him. What are you doin? he said.
 I thought I
ll be here in the mornin.
 It wont take but a minute.
 The water from the tap was gypwater. He filled the sink and added a scoop of soap powder. 
Then he added another.
 I thought you used to have a television set in here.
 I used to have a lot of things.
 Why didnt you say somethin? I
d say I have, he said. I
ve found out about me?
 I
d have to think about that.
 No you wouldnt.
 What
s true.
 Bell sat with his elbows on the table and his hands folded together. His uncle watched him. I 
hope you aint fixin to make some terrible confession, he said. I might not want to hear it.
 Do you want to hear it?
 Yeah. Go ahead.
 All right.
 It aint of a sexual nature is it?
 No.
 That
s about bein a war hero.
 All right. Would that be you?
 Yeah. That
m tryin to. This is actually what happened. What got me that commendation.
 Go ahead.
 We was in a forward position monitorin radio signals and we was holed up in a farmhouse. 
Just a two room stone house. We
d been layin there. I was 
wet and cold and my ears was ringin and whenever I set up and looked the house was gone. 
Just part of the wall at one end was standin was all. A mortarshell had come through the wall 
and just blowed it all to hell. Well, I couldnt hear a thing. I couldnt hear the rain or nothin. If I 
said somethin I could hear it inside my head but that was all. I got up and walked over to 
where the house was and there was sections of the roof layin over a good part of it and I seen 
one of our men buried in them rocks and timbers and I tried to move some stuff to see if I 
couldnt get to him. My whole head just felt numb. And while I was doin that I raised up and 
looked out and here come these German riflemen across this field. They was comin out of a 
patch of woods about two hundred yards off and comin across this field. I still didnt know 
exactly what had happened. I was kindly in a daze. I crouched down there by the side of the 
wall and the first thing I seen was Wallace
d be too close. I scratched around and finally got that thing dug out, 
it and the tripod, and I dug around some more and come up with the ammo box for it and I got 
set up behind the section of wall there and jacked back the slide and pushed off the safety and 
here we went.
 It was hard to tell where the rounds was hittin on account of the ground bein wet but I knew I 
was doin some good. I emptied out about two feet of belt and I kept watchin out there and 
after it
s what they give me the Bronze Star for. The major that put me in for it was named 
McAllister and he was from Georgia. And I told him I didnt want it. And he just set there 
lookin at me and directly he said: I
re fixin to tell me what you done.
 Yessir.
 When it got dark.
 When it got dark. Yessir.
 What did you do?
 I cut and run.
 The old man thought about that. After a while he said: I got to assume that it seemed like a 
pretty good idea at the time.
 Yeah, Bell said. It did.
 What would of happened if you
d of come up in the dark and lobbed grenades in on me. Or maybe gone back up in the 
woods and called in another round.
 Yeah.
 Bell sat there with his hands crossed on the oilcloth. He looked at his uncle. The old man said: 
I aint sure what it is you
s what I have tried to 
do.
 They sat. After a while the old man said: Well, in all honesty I cant see it bein all that bad. 
Maybe you ought to ease up on yourself some.
 Maybe. But you go into battle it
re called on like that you have to make up your mind that 
you
d give my word to do then that
s the way it is. I should of done it and I didnt. And some part of me has 
never quit wishin I could go back. And I cant. I didnt know you could steal your own life. 
And I didnt know that it would bring you no more benefit than about anything else you might 
steal. I think I done the best with it I knew how but it still wasnt mine. It never has been.
 The old man sat for a long time. He was bent slightly forward looking at the floor. After a 
while he nodded. I think I know where this is goin, he said.
 Yessir.
 What do you think he would of done?
 I know what he would of done.
 Yeah. I guess I do too.
 He
s true. He looked up at Bell. What did you tell me for?
 I think I just needed to unload my wagon.
 You waited long enough about doin it.
 Yessir. Maybe I needed to hear it myself. I
m a man of this time.
 Or maybe this was just a practice run.
 Maybe.
 You aim to tell her?
 Yessir, I guess I do.
 Well.
 What do you think she
s some truth to that. But it aint the whole truth. I agreed with him that there wasnt 
a whole lot good you could say about old age and he said he knew one thing and I said what 
is that. And he said it dont last long. I waited for him to smile but he didnt. I said well, that
d say anyways, bless his heart. You care about people you try 
and lighten their load for em. Even when it
s what he
s right, it did come up. I think 
sometimes people would rather have a bad answer about things than no answer at all. When I 
told it, well it took a shape I would not have guessed it to have and in that way he was right 
too. It was like a ballplayer told me one time he said that if he had some slight injury and it 
bothered him a little bit, nagged at him, he generally played better. It kept his mind focused 
on one thing instead of a hundred. I can understand that. Not that it changes anything.
 I thought if I lived my life in the strictest way I knew how then I would not ever again have a 
thing that would eat on me thataway. I said that I was twenty-one years old and I was entitled 
to one mistake, particularly if I could learn from it and become the sort of man I had it in my 
mind to be. Well, I was wrong about all of that. Now I aim to quit and a good part of it is just 
knowin that I wont be called on to hunt this man. I reckon he
s a painful thing to know.
 One other thing he said. You
d think he
d still have to figure that he 
knew what he was doin. I dont know what other description of God you could have. So what 
you end up with is that those he has spoke to are the ones that must of needed it the worst. 
That
s letters to Harold. The reason she had them letters was that he had saved em. 
She was the one raised him and she was the same as his mother. Them letters was dogeared 
and tore and covered with mud and I dont know what all. The thing about them letters. Well 
for one thing you could tell they were just country people. I dont think he
ve told my deputies more than once that you fix what 
you can fix and you let the rest go. If there aint nothin to be done about it it aint even a 
problem. It
ve still got that medal of course. It come in a fancy purple box with a ribbon and all. It was 
in my bureau for years and then one day I took it out and put it in the drawer in the livin room 
table where I wouldnt have to look at it. Not that I ever looked at it, but it was there. Harold 
didnt get no medal. He just come home in a wooden box. And I dont believe they had Gold 
Star mothers in the First World War but if they had of Aunt Carolyn would not of got one of 
them either since he was not her natural son. But she should of. She never got his war pension 
neither.
 So. I went back out there one more time. I walked over that ground and there was very little 
sign that anything had ever took place there. I picked up a shellcasin or two. That was about 
it. I stood out there a long time and I thought about things. It was one of them warm days you 
get in the winter sometimes. A little wind. I still keep thinkin maybe it is somethin about the 
country. Sort of the way Ellis said. I thought about my family and about him out there in his 
wheelchair in the old house and it just seemed to me that this country has got a strange kind 
of history and a damned bloody one too. About anywhere you care to look. I could stand back 
off and smile about such thoughts as them but I still have em. I dont make excuses for the way 
I think. Not no more. I talk to my daughter. She would be thirty now. That
s all right. 
That
ll always get the best from her. It dont get mixed up with 
my own ignorance or my own meanness. I know how that sounds and I guess I
d say I
re feedin him under the door. That
d say more of it. I can use all 
the help I can get. Well, that
s a report we have here that is flagged with your name. It has to do with a woman 
named Carla Jean Moss that was murdered here back in March.
 Yessir. I appreciate you callin.
 They picked up the murder weapon off of the FBI ballistics database and they traced it down 
to a boy here in Midland. The boy says he got the gun out of a truck at a accident scene. Just 
seen it and took it. And I expect that
ll talk to you.
 That
ll talk to me. I
re you doin Ed Tom.
I aint braggin.
 What can I do you for.
 Bell told him about the wreck. Yessir, Catron said. Sure I remember it. There was two boys 
killed in that wreck. We still aint found the driver of the other vehicle.
 What happened?
 Boys
s porch. She was out puttin some mail in her box 
and he didnt miss her by much. She set off down the street in her housewrapper and 
haircurlers just a hollerin. I dont think she
d say you could. I
s his name?
 David DeMarco.
 Is he Mexican?
 No. The boys in the car was. Not him.
 Will he talk to me?
 One way to find out.
 I
ll take some coffee.
 Bell raised a finger and the waitress came over and took his order. He looked at the boy.
 What I wanted to talk to you about was the man that walked away from that wreck. I wonder 
if there
s full of it.
 Yeah? I talked to him this mornin and he seemed to me to be about as unfull of it as they 
come.
 The waitress brought the coffee. DeMarco poured about a quarter cup of sugar into his and sat 
stirring it.
 You know this man had just got done killin a woman two blocks away when he got in that 
wreck.
 Yeah. I didnt know it at the time.
You know how many people he
s all I know to tell you.
Bell sat watching him. Then he got up and put on his hat and left.
 In the morning he went to the high school and got some names from DeMarco
d found him. He was a big kid and he sat with 
his hands folded and looked down at his tennis shoes. They were about a size fourteen and 
had Left and Right written on the toecaps in purple ink.
 There
s idea even if it was. I
d do it different. I know that.
 What did he say.
 He said that we didnt know what he looked like. He give David a hundred dollar bill.
 A hundred dollars.
 Yeah. David give him his shirt. To make a sling for his arm.
 Bell nodded. All right. What did he look like.
 He was medium height. Medium build. Looked like he was in shape. In his mid thirties 
maybe. Dark hair. Dark brown, I think. I dont know, Sheriff. He looked like anybody.
 Like anybody.
The kid looked at his shoes. He looked up at Bell. He didnt look like anybody. I mean there 
wasnt nothin unusual lookin about him. But he didnt look like anybody you
s any use to you.
 It is. Do you think DeMarco learned anything?
 The boy shook his head. I dont know, he said. I cant speak for David.
 XI
 I got Molly to run down his relatives and we finally found his dad in San Saba. I left to go up 
there on a Friday evenin and I remember thinkin to myself when I left that this was probably 
another dumb thing I was fixin to do but I went anyways. I
d of set there from now on if I hadnt of said somethin. He was a bit oldern me. Ten years 
maybe. I told him what I
d all done things over there that they
re still havin problems. I thought it was because they didnt have the 
country behind em. But I think it might be worse than that even. The country they did have 
was in pieces. It still is. It wasnt the hippies
d sent em without rifles I dont know as 
they
re just too close to it. It
s work to see yourself for what you really are 
and even then you might be wrong. And that is somethin I dont want to be wrong about. I
ve 
tried to cultivate anything it
d of told em it was their own grandchildren? Well, all of that is signs and wonders 
but it dont tell you how it got that way. And it dont tell you nothin about how it
m bein asked to stand for somethin 
that I dont have the same belief in it I once did. Asked to believe in somethin I might not hold 
with the way I once did. That
ve seen it 
held to the light. Seen any number of believers fall away. I
ve been forced to look at myself. For better or for worse I do not know. I dont know that 
I would even advise you to throw in with me, and I never had them sorts of doubts before. If 
I
re six thousand dollars in debt over this job too and I dont know what 
I
re ahead? And I said no mam I just aim to quit. I aint ahead by a 
damn sight. I never will be. One other thing and then I
s two kinds of 
people that dont ask a lot of questions. One is too dumb to and the other dont need to. I
s in the bible. Is it the devil?
I dont know. I
s pretty much a ghost.
 Is he pretty much or is he one?
 No, he
ve thought about it since and I think the answer to his question is 
that when you encounter certain things in the world, the evidence for certain things, you 
realize that you have come upon somethin that you may very well not be equal to and I think 
that this is one of them things. When you
s real and not just in your head I
s all right. Dont you worry 
about it. We
s my heart yonder, he told the horse. It always was.
 They rode together out to Warner
m all right.
 Because of me though, aint it?
 She smiled. Well, she said, past a certain age I dont guess there is any such thing as good 
change.
 I guess we
ll be all right. I think I
ll bet she wishes he could come home now.
 I
ll bet I do, for that matter.
 I shouldnt ought to of said that.
 You didnt say nothin wrong.
 You
s my job.
 Bell smiled. You wouldnt tell me if I was in the wrong?
 Nope.
 What if I wanted you to?
 Tough.
He watched the little brindled desert doves come stooping in under the dull rose light. Is that 
true? he said.
 Pretty much. Not altogether.
 Is that a good idea?
 Well, she said. Whatever it was I expect you
d get over it.
 Where I might not.
 She smiled and put her hand on his. Put it up, she said. It
LL WAKE LORETTA UP just bein awake myself. Be layin there and she
m there. Sometimes I
ll 
set there in the dark. I wish I had her ease about things. The world I
re headed. We
s not even a law enforcement problem. I doubt that it ever was. 
There
ve heard about that aint you? Ever strata? You finally get into the sort of breakdown in 
mercantile ethics that leaves people settin around out in the desert dead in their vehicles and 
by then it
s always a 
question. Years back I dont remember that. I dont remember it when I was sheriff back in the 
fifties. You see em and they dont even look confused. They just look crazy. That bothers me. 
It
re at. Well, in a manner of 
speakin they dont.
At supper this evenin she told me she
ll find somethin in the bible so I asked her if Revelations had 
anything to say about the shape things was takin and she said she
s a good sign or not. Then she come around behind my 
chair and put her arms around my neck and bit me on the ear. She
d felt like this before but not in a long 
time and when he said that, then he knew what it was. It was defeat. It was being beaten. 
More bitter to him than death. You need to get over that, he said. Then he started the truck.
 XIII
 Where you went out the back door of that house there was a stone water trough in the weeds 
by the side of the house. A galvanized pipe come off the roof and the trough stayed pretty 
much full and I remember stoppin there one time and squattin down and lookin at it and I got 
to thinkin about it. I dont know how long it had been there. A hundred years. Two hundred. 
You could see the chisel marks in the stone. It was hewed out of solid rock and it was about 
six foot long and maybe a foot and a half wide and about that deep. Just chiseled out of the 
rock. And I got to thinkin about the man that done that. That country had not had a time of 
peace much of any length at all that I knew of. I
ve thought about it a good deal. I thought about it after I left there with 
that house blown to pieces. I
s what I would like most of all.
 The other thing is that I have not said much about my father and I know I have not done him 
justice. I
m lookin 
back at a younger man. He went on the road tradin horses when he was not much more than a 
boy. He told me the first time or two he got skinned pretty good but he learned. He said this 
trader one time he put his arm around him and he looked down at him and he told him, said: 
Son, I
ve seen him 
break a few and he knew what he was doin. Very easy on the horse. Talked to em a lot. He 
never broke nothin in me and I owe him more than I would of thought. As the world might 
look at it I suppose I was a better man. Bad as that sounds to say. Bad as that is to say. That 
has got to of been hard to live with. Let alone his daddy. He would never of made a lawman. 
He went to college I think two years but he never did finish. I
