My dear Mr. Bennet,
have you
 heard that Netherfield Park is let at last?
But it is,
for Mrs. Long has just been here, and she
 told me all about it.
Do you not want to know whohas taken it?
You want to tell me, and I have no objection to hearing it.
Why, mydear, you must know, Mrs. Long says that Netherfield is
 taken by a young man of large fortune from the north of England; that
 he came down on Monday in a chaise and four to see the place, and
 was so much delighted with it, that he agreed with Mr. Morris imme
diately; that he is to take possession before Michaelmas, and some of
 his servants are to be in the house by the end of next week.
What is his name?
Bingley.
Is he married or single?
Oh! Single, my dear, to be sure! A single man of large fortune;
 four or five thousand a year. What a fine thing for our girls!
Howso? Howcanitaffect them?
My dear Mr. Bennet,
how can you be so tire
some! YoumustknowthatIamthinkingofhismarryingoneofthem.
Is that his design in settling here?
Design! Nonsense, how can you talk so! But it is very likely that
 he may fall in love with one of them, and therefore you must visit him
 as soon as he comes.
I see no occasion for that. You and the girls may go, or you may
 send them by themselves, which perhaps will be still better, for as you
 are as handsome as any of them, Mr. Bingley may like you the best of
 the party.
My dear, you flatter me. I certainly have had my share of beauty,
 but I donotpretendtobeanythingextraordinarynow. Whenawoman
 has five grown-up daughters, she ought to give over thinking of her
 ownbeauty.
In such cases, a woman has not often much beauty to think of.
But, my dear, you must indeed go and see Mr. Bingley when he
 comes into the neighbourhood.
It is more than I engage for, I assure you.
But consider your daughters. Only think what an establishment it
 would be for one of them. Sir William and Lady Lucas are determined
 to go, merely on that account, for in general, you know, they visit no
 newcomers. Indeedyoumustgo,foritwillbeimpossible for us to visit
 him if you do not.
You are over-scrupulous, surely. I dare say Mr. Bingley will be
 very glad to see you; and I will send a few lines by you to assure him
 of myheartyconsenttohismarryingwhicheverhechoosesofthegirls;
 though I must throw in a good word for my little Lizzy.
I desire you will do no such thing. Lizzy is not a bit better than
 the others; and I am sure she is not half so handsome as Jane, nor half
 so good-humoured as Lydia. But you are always giving her the prefer
ence.
They have none of them much to recommend them,
they are all silly and ignorant like other girls; but Lizzy has something
 more of quickness than her sisters.
Mr. Bennet, how can you abuse your own children in such a way?
 You take delight in vexing me. You have no compassion for my poor
 nerves.
You mistake me, my dear. I have a high respect for your nerves.
 They are my old friends. I have heard you mention them with consid
eration these last twenty years at least.
Ah, you do not know what I suffer.
But I hope you will get over it, and live to see many young men of
 four thousand a year come into the neighbourhood.
It will be no use to us, if twenty such should come, since you will
 not visit them.
Depend upon it, my dear, that when there are twenty, I will visit
 them all.
I hope Mr. Bingley will like it, Lizzy.
We are not in a way to know what Mr. Bingley likes,
since we are not to visit.
But you forget, mamma,
that we shall meet him
 at the assemblies, and that Mrs. Long promised to introduce him.
I do not believe Mrs. Long will do any such thing. She has two
 nieces of her own. She is a selfish, hypocritical woman, and I have no
 opinion of her.
Nomorehave I,
and I am glad to find that you
 do not depend on her serving you.
Don’t keep coughing so, Kitty, for Heaven’s sake! Have a little
 compassion on my nerves. You tear them to pieces.
Kitty has no discretion in her coughs,
she times
 them ill.
I do not cough for my own amusement,
Whenis your next ball to be, Lizzy?
To-morrow fortnight.
Aye, so it is,
and Mrs. Long does not come
 3
back till the day before; so it will be impossible for her to introduce
 him, for she will not know him herself.
Then, my dear, you may have the advantage of your friend, and
 introduce Mr. Bingley to her.
Impossible, Mr. Bennet, impossible, when I am not acquainted
 with him myself; how can you be so teasing?
I honour your circumspection. A fortnight’s acquaintance is cer
tainly very little. One cannot know what a man really is by the end of
 a fortnight. But if we do not venture somebody else will; and after all,
 Mrs. Long and her daughters must stand their chance; and, therefore,
 as she will think it an act of kindness, if you decline the office, I will
 take it on myself.
Nonsense,
 nonsense!
Whatcanbethemeaningofthatemphaticexclamation?
Do you consider the forms of introduction, and the stress that is laid
 on them, as nonsense? I cannot quite agree with you there. What say
 you, Mary? For you are a young lady of deep reflection, I know, and
 read great books and make extracts.
While Mary is adjusting her ideas,
let us return to
 Mr. Bingley.
I am sick of Mr. Bingley,
I amsorrytohearthat; but whydidnotyoutellmethatbefore? IfI
 had knownasmuchthis morning I certainly would not have called on
 him. It is very unlucky; but as I have actually paid the visit, we cannot
 escape the acquaintance now.
Howgooditwasinyou,mydearMr.Bennet! ButIknewIshould
 persuade youatlast. I wassureyoulovedyourgirlstoowelltoneglect
 such an acquaintance. Well, how pleased I am! and it is such a good
 joke, too, that you should have gone this morning and never said a
 word about it till now.
Now, Kitty, you may coughasmuchasyouchoose,
What anexcellent father you have, girls!
I do not know how you will ever make him amends for his
 4
kindness; or me, either, for that matter. At our time of life it is not so
 pleasant, I can tell you, to be making newacquaintances every day; but
 for your sakes, we would do anything. Lydia, my love, though you are
 the youngest, I dare say Mr. Bingley will dance with you at the next
 ball.
Oh!
I am not afraid; for though I am the
 youngest, I’m the tallest.
If I can but see one of my daughters happily settled at Nether
f
 ield,
and all the others equally
 well married, I shall have nothing to wish for.
Come, Darcy,
I must have you dance. I hate to see you
 standing about by yourself in this stupid manner. You had muchbetter
 dance.
I certainly shall not. You know how I detest it, unless I am par
ticularly acquainted with my partner. At such an assembly as this it
 would be insupportable. Your sisters are engaged, and there is not an
other woman in the room whom it would not be a punishment to me
 to stand up with.
I would not be so fastidious as you are,
for a
 kingdom! Upon my honour, I never met with so many pleasant girls
 in mylife as I have this evening; and there are several of them you see
 uncommonly pretty.
You are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room,
Oh! She is the most beautiful creature I ever beheld! But there is
 one of her sisters sitting down just behind you, who is very pretty, and
 I dare say very agreeable. Do let me ask my partner to introduce you.
Whichdoyoumean?
She is tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt me; I aminnohu
mour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted
 by other men. You had better return to your partner and enjoy her
 smiles, for you are wasting your time with me.
Oh! my dear Mr. Bennet,
we have had
 a most delightful evening, a most excellent ball. I wish you had been
 there. Jane was so admired, nothing could be like it. Everybody said
 howwell she looked; and Mr. Bingley thought her quite beautiful, and
 danced with her twice! Only think of that, my dear; he actually danced
 with hertwice! andshewastheonlycreatureintheroomthatheasked
 a second time. First of all, he asked Miss Lucas. I was so vexed to see
 him stand up with her! But, however, he did not admire her at all;
 indeed, nobody can, you know; and he seemed quite struck with Jane
 as she was going down the dance. So he inquired who she was, and
 got introduced, and asked her for the two next. Then the two third
 he danced with Miss King, and the two fourth with Maria Lucas, and
 the two fifth with Jane again, and the two sixth with Lizzy, and the
 Boulanger—
If he had had any compassion for me,
he would not have danced half so much! For God’s sake, say
 no more of his partners. O that he had sprained his ankle in the first
 place!
Oh! my dear, I am quite delighted with him. He is so excessively
 handsome! And his sisters are charming women. I never in my life
 saw anything more elegant than their dresses. I dare say the lace upon
 Mrs. Hurst’s gown—
But I can assure you,
that Lizzy does not lose much
 by not suiting his fancy; for he is a most disagreeable, horrid man, not
 at all worth pleasing. So high and so conceited that there was no en
during him! Hewalkedhere, andhewalkedthere, fancying himself so
 very great! Not handsome enough to dance with! I wish you had been
 there, my dear, to have given him one of your set-downs. I quite detest
 the man.
He is just what a young man ought to be,
sensible,
 good-humoured, lively; and I never saw such happy manners!—so
 muchease, with such perfect good breeding!
He is also handsome,
which a young man
 ought likewise to be, if he possibly can. His character is thereby com
plete.
I wasverymuchflatteredbyhisaskingmetodanceasecondtime.
 I did not expect such a compliment.
Didnotyou? Ididforyou. Butthatisonegreatdifferencebetween
 us. Compliments always take you by surprise, and me never. What
 could be more natural than his asking you again? He could not help
 seeing that you were about five times as pretty as every other woman
 in the room. No thanks to his gallantry for that. Well, he certainly is
 very agreeable, and I give you leave to like him. You have liked many
 a stupider person.
Dear Lizzy!
Oh! you are a great deal too apt, you know, to like people in gen
eral. You never see a fault in anybody. All the world are good and
 agreeable in your eyes. I never heard you speak ill of a human being
 in your life.
I would not wish to be hasty in censuring anyone; but I always
 speak what I think.
I know you do; and it is that which makes the wonder. With your
 goodsense,tobesohonestlyblindtothefolliesandnonsenseofothers!
 Affectation of candour is common enough—one meets with it every
where. But to be candid without ostentation or design—to take the
 good of everybody’s character and make it still better, and say nothing
 of the bad—belongs to you alone. And so you like this man’s sisters,
 too, do you? Their manners are not equal to his.
Certainly not—at first. But they are very pleasing women when
 you converse with them. Miss Bingley is to live with her brother, and
 keep his house; and I am much mistaken if we shall not find a very
 charming neighbour in her.
Youbegantheeveningwell,Charlotte,
You were Mr. Bingley’s first choice.
Yes; but he seemed to like his second better.
Oh! you mean Jane, I suppose, because he danced with her twice.
 Tobesurethatdidseemasifheadmiredher—indeedIratherbelievehe
 did—I heard something about it—but I hardly know what—something
 about Mr. Robinson.
Perhaps you mean what I overheard between him and Mr. Robin
son; did not I mention it to you? Mr. Robinson’s asking him how he
 liked our Merytonassemblies, andwhetherhedidnotthinktherewere
 a great manyprettywomenintheroom,andwhichhethoughtthepret
tiest? and his answering immediately to the last question: ‘Oh! the
 eldest Miss Bennet, beyond a doubt; there cannot be two opinions on
 that point.’
Uponmyword! Well,thatisverydecidedindeed—thatdoesseem
 as if—but, however, it may all come to nothing, you know.
Myoverhearings weremoretothepurposethanyours, Eliza,
Mr. Darcy is not so well worth listening to as his friend, is
 he?—poor Eliza!—to be only just tolerable.
I beg you would not put it into Lizzy’s head to be vexed by his
 ill-treatment, for he is such a disagreeable man, that it would be quite
 a misfortune to be liked by him. Mrs. Long told me last night that he
 sat close to her for half-an-hour without once opening his lips.
Are you quite sure, ma’am?—is not there a little mistake?
I certainly saw Mr. Darcy speaking to her.
Aye—because she asked him at last how he liked Netherfield, and
 he could not help answering her; but she said he seemed quite angry
 at being spoke to.
Miss Bingley told me,
that he never speaks much, un
less among his intimate acquaintances. With them he is remarkably
 agreeable.
I do not believe a word of it, my dear. If he had been so very
 agreeable, he would have talked to Mrs. Long. But I can guess how
 it was; everybody says that he is eat up with pride, and I dare say he
 had heard somehow that Mrs. Long does not keep a carriage, and had
 come to the ball in a hack chaise.
I do not mind his not talking to Mrs. Long,
but
 I wish he had danced with Eliza.
Another time, Lizzy,
I would not dance with
 him, if I were you.
I believe, ma’am, I may safely promise you never to dance with
 12
him.
His pride,
does not offend me so much as pride
 often does, because there is an excuse for it. One cannot wonder that so
 very fine a young man, with family, fortune, everything in his favour,
 should think highly of himself. If I may so express it, he has a right to
 be proud.
That is very true,
and I could easily forgive
 his pride, if he had not mortified mine.
Pride,
is a very common failing, I believe. By all that I have
 ever read, I am convinced that it is very common indeed; that human
 nature is particularly prone to it, and that there are very few of us who
 do not cherish a feeling of self-complacency on the score of some qual
ity or other, real or imaginary. Vanity and pride are different things,
 though the words are often used synonymously. A person may be
 proud without being vain. Pride relates more to our opinion of our
selves, vanity to what we would have others think of us.
If I were as rich as Mr. Darcy,
I should not care how proud I was. I would keep a
 pack of foxhounds, and drink a bottle of wine a day.
Then you would drink a great deal more than you ought,
and if I were to see you at it, I should take away your
 bottle directly.
It may perhaps be pleasant,
to be able to im
pose on the public in such a case; but it is sometimes a disadvantage to
 be so very guarded. If a woman conceals her affection with the same
 skill from the object of it, she may lose the opportunity of fixing him;
 and it will then be but poor consolation to believe the world equally
 in the dark. There is so much of gratitude or vanity in almost every
 attachment, that it is not safe to leave any to itself. We can all begin
 freely—a slight preference is natural enough; but there are very few of
 us whohaveheartenoughtobereally in love without encouragement.
 In nine cases out of ten a women had better show more affection than
 she feels. Bingley likes your sister undoubtedly; but he may never do
 more than like her, if she does not help him on.
But she does help him on, as much as her nature will allow. If I
 can perceive her regard for him, he must be a simpleton, indeed, not to
 discover it too.
Remember, Eliza, that he does not know Jane’s disposition as you
 do.
But if a woman is partial to a man, and does not endeavour to
 conceal it, he must find it out.
Perhaps he must, if he sees enough of her. But, though Bingley
 and Jane meet tolerably often, it is never for many hours together; and,
 as they always see each other in large mixed parties, it is impossible
 that every moment should be employed in conversing together. Jane
 should therefore make the most of every half-hour in which she can
 command his attention. When she is secure of him, there will be more
 leisure for falling in love as much as she chooses.
Your plan is a good one,
where nothing is in
 question but the desire of being well married, and if I were determined
 to get a rich husband, or any husband, I dare say I should adopt it.
 But these are not Jane’s feelings; she is not acting by design. As yet,
 she cannot even be certain of the degree of her own regard nor of its
 reasonableness. She has known him only a fortnight. She danced four
 dances with him at Meryton; she saw him one morning at his own
 house, and has since dined with him in company four times. This is
 14
not quite enough to make her understand his character.
Not as yourepresent it. Had she merely dined with him, she might
 only have discovered whether he had a good appetite; but you must
 remember that four evenings have also been spent together—and four
 evenings may do a great deal.
Yes; these four evenings have enabled them to ascertain that they
 both like Vingt-un better than Commerce; but with respect to any other
 leading characteristic, I do not imagine that much has been unfolded.
Well,
I wish Jane success with all my heart; and
 if she were married to him to-morrow, I should think she had as good
 a chance of happiness as if she were to be studying his character for
 a twelvemonth. Happiness in marriage is entirely a matter of chance.
 If the dispositions of the parties are ever so well known to each other
 or ever so similar beforehand, it does not advance their felicity in the
 least. They always continue to grow sufficiently unlike afterwards to
 have their share of vexation; and it is better to know as little as possible
 of the defects of the person with whom you are to pass your life.
You make melaugh, Charlotte; but it is not sound. You know it is
 not sound, and that you would never act in this way yourself.
What does Mr. Darcy mean,
by listening
 to myconversation with Colonel Forster?
That is a question which Mr. Darcy only can answer.
But if he does it any more I shall certainly let him know that I see
 what he is about. He has a very satirical eye, and if I do not begin by
 being impertinent myself, I shall soon grow afraid of him.
Didyounotthink,Mr.Darcy,thatIexpressedmyselfuncommonly
 well just now, when I was teasing Colonel Forster to give us a ball at
 Meryton?
With great energy; but it is always a subject which makes a lady
 energetic.
You are severe on us.
It will be her turn soon to be teased,
I am going
 to open the instrument, Eliza, and you know what follows.
You are a very strange creature by way of a friend!—always want
ing me to play and sing before anybody and everybody! If my vanity
 had taken a musical turn, you would have been invaluable; but as it
 is, I would really rather not sit down before those who must be in the
 habit of hearing the very best performers.
Very well, if it must be so, it must.
There is a fine old saying, which every
body here is of course familiar with: ‘Keep your breath to cool your
 porridge’; and I shall keep mine to swell my song.
What a charming amusement for young people this is, Mr. Darcy!
 There is nothing like dancing after all. I consider it as one of the first
 refinements of polished society.
Certainly, sir; and it has the advantage also of being in vogue
 amongst the less polished societies of the world. Every savage can
 dance.
Your friend performs delightfully,
and I doubt
 not that you are an adept in the science yourself, Mr. Darcy.
You saw medance at Meryton, I believe, sir.
Yes, indeed, and received no inconsiderable pleasure from the
 sight. Do you often dance at St. James’s?
Never, sir.
Do younot think it would be a proper compliment to the place?
It is a compliment which I never pay to any place if I can avoid it.
You have a house in town, I conclude?
I had once had some thought of fixing in town myself—for I am
 fond of superior society; but I did not feel quite certain that the air of
 London would agree with Lady Lucas.
My dear Miss Eliza, why are you not dancing? Mr. Darcy, you
 must allow me to present this young lady to you as a very desirable
 partner. You cannot refuse to dance, I am sure when so much beauty
 is before you.
Indeed, sir, I have not the least intention of dancing. I entreat you
 not to suppose that I moved this way in order to beg for a partner.
You excel so much in the dance, Miss Eliza, that it is cruel to deny
 methehappinessofseeingyou; andthoughthisgentlemandislikesthe
 17
amusement in general, he can have no objection, I am sure, to oblige
 us for one half-hour.
Mr. Darcy is all politeness,
He is, indeed; but, considering the inducement, my dear Miss
 Eliza, we cannot wonder at his complaisance—for who would object
 to such a partner?
I can guess the subject of your reverie.
I should imagine not.
You are considering how insupportable it would be to pass many
 evenings in this manner—in such society; and indeed I am quite of
 your opinion. I was never more annoyed! The insipidity, and yet the
 noise—thenothingness, andyettheself-importanceofallthosepeople!
 What would I give to hear your strictures on them!
You conjecture is totally wrong, I assure you. My mind was more
 agreeably engaged. I have been meditating on the very great pleasure
 which a pair of fine eyes in the face of a pretty woman can bestow.
Miss Elizabeth Bennet.
Miss Elizabeth Bennet!
I am all astonish
ment. Howlong has she been such a favourite?—and pray, when am I
 to wish you joy?
That is exactly the question which I expected you to ask. A lady’s
 imagination is very rapid; it jumps from admiration to love, from love
 to matrimony, in a moment. I knew you would be wishing me joy.
Nay, if you are serious about it, I shall consider the matter is ab
solutely settled. You will be having a charming mother-in-law, indeed;
 and, of course, she will always be at Pemberley with you.
From all that I can collect by your manner of talking, you must be
 two of the silliest girls in the country. I have suspected it some time,
 but I am nowconvinced.
I am astonished, my dear,
that you should be
 so ready to think your own children silly. If I wished to think slight
ingly of anybody’s children, it should not be of my own, however.
If my children are silly, I must hope to be always sensible of it.
Yes—but as it happens, they are all of them very clever.
This is the only point, I flatter myself, on which we do not agree.
 I had hoped that our sentiments coincided in every particular, but I
 must so far differ from you as to think our two youngest daughters
 uncommonly foolish.
My dear Mr. Bennet, you must not expect such girls to have the
 sense of their father and mother. When they get to our age, I dare say
 they will not think about officers any more than we do. I rememberthe
 time whenIlikedaredcoatmyselfverywell—and, indeed, soIdostill
 at my heart; and if a smart young colonel, with five or six thousand a
 year, should want one of my girls I shall not say nay to him; and I
 thought Colonel Forster looked very becoming the other night at Sir
 William’s in his regimentals.
Mamma,
my aunt says that Colonel Forster and
 Captain Carter do not go so often to Miss Watson’s as they did when
 they first came; she sees them now very often standing in Clarke’s li
brary.
Well, Jane, who is it from? What is it about? What does he say?
 Well, Jane, make haste and tell us; make haste, my love.
It is from Miss Bingley,
Mydear friend,—
 “If you are not so compassionate as to dine to-day with Louisa and
 me, we shall be in danger of hating each other for the rest of our lives,
 for a whole day’s tˆete-` a-tˆ ete between two women can never end with
out a quarrel. Come as soon as you can on receipt of this. My brother
 and the gentlemen are to dine with the officers.—Yours ever,
 “Caroline Bingley
With the officers!
I wonder my aunt did not tell us
 of that.
Dining out,
that is very unlucky.
Can I have the carriage?
No, my dear, you had better go on horseback, because it seems
 likely to rain; and then you must stay all night.
That would be a good scheme,
if you were sure
 that they would not offer to send her home.
Oh! but the gentlemen will have Mr. Bingley’s chaise to go to
 Meryton, and the Hursts have no horses to theirs.
I had much rather go in the coach.
But, my dear, your father cannot spare the horses, I am sure. They
 are wanted in the farm, Mr. Bennet, are they not?
They are wanted in the farm much oftener than I can get them.
But if you have got them to-day,
my mother’s
 purpose will be answered.
This was a lucky idea of mine, indeed!
Mydearest Lizzy,—
 “I find myself very unwell this morning, which, I suppose, is to be
 imputedtomygettingwetthroughyesterday. Mykindfriendswillnot
 hear of my returning till I am better. They insist also on my seeing Mr.
 Jones—therefore do not be alarmed if you should hear of his having
 been to me—and, excepting a sore throat and headache, there is not
 muchthe matter with me.—Yours, etc.
Well, my dear,
if your daughter should have a dangerous fit of illness—if she
 should die, it would be a comfort to know that it was all in pursuit of
 Mr. Bingley, and under your orders.
Oh! I amnotafraid of her dying. People do not die of little trifling
 colds. She will be taken good care of. As long as she stays there, it is
 all very well. I would go and see her if I could have the carriage.
How can you be so silly,
as to think of such a
 thing, in all this dirt! You will not be fit to be seen when you get there.
I shall be very fit to see Jane—which is all I want.
Is this a hint to me, Lizzy,
tosendforthehorses?
No, indeed, I do not wish to avoid the walk. The distance is noth
ing whenonehasamotive;onlythreemiles. Ishallbebackbydinner.
I admire the activity of your benevolence,
but
 every impulse of feeling should be guided by reason; and, in my opin
ion, exertion should always be in proportion to what is required.
Wewill go as far as Meryton with you,
If we make haste,
perhaps we
 maysee something of Captain Carter before he goes.
She has nothing, in short, to recommend her, but being an excel
lent walker. I shall never forget her appearance this morning. She re
ally looked almost wild.
She did, indeed, Louisa. I could hardly keep my countenance.
 Very nonsensical to come at all! Why mustshebescamperingaboutthe
 country, because her sister had a cold? Her hair, so untidy, so blowsy!
Yes, and her petticoat; I hope you saw her petticoat, six inches
 deep in mud, I am absolutely certain; and the gown which had been
 let down to hide it not doing its office.
Your picture may be very exact, Louisa,
but this
 was all lost upon me. I thought Miss Elizabeth Bennet looked remark
ably well when she came into the room this morning. Her dirty petti
coat quite escaped my notice.
You observed it, Mr. Darcy, I am sure,
and I
 am inclined to think that you would not wish to see your sister make
 such an exhibition.
Certainly not.
To walk three miles, or four miles, or five miles, or whatever it
 is, above her ankles in dirt, and alone, quite alone! What could she
 mean by it? It seems to me to show an abominable sort of conceited
 independence, a most country-town indifference to decorum.
It shows an affection for her sister that is very pleasing,
I am afraid, Mr. Darcy,
that this adventure has rather affected your admiration of her fine
 eyes.
Not at all,
they were brightened by the exercise.
I have a excessive regard for Miss Jane Bennet, she is really a very
 sweet girl, and I wish with all my heart she were well settled. But with
 such a father and mother, and such low connections, I am afraid there
 is no chance of it.
I think I have heard you say that their uncle is an attorney on
 Meryton.
Yes; and they have another, who lives somewhere near Cheap
side.
That is capital,
If they had uncles enough to fill all Cheapside,
it
 would not make them one jot less agreeable.
But it must very materially lessen their chance of marrying men of
 any consideration in the world,
Doyouprefer reading to cards?
that is rather singular.
Miss Eliza Bennet,
despises cards. She is a
 great reader, and has no pleasure in anything else.
I deserve neither such praise nor such censure,
I
 amnot a great reader, and I have pleasure in many things.
In nursing your sister I am sure you have pleasure,
and I hope it will be soon increased by seeing her quite well.
AndIwishmycollection werelarger for your benefit and myown
 credit; but I am anidle fellow, and thoughIhavenotmany, Ihavemore
 than I ever looked into.
I am astonished,
that my father should have
 left so small a collection of books. What a delightful library you have
 at Pemberley, Mr. Darcy!
It ought to be good,
it has been the work of many
 generations.
And then you have added so much to it yourself, you are always
 25
buying books.
I cannot comprehend the neglect of a family library in such days
 as these.
Neglect! I amsureyouneglectnothingthatcanaddtothebeauties
 of that noble place. Charles, when you build your house, I wish it may
 be half as delightful as Pemberley.
I wish it may.
ButIwouldreallyadviseyoutomakeyourpurchaseinthatneigh
bourhood, and take Pemberley for a kind of model. There is not a finer
 county in England than Derbyshire.
With all my heart; I will buy Pemberley itself if Darcy will sell it.
I am talking of possibilities, Charles.
Upon my word, Caroline, I should think it more possible to get
 Pemberley by purchase than by imitation.
Is Miss Darcy much grown since the spring?
will she be as tall as I am?
I think she will. She is now about Miss Elizabeth Bennet’s height,
 or rather taller.
How I long to see her again! I never met with anybody who de
lighted me so much. Such a countenance, such manners! And so ex
tremely accomplished for her age! Her performance on the pianoforte
 is exquisite.
It is amazing to me,
how young ladies can have
 patience to be so very accomplished as they all are.
All young ladies accomplished! My dear Charles, what do you
 mean?
Yes, all of them, I think. They all paint tables, cover screens, and
 net purses. I scarcely know anyone who cannot do all this, and I am
 sure I never heard a young lady spoken of for the first time, without
 being informed that she was very accomplished.
Your list of the common extent of accomplishments,
has too much truth. The word is applied to many a woman who de
serves it no otherwise than by netting a purse or covering a screen.
 But I am very far from agreeing with you in your estimation of ladies
 in general. I cannot boast of knowing more than half-a-dozen, in the
 whole range of my acquaintance, that are really accomplished.
Nor I, I am sure,
Then,
you must comprehend a great deal in
 your idea of an accomplished woman.
Yes, I do comprehend a great deal in it.
Oh! certainly,
no one can be really
 esteemed accomplished who does not greatly surpass what is usu
ally met with. A woman must have a thorough knowledge of music,
 singing, drawing, dancing, and the modern languages, to deserve the
 word; and besides all this, she must possess a certain something in her
 air and manner of walking, the tone of her voice, her address and ex
pressions, or the word will be but half-deserved.
All this she must possess,
and to all this she must
 yet add something more substantial, in the improvement of her mind
 by extensive reading.
I am no longer surprised at your knowing only six accomplished
 women. I rather wonder now at your knowing any.
Are you so severe upon your own sex as to doubt the possibility
 of all this?
I never saw such a woman. I never saw such capacity, and taste,
 and application, and elegance, as you describe united.
Elizabeth Bennet,
is one of those young ladies who seek to recommend themselves
 to the other sex by undervaluing their own; andwithmanymen,Idare
 say, it succeeds. But, in my opinion, it is a paltry device, a very mean
 art.
Undoubtedly,
there is a meanness in all the arts which ladies sometimes
 condescend to employ for captivation. Whatever bears affinity to cun
ning is despicable.
Indeed I have, sir,
She is a great deal too ill to
 be moved. Mr. Jones says we must not think of moving her. We must
 trespass a little longer on your kindness.
Removed!
It must not be thought of. My sister, I
 amsure, will not hear of her removal.
You may depend upon it, Madam,
that Miss Bennet will receive every possible attention while
 she remains with us.
I amsure,
if it was not for such good friends I do not
 knowwhatwouldbecomeofher, for she is very ill indeed, and suffers
 a vast deal, though with the greatest patience in the world, which is
 always the way with her, for she has, without exception, the sweetest
 temper I have ever met with. I often tell my other girls they are noth
ing to her. You have a sweet room here, Mr. Bingley, and a charming
 prospect over the gravel walk. I do not know a place in the country
 that is equal to Netherfield. You will not think of quitting it in a hurry,
 I hope, though you have but a short lease.
Whatever I do is done in a hurry,
and therefore if
 I should resolve to quit Netherfield, I should probably be off in five
 minutes. At present, however, I consider myself as quite fixed here.
That is exactly what I should have supposed of you,
You begin to comprehend me, do you?
Oh! yes—I understand you perfectly.
I wish I might take this for a compliment; but to be so easily seen
 through I am afraid is pitiful.
That is as it happens. It does not follow that a deep, intricate char
acter is more or less estimable than such a one as yours.
Lizzy,
remember where you are, and do not
 run on in the wild manner that you are suffered to do at home.
I did not know before,
that you
 were a studier of character. It must be an amusing study.
Yes, but intricate characters are the most amusing. They have at
 least that advantage.
The country,
can in general supply but a few sub
jects for such a study. In a country neighbourhood you move in a very
 confined and unvarying society.
But people themselves alter so much, that there is something new
 to be observed in them for ever.
Yes, indeed,
I assure you there is quite as much
 of that going on in the country as in town.
I cannotseethatLondonhasanygreatadvantageoverthecountry,
 for my part, except the shops and public places. The country is a vast
 deal pleasanter, is it not, Mr. Bingley?
When I am in the country,
I never wish to leave it;
 and when I am in town it is pretty much the same. They have each
 their advantages, and I can be equally happy in either.
Aye—that is because you have the right disposition. But that gen
tleman,
seemed to think the country was nothing
 at all.
Indeed, Mamma, you are mistaken,
You quite mistook Mr. Darcy. He only meant that there
 wasnot such avariety of people to be met with in the country as in the
 town, which you must acknowledge to be true.
Certainly, my dear, nobody said there were; but as to not meeting
 with manypeopleinthisneighbourhood, Ibelievethere are fewneigh
bourhoods larger. I know we dine with four-and-twenty families.
Yes, she called yesterday with her father. What an agreeable man
 Sir William is, Mr. Bingley, is not he? So much the man of fashion! So
 genteel and easy! He had always something to say to everybody. That
 is my idea of good breeding; and those persons who fancy themselves
 very important, and never open their mouths, quite mistake the mat
ter.
Did Charlotte dine with you?
No, she would gohome. Ifancy she waswanted about the mince
pies. For my part, Mr. Bingley, I always keep servants that can do their
 own work; my daughters are brought up very differently. But every
bodyistojudgefor themselves, and the Lucases are averygoodsortof
 girls, I assure you. It is a pity they are not handsome! Not that I think
 Charlotte so very plain—but then she is our particular friend.
She seems a very pleasant young woman.
Oh! dear, yes; but you must own she is very plain. Lady Lucas
 herself has often said so, and envied me Jane’s beauty. I do not like
 to boast of my own child, but to be sure, Jane—one does not often
 see anybody better looking. It is what everybody says. I do not trust
 myownpartiality. When she was only fifteen, there was a man at my
 brother Gardiner’s in town so much in love with her that my sister-in
law was sure he would make her an offer before we came away. But,
 however, he did not. Perhaps he thought her too young. However, he
 wrote some verses on her, and very pretty they were.
And so ended his affection,
There
 has been many a one, I fancy, overcome in the same way. I wonder
 whofirst discovered the efficacy of poetry in driving away love!
I havebeenusedtoconsiderpoetryasthefoodoflove,
Of a fine, stout, healthy love it may. Everything nourishes what is
 strong already. But if it be only a slight, thin sort of inclination, I am
 convinced that one good sonnet will starve it entirely away.
I am perfectly ready, I assure you, to keep my engagement; and
 when your sister is recovered, you shall, if you please, name the very
 day of the ball. But you would not wish to be dancing when she is ill.
Oh! yes—it would be much better
 to wait till Jane was well, and by that time most likely Captain Carter
 would be at Meryton again. And when you have given your ball,
Ishallinsist ontheir giving onealso. Ishalltell Colonel Forster
 it will be quite a shame if he does not.
Howdelighted Miss Darcy will be to receive such a letter!
You write uncommonly fast.
You are mistaken. I write rather slowly.
How many letters you must have occasion to write in the course
 of a year! Letters of business, too! How odious I should think them!
It is fortunate, then, that they fall to my lot instead of yours.
Pray tell your sister that I long to see her.
I have already told her so once, by your desire.
I am afraid you do not like your pen. Let me mend it for you. I
 mendpens remarkably well.
Thank you—but I always mend my own.
Howcanyoucontrive to write so even?
Tell your sister I am delighted to hear of her improvement on the
 harp; and pray let her know that I am quite in raptures with her beau
tiful little design for a table, and I think it infinitely superior to Miss
 Grantley’s.
Will you give me leave to defer your raptures till I write again? At
 present I have not room to do them justice.
Oh! it is of no consequence. I shall see her in January. But do you
 always write such charming long letters to her, Mr. Darcy?
They are generally long; but whether always charming it is not for
 meto determine.
It is a rule with me, that a person who can write a long letter with
 ease, cannot write ill.
That will not do for a compliment to Darcy, Caroline,
because he does not write with ease. He studies too much for
 words of four syllables. Do not you, Darcy?
Mystyle of writing is very different from yours.
Oh!
Charles writes in the most careless way
 imaginable. He leaves out half his words, and blots the rest.
My ideas flow so rapidly that I have not time to express them—
 by which means my letters sometimes convey no ideas at all to my
 correspondents.
Your humility, Mr. Bingley,
must disarm re
proof.
Nothing is more deceitful,
than the appearance of
 humility. It is often only carelessness of opinion, and sometimes an
 indirect boast.
And which of the two do you call my little recent piece of mod
esty?
The indirect boast; for you are really proud of your defects in
 writing, because you consider them as proceeding from a rapidity of
 thought and carelessness of execution, which, if not estimable, you
 think at least highly interesting. The power of doing anything with
 quickness is always prized much by the possessor, and often with
out any attention to the imperfection of the performance. When you
 told Mrs. Bennet this morning that if you ever resolved upon quitting
 Netherfield you should be gone in five minutes, you meant it to be a
 sort of panegyric, of compliment to yourself—and yet what is there so
 very laudable in a precipitance which must leave very necessary busi
ness undone, and can be of no real advantage to yourself or anyone
 else?
Nay,
this is too much, to remember at night all
 the foolish things that were said in the morning. And yet, upon my
 honour, I believe what I said of myself to be true, and I believe it at this
 moment. At least, therefore, I did not assume the character of needless
 precipitance merely to show off before the ladies.
I dare say you believed it; but I am by no means convinced that
 you wouldbegonewith such celerity. Your conduct would be quite as
 33
dependent on chance as that of any man I know; and if, as you were
 mounting your horse, a friend were to say, ‘Bingley, you had better
 stay till next week,’ you would probably do it, you would probably
 not go—and at another word, might stay a month.
You have only proved by this,
that Mr. Bingley
 did not dojustice to his own disposition. You have shown him off now
 muchmorethan he did himself.
I am exceedingly gratified,
by your converting
 whatmyfriendsaysintoacomplimentonthesweetnessofmytemper.
 But I am afraid you are giving it a turn which that gentleman did by
 no means intend; for he would certainly think better of me, if under
 such a circumstance I were to give a flat denial, and ride off as fast as I
 could.
Would Mr. Darcy then consider the rashness of your original in
tentions as atoned for by your obstinacy in adhering to it?
Upon my word, I cannot exactly explain the matter; Darcy must
 speak for himself.
You expect me to account for opinions which you choose to call
 mine, but which I have never acknowledged. Allowing the case, how
ever, to stand according to your representation, you must remember,
 Miss Bennet, that the friend who is supposed to desire his return to the
 house, andthe delay of his plan, has merely desired it, asked it without
 offering one argument in favour of its propriety.
To yield readily—easily—to the persuasion of a friend is no merit
 with you.
To yield without conviction is no compliment to the understand
ing of either.
You appear to me, Mr. Darcy, to allow nothing for the influence of
 friendship and affection. A regard for the requester would often make
 one readily yield to a request, without waiting for arguments to rea
son one into it. I am not particularly speaking of such a case as you
 have supposed about Mr. Bingley. We may as well wait, perhaps, till
 the circumstance occurs before we discuss the discretion of his behav
iour thereupon. But in general and ordinary cases between friend and
 friend, where one of them is desired by the other to change a resolu
tion of no very great moment, should you think ill of that person for
 complying with the desire, without waiting to be argued into it?
Will it not be advisable, before we proceed on this subject, to
 arrange with rather more precision the degree of importance which is
 to appertain to this request, as well as the degree of intimacy subsisting
 between the parties?
By all means,
let us hear all the particulars, not
 forgetting their comparative height and size; for that will have more
 weight in the argument, Miss Bennet, than you may be aware of. I as
sure you, that if Darcy were not such a great tall fellow, in comparison
 with myself, I should not pay him half so much deference. I declare I
 do not know a more awful object than Darcy, on particular occasions,
 and in particular places; at his own house especially, and of a Sunday
 evening, when he has nothing to do.
I see your design, Bingley,
You dislike an argu
ment, and want to silence this.
Perhaps I do. Arguments are too much like disputes. If you and
 Miss Bennet will defer yours till I am out of the room, I shall be very
 thankful; and then you may say whatever you like of me.
Whatyouask,
is no sacrifice on my side; and Mr.
 Darcy had much better finish his letter.
Do not you feel a great inclination, Miss Bennet, to seize such an
 opportunity of dancing a reel?
Oh!
I heard you before, but I could not immediately
 determine what to say in reply. You wanted me, I know, to say ‘Yes,’
 that you might have the pleasure of despising my taste; but I always
 delight in overthrowing those kind of schemes, and cheating a person
 of their premeditated contempt. I have, therefore, made up my mind
 to tell you, that I do not want to dance a reel at all—and now despise
 meif you dare.
Indeed I do not dare.
I hope,
you will give your mother-in-law a few hints, when this
 desirable event takes place, as to the advantage of holding her tongue;
 andif youcancompassit, dosuretheyoungergirlsofrunningafterof
f
 icers. And, if I may mention so delicate a subject, endeavour to check
 that little something, bordering on conceit and impertinence, which
 your lady possesses.
Have you anything else to propose for my domestic felicity?
Oh! yes. Do let the portraits of your uncle and aunt Phillips be
 placed in the gallery at Pemberley. Put them next to your great-uncle
 the judge. They are in the same profession, you know, only in different
 lines. As for your Elizabeth’s picture, you must not have it taken, for
 what painter could do justice to those beautiful eyes?
It would not be easy, indeed, to catch their expression, but their
 colour and shape, and the eyelashes, so remarkably fine, might be
 copied.
I did not know that you intended to walk,
You used us abominably ill,
running
 away without telling us that you were coming out.
This walk is not wide enough for our party. We had better go into
 the avenue.
No, no; stay where you are. You are charmingly grouped, and
 appear to uncommon advantage. The picturesque would be spoilt by
 admitting a fourth. Good-bye.
very glad;
How pleasant it is to spend an evening in this way! I declare af
ter all there is no enjoyment like reading! How much sooner one tires
 of anything than of a book! When I have a house of my own, I shall be
 miserable if I have not an excellent library.
By the bye, Charles, are you really serious in meditating a dance
 at Netherfield? I would advise you, before you determine on it, to
 consult the wishes of the present party; I am much mistaken if there
 are not some among us to whom a ball would be rather a punishment
 than a pleasure.
If you mean Darcy,
he may go to bed, if he
 chooses, before it begins—but as for the ball, it is quite a settled thing;
 and as soon as Nicholls has made white soup enough, I shall send
 round mycards.
I should like balls infinitely better,
if they were car
ried on in a different manner; but there is something insufferably te
dious in the usual process of such a meeting. It would surely be much
 more rational if conversation instead of dancing were made the order
 of the day.
Muchmorerational, mydearCaroline, I dare say, but it would not
 be near so much like a ball.
Miss Eliza Bennet, let me persuade you to follow my example,
 and take a turn about the room. I assure you it is very refreshing after
 sitting so long in one attitude.
What could he mean? She was dying to know what
 could be his meaning?
Not at all,
but depend upon it, he means to be
 severe on us, and our surest way of disappointing him will be to ask
 nothing about it.
I have not the smallest objection to explaining them,
You either choose this method of
 passing the evening because you are in each other’s confidence, and
 have secret affairs to discuss, or because you are conscious that your
 f
 igures appear to the greatest advantage in walking; if the first, I would
 be completely in your way, and if the second, I can admire you much
 better as I sit by the fire.
Oh! shocking!
I never heard anything so
 abominable. How shall we punish him for such a speech?
Nothing so easy, if you have but the inclination,
We can all plague and punish one another. Tease him—laugh at him.
 Intimate as you are, you must know how it is to be done.
But upon my honour, I do not. I do assure you that my intimacy
 has not yet taught me that. Tease calmness of manner and presence of
 mind! No, no—feel he may defy us there. And as to laughter, we will
 not expose ourselves, if you please, by attempting to laugh without a
 subject. Mr. Darcy may hug himself.
Mr. Darcy is not to be laughed at!
That is an
 uncommon advantage, and uncommon I hope it will continue, for it
 would be a great loss to me to have many such acquaintances. I dearly
 39
love a laugh.
Miss Bingley,
has given me morecredit than canbe. The
 wisest and the best of men—nay, the wisest and best of their actions—
 may be rendered ridiculous by a person whose first object in life is a
 joke.
Certainly,
there are such people, but I hope
 I am not one of them. I hope I never ridicule what is wise and good.
 Follies and nonsense, whims and inconsistencies, do divert me, I own,
 and I laugh at them whenever I can. But these, I suppose, are precisely
 what you are without.
Perhaps that is not possible for anyone. But it has been the study
 of my life to avoid those weaknesses which often expose a strong un
derstanding to ridicule.
Such as vanity and pride.
Yes, vanity is a weakness indeed. But pride—where there is a real
 superiority of mind, pride will be always under good regulation.
Your examination of Mr. Darcy is over, I presume,
and pray what is the result?
I am perfectly convinced by it that Mr. Darcy has no defect. He
 owns it himself without disguise.
No,
I have made no such pretension. I have faults
 enough, but they are not, I hope, of understanding. My temper I dare
 not vouch for. It is, I believe, too little yielding—certainly too little for
 the convenience of the world. I cannot forget the follies and vices of
 other so soon as I ought, nor their offenses against myself. My feelings
 are not puffed about with every attempt to move them. My temper
 would perhaps be called resentful. My good opinion once lost, is lost
 forever.
That is a failing indeed!
Implacable resentment
 is a shade in a character. But you have chosen your fault well. I really
 cannot laugh at it. You are safe from me.
There is, I believe, in every disposition a tendency to some par
ticular evil—a natural defect, which not even the best education can
 overcome.
And your defect is to hate everybody.
And yours,
is willfully to misunder
stand them.
Do let us have a little music,
Louisa, you will not mind my
 waking Mr. Hurst?
I hope, my dear,
that you have ordered a good dinner to
day, because I have reason to expect an addition to our family party.
Who do you mean, my dear? I know of nobody that is coming, I
 amsure, unless Charlotte Lucas should happen to call in—and I hope
 my dinners are good enough for her. I do not believe she often sees
 such at home.
The person of whom I speak is a gentleman, and a stranger.
A gentleman and a stranger! It is Mr.
 Bingley, I am sure! Well, I am sure I shall be extremely glad to see Mr.
 Bingley. But—good Lord! how unlucky! There is not a bit of fish to
 42
be got to-day. Lydia, my love, ring the bell—I must speak to Hill this
 moment.
It is not Mr. Bingley,
it is a person whom I
 never saw in the whole course of my life.
About amonthagoIreceivedthis letter; and about a fortnight ago
 I answered it, for I thought it a case of some delicacy, and requiring
 early attention. It is from my cousin, Mr. Collins, who, when I am
 dead, may turn you all out of this house as soon as he pleases.
Oh! my dear,
I cannot bear to hear that men
tioned. Pray do not talk of that odious man. I do think it is the hardest
 thing in the world, that your estate should be entailed away from your
 ownchildren; and I amsure, if I hadbeenyou, Ishouldhavetried long
 ago to do something or other about it.
It certainly is a most iniquitous affair,
and noth
ing can clear Mr. Collins from the guilt of inheriting Longbourn. But if
 you will listen to his letter, you may perhaps be a little softened by his
 manner of expressing himself.
No, that I am sure I shall not; and I think it is very impertinent
 of him to write to you at all, and very hypocritical. I hate such false
 friends. Why could he not keep on quarreling with you, as his father
 did before him?
Why,indeed; hedoesseemtohavehadsomefilialscruplesonthat
 head, as you will hear.
Hunsford, near Westerham, Kent,
 15th October.
 “Dear Sir,—
 “The disagreement subsisting between yourself and my late hon
oured father always gave me much uneasiness, and since I have had
 the misfortune to lose him, I have frequently wished to heal the breach;
 but for some time I was kept back by my own doubts, fearing lest it
 43
might seem disrespectful to his memory for me to be on good terms
 with anyonewithwhomithadalwayspleasedhimtobeatvariance.—
 ’There, Mrs. Bennet.’—My mind, however, is nowmadeuponthesub
ject, for having received ordination at Easter, I have been so fortunate
 as to be distinguished by the patronage of the Right Honourable Lady
 Catherine de Bourgh, widow of Sir Lewis de Bourgh, whose bounty
 andbeneficence has preferred me to the valuable rectory of this parish,
 where it shall be my earnest endeavour to demean myself with grate
ful respect towards her ladyship, and be ever ready to perform those
 rites and ceremonies which are instituted by the Church of England.
 As a clergyman, moreover, I feel it my duty to promote and establish
 the blessing of peace in all families within in the reach of my influ
ence; and on these grounds I flatter myself that my present overtures
 are highly commendable, and that the circumstance of my being next
 in the entail of Longbourn estate will be kindly overlooked on your
 side, and not lead you to reject the offered olive-branch. I cannot be
 otherwise than concerned at being the means of injuring your amiable
 daughters, and beg leave to apologise for it, as well as to assure you of
 my readiness to make them every possible amends—but of this here
after. If you should have no objection to receive me into your house,
 I propose myself the satisfaction of waiting on you and your family,
 Monday, November 18th, by four o’clock, and shall probably trespass
 on your hospitality till the Saturday se’ennight following, which I can
 do without any inconvenience, as Lady Catherine is far from objecting
 to my occasional absence on a Sunday, provided that some other cler
gyman is engaged to do the duty of the day.—I remain, dear sir, with
 respectful compliments to your lady and daughters, your well-wisher
 and friend,
 “William Collins
At four o’clock, therefore, we may expect this peace-making gen
tleman,
He seems to be a
 most conscientious and polite young man, upon my word, and I doubt
 not will prove a valuable acquaintance, especially if Lady Catherine
 should be so indulgent as to let him come to us again.
There is some sense in what he says about the girls, however, and
 if he is disposed to make them any amends, I shall not be the person to
 discourage him.
Though it is difficult,
to guess in what way he can
 meantomakeustheatonementhethinksourdue,thewishiscertainly
 to his credit.
He must be an oddity, I think,
I cannot make him
 out.—There is something very pompous in his style.—And what can
 he mean by apologising for being next in the entail?—We cannot sup
pose he would help it if he could.—Could he be a sensible man, sir?
No, my dear, I think not. I have great hopes of finding him quite
 the reverse. There is a mixture of servility and self-importance in his
 letter, which promises well. I am impatient to see him.
In point of composition,
the letter does not seem de
fective. The idea of the olive-branch perhaps is not wholly new, yet I
 think it is well expressed.
You are very kind, I am sure; and I wish with all my heart it may
 prove so, for else they will be destitute enough. Things are settled so
 oddly.
You allude, perhaps, to the entail of this estate.
Ah! sir, I do indeed. It is a grievous affair to my poor girls, you
 must confess. Not that I mean to find fault with you, for such things
 I know are all chance in this world. There is no knowing how estates
 will go when once they come to be entailed.
I am very sensible, madam, of the hardship to my fair cousins,
 45
and could say muchonthesubject, but that I am cautious of appearing
 forward and precipitate. But I can assure the young ladies that I come
 prepared to admire them. At present I will not say more; but, perhaps,
 when wearebetter acquainted—
he had never in his life witnessed
 suchbehaviourinapersonofrank—suchaffabilityandcondescension,
 as he had himself experienced from Lady Catherine. She had been
 graciously pleased to approve of both of the discourses which he had
 already had the honour of preaching before her. She had also asked
 him twice to dine at Rosings, and had sent for him only the Saturday
 before, to make up her pool of quadrille in the evening. Lady Cather
ine was reckoned proud by many people he knew, but he had never
 seen anything but affability in her. She had always spoken to him as
 she wouldtoanyothergentleman; she madenotthesmallest objection
 to his joining in the society of the neighbourhood nor to his leaving
 the parish occasionally for a week or two, to visit his relations. She
 46
had even condescended to advise him to marry as soon as he could,
 provided he chose with discretion; and had once paid him a visit in
 his humble parsonage, where she had perfectly approved all the alter
ations he had been making, and had even vouchsafed to suggest some
 herself—some shelves in the closet upstairs.
That is all very proper andcivil, I amsure,
and
 I dare say she is a very agreeable woman. It is a pity that great ladies
 in general are not more like her. Does she live near you, sir?
The garden in which stands my humble abode is separated only
 by a lane from Rosings Park, her ladyship’s residence.
I think you said she was a widow, sir? Has she any family?
She has only one daughter, the heiress of Rosings, and of very
 extensive property.
Ah!
then she is better off
 than many girls. And what sort of young lady is she? Is she hand
some?
She is a most charming young lady indeed. Lady Catherine her
self says that, in point of true beauty, Miss de Bourgh is far superior
 to the handsomest of her sex, because there is that in her features
 which marks the young lady of distinguished birth. She is unfortu
nately of a sickly constitution, which has prevented her from making
 that progress in many accomplishments which she could not have oth
erwise failed of, as I am informed by the lady who superintended her
 education, and who still resides with them. But she is perfectly ami
able, and often condescends to drive by my humble abode in her little
 phaeton and ponies.
Has she been presented? I do not remember her name among the
 ladies at court.
Her indifferent state of health unhappily prevents her being in
 town; and by that means, as I told Lady Catherine one day, has de
prived the British court of its brightest ornaments. Her ladyship
 seemed pleased with the idea; and you may imagine that I am happy
 on every occasion to offer those little delicate compliments which are
 always acceptable to ladies. I have more than once observed to Lady
 Catherine, that her charming daughter seemed born to be a duchess,
 and that the most elevated rank, instead of giving her consequence,
 would be adorned by her. These are the kind of little things which
 please her ladyship, and it is a sort of attention which I conceive my
self peculiarly bound to pay.
You judge very properly,
and it is happy for
 you that you possess the talent of flattering with delicacy. May I ask
 47
whether these pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse of the mo
ment, or are the result of previous study?
They arise chiefly from what is passing at the time, and though I
 sometimes amuse myself with suggesting and arranging such little el
egant compliments as may be adapted to ordinary occasions, I always
 wish to give them as unstudied an air as possible.
Do you know, mamma, that my uncle Phillips talks of turning
 away Richard; and if he does, Colonel Forster will hire him. My aunt
 told me so herself on Saturday. I shall walk to Meryton to-morrow
 to hear more about it, and to ask when Mr. Denny comes back from
 town.
I have often observed how little young ladies are interested by
 books of a serious stamp, though written solely for their benefit. It
 amazes me, I confess; for, certainly, there can be nothing so advanta
geous to themasinstruction. But I will no longer importune my young
 cousin.
As to her
 younger daughters, she could not take upon her to say—she could not
 positively answer—but she did not know of any prepossession; her el
dest daughter, she must just mention—she felt it incumbent on her to
 hint, was likely to be very soon engaged.
stupid, disagreeable fellows.
I know little of the game at present,
but I shall be glad
 to improve myself, for in my situation in life—
Aboutamonth,
He is a man of very large property in Derbyshire, I
 understand.
Yes,
his estate there is a noble one. A clear
 ten thousand per annum. You could not have met with a person more
 capable of giving you certain information on that head than myself, for
 I have been connected with his family in a particular manner from my
 infancy.
Youmaywellbesurprised, MissBennet, atsuchanassertion, after
 seeing, as you probably might, the very cold manner of our meeting
 yesterday. Are you much acquainted with Mr. Darcy?
As much as I ever wish to be,
I
 have spent four days in the same house with him, and Ithink himvery
 disagreeable.
I havenorighttogivemyopinion,
astohisbeing
 agreeable or otherwise. I am not qualified to form one. I have known
 him too long and too well to be a fair judge. It is impossible for me
 to be impartial. But I believe your opinion of him would in general
 astonish—and perhaps you would notexpress it quite so strongly any
where else. Here you are in your own family.
Upon my word, I say no more here than I might say in any house
 in the neighbourhood, except Netherfield. Heis notat all liked in Hert
54
fordshire. Everybody is disgusted with his pride. Youwill notfindhim
 more favourably spoken of by anyone.
I cannot pretend to be sorry,
that he or that any manshould notbeestimatedbeyondtheir
 deserts; but with him I believe it does not often happen. The world is
 blinded by his fortune and consequence, or frightened by his high and
 imposing manners, and sees him only as he chooses to be seen.
I should take him, even on my slight acquaintance, to be an ill
tempered man.
I wonder,
whether
 he is likely to be in this country much longer.
I do not at all know; but I heard nothing of his going away when
 I was at Netherfield. I hope your plans in favour of the ——shire will
 not be affected by his being in the neighbourhood.
Oh! no—it is not for me to be driven away by Mr. Darcy. If he
 wishes to avoid seeing me, he must go. We are not on friendly terms,
 and it always gives me pain to meet him, but I have no reason for
 avoiding him but what I might proclaim before all the world, a sense
 of very great ill-usage, and most painful regrets at his being what he
 is. His father, Miss Bennet, the late Mr. Darcy, was one of the best
 men that ever breathed, and the truest friend I ever had; and I can
 never be in company with this Mr. Darcy without being grieved to the
 soul by a thousand tender recollections. His behaviour to myself has
 been scandalous; but I verily believe I could forgive him anything and
 everything, rather than his disappointing the hopes and disgracing the
 memory of his father.
It was the prospect of constant society, and good society,
which was my chief inducement to enter the ——shire. I
 knewittobeamostrespectable, agreeable corps, andmyfriendDenny
 tempted me further by his account of their present quarters, and the
 very great attentions and excellent acquaintances Meryton had pro
cured them. Society, I own, is necessary to me. I have been a disap
pointed man, and my spirits will not bear solitude. I must have em
ployment and society. A military life is not what I was intended for,
 but circumstances have now made it eligible. The church ought to have
 55
been my profession—I was brought up for the church, and I should
 at this time have been in possession of a most valuable living, had it
 pleased the gentleman we were speaking of just now.
Indeed!
Yes—the late Mr. Darcy bequeathed me the next presentation of
 the best living in his gift. He was my godfather, and excessively at
tached to me. I cannot do justice to his kindness. He meant to provide
 for me amply, and thought he had done it; but when the living fell, it
 was given elsewhere.
Good heavens!
but how could that be? How
 could his will be disregarded? Why did you not seek legal redress?
There wasjust suchaninformality in the terms of the bequest as to
 give me no hope from law. A man of honour could not have doubted
 the intention, but Mr. Darcy chose to doubt it—or to treat it as a merely
 conditional recommendation, andtoassert that I hadforfeited all claim
 to it by extravagance, imprudence—in short anything or nothing. Cer
tain it is, that the living became vacant two years ago, exactly as I was
 of an age to hold it, and that it was given to another man; and no less
 certain is it, that I cannot accuse myself of having really done anything
 to deserve to lose it. I have a warm, unguardedtemper, andImayhave
 spoken my opinion of him, and to him, too freely. I can recall nothing
 worse. But the fact is, that we are very different sort of men, and that
 he hates me.
This is quite shocking! He deserves to be publicly disgraced.
Some time or other he will be—but it shall not be by me. Till I can
 forget his father, I can never defy or expose him.
But what,
can have been his motive?
 What can have induced him to behave so cruelly?
A thorough, determined dislike of me—a dislike which I cannot
 but attribute in some measure to jealousy. Had the late Mr. Darcy liked
 me less, his son might have borne with me better; but his father’s un
commonattachmenttomeirritatedhim,Ibelieve, veryearlyinlife. He
 had not a temper to bear the sort of competition in which we stood—
 the sort of preference which was often given me.
I had not thought Mr. Darcy so bad as this—though I have never
 liked him. I had not thought so very ill of him. I had supposed him to
 be despising his fellow-creatures in general, but did not suspect him of
 descending to such malicious revenge, such injustice, such inhumanity
 as this.
I do re
member his boasting one day, at Netherfield, of the implacability of
 his resentments, of his having an unforgiving temper. His disposition
 must be dreadful.
I will not trust myself on the subject,
I can
 hardly be just to him.
To treat in such a manner the godson, the friend, the favourite of his
 father!
A young man, too, like you, whose
 very countenance may vouch for your being amiable
and one, too, who had probably been his com
panion from childhood, connected together, as I think you said, in the
 closest manner!
Wewereborn in the same parish, within the same park; the great
est part of our youth was passed together; inmates of the same house,
 sharing the same amusements, objects of the same parental care. My
 father began life in the profession which your uncle, Mr. Phillips, ap
pears to do so much credit to—but he gave up everything to be of use
 to the late Mr. Darcy and devoted all his time to the care of the Pember
ley property. He was most highly esteemed by Mr. Darcy, a most inti
mate, confidential friend. Mr. Darcy often acknowledged himself to be
 under the greatest obligations to my father’s active superintendence,
 and when, immediately before my father’s death, Mr. Darcy gave him
 a voluntary promise of providing for me, I am convinced that he felt it
 to be as much a debt of gratitude to him, as of his affection to myself.
Howstrange!
How abominable! I wonder that
 the very pride of this Mr. Darcy has not made him just to you! If
 from no better motive, that he should not have been too proud to be
 dishonest—for dishonesty I must call it.
It is wonderful,
for almost all his actions may
 be traced to pride; and pride had often been his best friend. It has con
nected him nearer with virtue than with any other feeling. But we are
 none of us consistent, and in his behaviour to me there were stronger
 impulses even than pride.
Can such abominable pride as his have ever done him good?
Yes. It has often led him to be liberal and generous, to give his
 money freely, to display hospitality, to assist his tenants, and relieve
 the poor. Family pride, and filial pride—for he is very proud of what
 his father was—have done this. Not to appear to disgrace his family,
 to degenerate from the popular qualities, or lose the influence of the
 Pemberley House, is a powerful motive. He has also brotherly pride,
 57
which, with some brotherly affection, makes him a very kind and care
ful guardian of his sister, and you will hear him generally cried up as
 the most attentive and best of brothers.
What sort of girl is Miss Darcy?
IwishIcouldcallheramiable. Itgivesmepain
 to speak ill of a Darcy. But she is too much like her brother—very, very
 proud. As a child, she was affectionate and pleasing, and extremely
 fond of me; and I have devoted hours and hours to her amusement.
 But she is nothing to me now. She is a handsome girl, about fifteen
 or sixteen, and, I understand, highly accomplished. Since her father’s
 death, her home has been London, where a lady lives with her, and
 superintends her education.
I am astonished at his intimacy with Mr. Bingley! How can Mr.
 Bingley, who seems good humour itself, and is, I really believe, truly
 amiable, be in friendship with such a man? How can they suit each
 other? Do you know Mr. Bingley?
Not at all.
Heis asweet-tempered, amiable, charming man. He cannot know
 what Mr. Darcy is.
Probably not; but Mr. Darcy can please where he chooses. He does
 not want abilities. He can be a conversible companion if he thinks it
 worthhiswhile. Amongthosewhoareatallhisequalsinconsequence,
 he is a very different man from what he is to the less prosperous. His
 pride never deserts him; but with the rich he is liberal-minded, just,
 sincere, rational, honourable, and perhaps agreeable—allowing some
thing for fortune and figure.
I know very well, madam,
that when persons sit down
 to a card-table, they must take their chances of these things, and hap
pily I amnotinsuchcircumstances as to make fiveshillings any object.
 There are undoubtedly many who could not say the same, but thanks
 to Lady Catherine de Bourgh, I am removed far beyond the necessity
 58
of regarding little matters.
Lady Catherine de Bourgh,
has very lately given
 him a living. I hardly know how Mr. Collins was first introduced to
 her notice, but he certainly has not known her long.
You know of course that Lady Catherine de Bourgh and Lady
 Anne Darcy were sisters; consequently that she is aunt to the present
 Mr. Darcy.
No, indeed, I did not. I knew nothing at all of Lady Catherine’s
 connections. I never heard of her existence till the day before yester
day.
Her daughter, Miss de Bourgh, will have a very large fortune, and
 it is believed that she and her cousin will unite the two estates.
Mr. Collins,
speaks highly both of Lady Catherine and
 her daughter; but from some particulars that he has related of her la
dyship, I suspect his gratitude misleads him, and that in spite of her
 being his patroness, she is an arrogant, conceited woman.
I believe her to be both in a great degree,
I
 have not seen her for many years, but I very well remember that I
 never liked her, and that her manners were dictatorial and insolent.
 She has the reputation of being remarkably sensible and clever; but I
 rather believe she derives part of her abilities from her rank and for
tune, part from her authoritative manner, and the rest from the pride
 for her nephew,whochoosesthateveryoneconnectedwithhimshould
 have an understanding of the first class.
They have both,
been deceived, I dare say, in some
 way or other, of which we can form no idea. Interested people have
 perhaps misrepresented each to the other. It is, in short, impossible for
 us to conjecture the causes or circumstances which may have alienated
 them, without actual blame on either side.
Very true, indeed; and now, my dear Jane, what have you got to
 say on behalf of the interested people who have probably been con
cerned in the business? Do clear them too, or we shall be obliged to
 think ill of somebody.
Laugh as much as you choose, but you will not laugh me out of
 my opinion. My dearest Lizzy, do but consider in what a disgraceful
 light it places Mr. Darcy, to be treating his father’s favourite in such a
 manner, one whomhisfather had promised to provide for. It is impos
sible. No man of common humanity, no man who had any value for
 his character, could be capable of it. Can his most intimate friends be
 so excessively deceived in him? Oh! no.
I can much more easily believe Mr. Bingley’s being imposed on,
 than that Mr. Wickham should invent such a history of himself as he
 gave me last night; names, facts, everything mentioned without cere
mony. If it be not so, let Mr. Darcy contradict it. Besides, there was
 60
truth in his looks.
It is difficult indeed—it is distressing. One does not know what to
 think.
I beg your pardon; one knows exactly what to think.
WhileIcanhavemymorningstomyself,
itisenough—
 I think it is no sacrifice to join occasionally in evening engagements.
 Society has claims on us all; and I profess myself one of those who
 consider intervals of recreation and amusement as desirable for every
body.
I am by no means of the opinion, I assure you,
that a
 ball of this kind, given by a young man of character, to respectable
 people, can have any evil tendency; and I am so far from objecting to
 dancing myself, that I shall hope to be honoured with the hands of all
 myfaircousinsinthecourseoftheevening; andItakethisopportunity
 of soliciting yours, Miss Elizabeth, for the two first dances especially, a
 preference whichItrust mycousinJanewillattributetotherightcause,
 and not to any disrespect for her.
I do not imagine his business would have called him
 awayjustnow,ifhehadnotwantedtoavoidacertaingentlemanhere.
I dare say you will find him very agreeable.
Heaven forbid! That would be the greatest misfortune of all! To
 f
 ind a man agreeable whom one is determined to hate! Do not wish
 mesuch an evil.
It is your turn to say something now, Mr. Darcy. I
 talked about the dance, and you ought to make some sort of remark on
 the size of the room, or the number of couples.
Very well. That reply will do for the present. Perhaps by and by
 I may observe that private balls are much pleasanter than public ones.
 But now wemaybesilent.
Do youtalk by rule, then, while you are dancing?
Sometimes. One must speak a little, you know. It would look odd
 to be entirely silent for half an hour together; and yet for the advantage
 of some, conversation ought to be so arranged, as that they may have
 the trouble of saying as little as possible.
Are you consulting your own feelings in the present case, or do
 64
you imagine that you are gratifying mine?
Both,
for I have always seen a great
 similarity in the turn of our minds. We are each of an unsocial, taciturn
 disposition, unwilling to speak, unless we expect to say something that
 will amaze the whole room, and be handed down to posterity with all
 the eclat of a proverb.
This is no very striking resemblance of your own character, I am
 sure,
How near it may be to mine, I cannot pretend to say.
 You think it a faithful portrait undoubtedly.
I must not decide on my own performance.
When you met us there the other day,
 wehadjust been forming a new acquaintance.
Mr. Wickham is blessed with such
 happy manners as mayensure his making friends—whether he may be
 equally capable of retaining them, is less certain.
He has been so unlucky as to lose your friendship,
and in a manner which he is likely to suffer from
 all his life.
I have been most highly gratified indeed, my dear sir. Such very
 superior dancing is not often seen. It is evident that you belong to the
 f
 irst circles. Allow me to say, however, that your fair partner does not
 disgrace you, andthatImusthopetohavethispleasureoftenrepeated,
 especially when a certain desirable event, my dear Eliza (glancing at
 her sister and Bingley) shall take place. What congratulations will then
 f
 low in! I appeal to Mr. Darcy:—but let me not interrupt you, sir. You
 will not thank me for detaining you from the bewitching converse of
 that young lady, whose bright eyes are also upbraiding me.
Sir William’s interruption
 has made meforget what we were talking of.
I do not think we were speaking at all. Sir William could not have
 interrupted two people in the roomwhohadlesstosayforthemselves.
 Wehave tried two or three subjects already without success, and what
 weare to talk of next I cannot imagine.
What think you of books?
Books—oh! no. I am sure we never read the same, or not with the
 same feelings.
I amsorry youthink so; but if that be the case, there can at least be
 no want of subject. We may compare our different opinions.
No—I cannot talk of books in a ball-room; my head is always full
 of something else.
Thepresent always occupies you in such scenes—does it?
Yes, always,
Irememberhearingyouoncesay,
 Mr. Darcy, that you hardly ever forgave, that your resentment once cre
ated wasunappeasable. Youareverycautious, Isuppose, astoits being
 created.
I am,
And never allow yourself to be blinded by prejudice?
I hope not.
It is particularly incumbent on those who never change their opin
ion, to be secure of judging properly at first.
MayI ask to what these questions tend?
Merely to the illustration of your character,
I am trying to make it out.
And what is your success?
I do not get on at all. I hear such different
 accounts of you as puzzle me exceedingly.
I canreadily believe,
thatreportsmayvary
 greatly with respect to me; and I could wish, Miss Bennet, that you
 were not to sketch my character at the present moment, as there is rea
son to fear that the performance would reflect no credit on either.
But if I do not take your likeness now, I may never have another
 opportunity.
I would by no means suspend any pleasure of yours,
So, Miss Eliza, I hear you are quite delighted with George Wick
ham! Your sister has been talking to me about him, and asking me a
 thousand questions; and I find that the young man quite forgot to tell
 you, amonghis other communication, that he was the son of old Wick
ham, the late Mr. Darcy’s steward. Let me recommend you, however,
 as a friend, not to give implicit confidence to all his assertions; for as
 to Mr. Darcy’s using him ill, it is perfectly false; for, on the contrary,
 he has always been remarkably kind to him, though George Wickham
 has treated Mr. Darcy in a most infamous manner. I do not know the
 particulars, but I know very well that Mr. Darcy is not in the least to
 blame, that he cannot bear to hear George Wickham mentioned, and
 that though mybrother thought that he could not well avoid including
 himinhis invitation to the officers, he was excessively glad to find that
 he hadtaken himself out of the way. His coming into the country at all
 is a most insolent thing, indeed, and I wonder how he could presume
 to do it. I pity you, Miss Eliza, for this discovery of your favourite’s
 guilt; but really, considering his descent, one could not expect much
 better.
His guilt and his descent appear by your account to be the same,
for I have heard you accuse him of nothing
 worse than of being the son of Mr. Darcy’s steward, and of that, I can
 assure you, he informed me himself.
I beg your pardon,
Excuse my interference—it was kindly meant.
Insolent girl!
You are much mistaken if
 youexpect to influence mebysuchapaltryattack as this. I see nothing
 in it but your own wilful ignorance and the malice of Mr. Darcy.
I want to know,
what you have learnt about Mr. Wickham. But perhaps
 you have been too pleasantly engaged to think of any third person; in
 which case you may be sure of my pardon.
No,
I have not forgotten him; but I have nothing
 satisfactory to tell you. Mr. Bingley does not know the whole of his
 history, and is quite ignorant of the circumstances which have princi
pally offended Mr. Darcy; but he will vouch for the good conduct, the
 probity, and honour of his friend, and is perfectly convinced that Mr.
 WickhamhasdeservedmuchlessattentionfromMr.Darcythanhehas
 received; and I amsorrytosaybyhisaccountaswellashissister’s, Mr.
 Wickham is by no means a respectable young man. I am afraid he has
 been very imprudent, and has deserved to lose Mr. Darcy’s regard.
Mr. Bingley does not know Mr. Wickham himself?
No; he never saw him till the other morning at Meryton.
This account then is what he has received from Mr. Darcy. I am
 satisfied. But what does he say of the living?
He does not exactly recollect the circumstances, though he has
 heard them from Mr. Darcy more than once, but he believes that it was
 left to him conditionally only.
I have not a doubt of Mr. Bingley’s sincerity,
but you must excuse my not being convinced by assurances
 only. Mr. Bingley’s defense of his friend was a very able one, I dare
 say; but since he is unacquainted with several parts of the story, and
 has learnt the rest from that friend himself, I shall venture to still think
 of both gentlemen as I did before.
I have found out,
by a singular accident, that there is
 now in the room a near relation of my patroness. I happened to over
hearthegentlemanhimselfmentioningtotheyoungladywhodoesthe
 honours of the house the names of his cousin Miss de Bourgh, and of
 her mother Lady Catherine. How wonderfully these sort of things oc
cur! Whowouldhavethoughtofmymeetingwith,perhaps, anephew
 of Lady Catherine de Bourgh in this assembly! I am most thankful that
 68
the discovery is made in time for me to pay my respects to him, which
 I am nowgoing to do, and trust he will excuse my not having done it
 before. My total ignorance of the connection must plead my apology.
You are not going to introduce yourself to Mr. Darcy!
Indeed I am. I shall entreat his pardon for not having done it ear
lier. I believe him to be LadyCatherine’s nephew. It will be in mypower
 to assure him that her ladyship was quite well yesterday se’nnight.
MydearMissElizabeth, I have the highest opinion in the world in
 yourexcellent judgementinall matters within thescopeofyourunder
standing; but permit me to say, that there must be a wide difference be
tween the established forms of ceremony amongst the laity, and those
 which regulate the clergy; for, give me leave to observe that I consider
 the clerical office as equal in point of dignity with the highest rank in
 the kingdom—provided that a proper humility of behaviour is at the
 same time maintained. You must therefore allow me to follow the dic
tates of my conscience on this occasion, which leads me to perform
 what I look on as apoint of duty. Pardon me for neglecting to profit by
 your advice, which on every other subject shall be my constant guide,
 though in the case before us I consider myself more fitted by education
 and habitual study to decide on what is right than a young lady like
 yourself.
apology,
Hunsford,
Lady Catherine de Bourgh.
I have no reason, I assure you,
to be dissatisfied with
 myreception. Mr. Darcy seemed much pleased with the attention. He
 answered me with the utmost civility, and even paid me the compli
ment of saying that he was so well convinced of Lady Catherine’s dis
cernment as to be certain she could never bestow a favour unworthily.
 It was really a very handsome thought. Upon the whole, I am much
 pleased with him.
What is Mr. Darcy to me, pray, that I should be afraid of him? I
 amsure we owe him nosuch particular civility as to be obliged to say
 nothing he may not like to hear.
For heaven’s sake, madam, speak lower. What advantage can it
 be for you to offend Mr. Darcy? You will never recommend yourself to
 his friend by so doing!
That will
 do extremely well, child. You have delighted us long enough. Let the
 other young ladies have time to exhibit.
If I,
were so fortunate as to be able to sing, I
 should have great pleasure, I am sure, in obliging the company with
 an air; for I consider music as a very innocent diversion, and perfectly
 compatible with the profession of a clergyman. I do not mean, how
ever, to assert that we can be justified in devoting too much of our time
 to music, for there are certainly other things to be attended to. The rec
tor of a parish has much to do. In the first place, he must make such
 an agreement for tithes as may be beneficial to himself and not offen
sive to his patron. He must write his own sermons; and the time that
 remains will not be too much for his parish duties, and the care and
 improvement of his dwelling, which he cannot be excused from mak
ing as comfortable as possible. And I do not think it of light impor
tance that he should have attentive and conciliatory manner towards
 everybody, especially towards those to whom he owes his preferment.
 I cannot acquit him of that duty; nor could I think well of the man who
 should omit anoccasion of testifying his respect towards anybody con
nectedwiththefamily.
Lord, how tired I am!
MayIhope,madam,foryourinterestwithyourfairdaughterEliz
abeth, when I solicit for the honour of a private audience with her in
 the course of this morning?
Oh dear!—yes—certainly. I am sure Lizzy
 will be very happy—I am sure she can have no objection. Come, Kitty,
 I want you upstairs.
Dear madam, do not go. I beg you will not go. Mr. Collins must
 excuse me. He can have nothing to say to me that anybody need not
 hear. I am going away myself.
No, no, nonsense, Lizzy. I desire you to stay where you are.
Lizzy, I insist upon your staying and hear
ing Mr. Collins.
Believe me, mydearMissElizabeth,thatyourmodesty,sofarfrom
 doing you any disservice, rather adds to your other perfections. You
 74
would have been less amiable in my eyes had there not been this little
 unwillingness; but allow me to assure you, that I have your respected
 mother’s permission for this address. You can hardly doubt the pur
port of my discourse, however your natural delicacy may lead you to
 dissemble; my attentions have been too marked to be mistaken. Al
most as soon as I entered the house, I singled you out as the compan
ion of my future life. But before I am run away with by my feelings on
 this subject, perhaps it would be advisable for me to state my reasons
 for marrying—and, moreover, for coming into Hertfordshire with the
 design of selecting a wife, as I certainly did.
My reasons for marrying are, first, that I think it a right thing for
 every clergyman in easy circumstances (like myself) to set the exam
ple of matrimony in his parish; secondly, that I am convinced that it
 will add very greatly to my happiness; and thirdly—which perhaps
 I ought to have mentioned earlier, that it is the particular advice and
 recommendation of the very noble lady whom I have the honour of
 calling patroness. Twice has she condescended to give me her opinion
 (unasked too!) on this subject; and it was but the very Saturday night
 before I left Hunsford—between our pools at quadrille, while Mrs.
 Jenkinson was arranging Miss deBourgh’sfootstool, that she said, ‘Mr.
 Collins, you must marry. A clergyman like you must marry. Choose
 properly, choose a gentlewoman for my sake; and for your own, let her
 be an active, useful sort of person, not brought up high, but able to
 make a small income go a good way. This is my advice. Find such
 a woman as soon as you can, bring her to Hunsford, and I will visit
 her.’ Allow me, by the way, to observe, my fair cousin, that I do not
 reckon the notice and kindness of Lady Catherine de Bourgh as among
 the least of the advantages in my power to offer. You will find her
 manners beyond anything I can describe; and your wit and vivacity,
 I think, must be acceptable to her, especially when tempered with the
 silence and respect which her rank will inevitably excite. Thus much
 for my general intention in favour of matrimony; it remains to be told
 why my views were directed towards Longbourn instead of my own
 neighbourhood, where I can assure you there are many amiable young
 women. But the fact is, that being, as I am, to inherit this estate af
ter the death of your honoured father (who, however, may live many
 years longer), I could not satisfy myself without resolving to choose a
 75
wife from among his daughters, that the loss to them might be as little
 as possible, when the melancholy event takes place—which, however,
 as I have already said, may not be for several years. This has been my
 motive, my fair cousin, and I flatter myself it will not sink me in your
 esteem. And now nothing remains but for me but to assure you in the
 most animated language of the violence of my affection. To fortune I
 am perfectly indifferent, and shall make no demand of that nature on
 your father, since I am well aware that it could not be complied with;
 and that one thousand pounds in the four per cents, which will not be
 yours till after your mother’s decease, is all that you may ever be en
titled to. On that head, therefore, I shall be uniformly silent; and you
 may assure yourself that no ungenerous reproach shall ever pass my
 lips when we are married.
You are too hasty, sir,
You forget that I have made no
 answer. Let medoitwithoutfurtherlossof time. Acceptmythanksfor
 the compliment you are paying me. I am very sensible of the honour
 of your proposals, but it is impossible for me to do otherwise than to
 decline them.
I am not now to learn,
that it is usual with young ladies to reject the addresses
 of the man whom they secretly mean to accept, when he first applies
 for their favour; and that sometimes the refusal is repeated a second,
 or even a third time. I am therefore by no means discouraged by what
 you have just said, and shall hope to lead you to the altar ere long.
Upon myword, sir,
your hope is a rather extra
ordinary one after my declaration. I do assure you that I am not one of
 those young ladies (if such young ladies there are) who are so daring
 as to risk their happiness on the chance of being asked a second time.
 I am perfectly serious in my refusal. You could not make me happy,
 and I am convinced that I am the last woman in the world who could
 make you so. Nay, were your friend Lady Catherine to know me, I
 am persuaded she would find me in every respect ill qualified for the
 situation.
Were it certain that Lady Catherine would think so,
but I cannot imagine that her ladyship would
 at all disapprove of you. And you maybecertain when Ihavethe hon
our of seeing her again, I shall speak in the very highest terms of your
 modesty, economy, and other amiable qualification.
Indeed, Mr. Collins, all praise of me will be unnecessary. You must
 give me leave to judge for myself, and pay me the compliment of be
76
lieving what I say. I wish you very happy and very rich, and by refus
ing your hand, do all in my power to prevent your being otherwise. In
 making me the offer, you must have satisfied the delicacy of your feel
ings with regard to my family, and may take possession of Longbourn
 estate whenever it falls, without any self-reproach. This matter may be
 considered, therefore, as finally settled.
When I do myself the honour of speaking to you next on the sub
ject, I shall hope to receive a more favourable answer than you have
 nowgivenme;thoughIamfarfromaccusingyouofcrueltyatpresent,
 because I know it to be the established custom of your sex to reject a
 man on the first application, and perhaps you have even now said as
 much to encourage my suit as would be consistent with the true deli
cacy of the female character.
Really, Mr. Collins,
you puz
zle me exceedingly. If what I have hitherto said can appear to you in
 the form of encouragement, I know not how to express my refusal in
 such a way as to convince you of its being one.
Youmustgivemeleavetoflattermyself,mydearcousin,thatyour
 refusal of my addresses is merely words of course. My reasons for be
lieving it are briefly these: It does not appear to me that my hand is
 unworthy your acceptance, or that the establishment I can offer would
 be any other than highly desirable. My situation in life, my connec
tions with the family of de Bourgh, and my relationship to your own,
 are circumstances highly in my favour; and you should take it into
 further consideration, that in spite of your manifold attractions, it is by
 nomeanscertain that another offer of marriage may ever be madeyou.
 Yourportion is unhappily sosmallthat it will in all likelihood undo the
 effects of your loveliness and amiable qualifications. As I must there
fore conclude that you are not serious in your rejection of me, I shall
 choose to attribute it to your wish of increasing my love by suspense,
 according to the usual practice of elegant females.
I do assure you, sir, that I have no pretensions whatever to that
 kind of elegance which consists in tormenting a respectable man. I
 wouldrather bepaidthecomplimentofbeingbelievedsincere. I thank
 you again and again for the honour you have done mein yourpropos
als, but to accept them is absolutely impossible. My feelings in every
 respect forbid it. Can I speak plainer? Do not consider me now as
 an elegant female, intending to plague you, but as a rational creature,
 speaking the truth from her heart.
You are uniformly charming!
and I am persuaded that when sanctioned by the express
 authority of both your excellent parents, my proposals will not fail of
 being acceptable.
But, depend upon it, Mr. Collins,
that Lizzy shall be
 brought to reason. I will speak to her about it directly. She is a very
 headstrong, foolish girl, and does not know her own interest but I will
 make her know it.
Pardon me for interrupting you, madam,
but
 if she is really headstrong and foolish, I know not whether she would
 altogether be a very desirable wife to a man in my situation, who natu
rally looks for happiness in the marriage state. If therefore she actually
 persists in rejecting my suit, perhaps it were better not to force her into
 accepting me, because if liable to such defects of temper, she could not
 contribute much to my felicity.
Sir, you quite misunderstand me,
Lizzy is only headstrong in such matters as these. In everything else
 she is as good-natured a girl as ever lived. I will go directly to Mr.
 Bennet, and we shall very soon settle it with her, I am sure.
Oh! Mr. Bennet, you
 are wanted immediately; we are all in an uproar. You must come and
 makeLizzymarryMr.Collins, for she vows she will not have him, and
 if you do not make haste he will change his mind and not have her.
I have not the pleasure of understanding you,
Of what are you talking?
Of Mr. Collins and Lizzy. Lizzy declares she will not have Mr.
 Collins, and Mr. Collins begins to say that he will not have Lizzy.
And what am I to do on the occasion? It seems an hopeless busi
ness.
Speak to Lizzy about it yourself. Tell her that you insist upon her
 marrying him.
Let her be called down. She shall hear my opinion.
Come here, child,
I have sent
 for you on an affair of importance. I understand that Mr. Collins has
 made you an offer of marriage. Is it true?
Very well—and this offer of marriage you have refused?
I have, sir.
Very well. We now come to the point. Your mother insists upon
 your accepting it. Is it not so, Mrs. Bennet?
Yes, or I will never see her again.
An unhappy alternative is before you, Elizabeth. From this day
 you must be a stranger to one of your parents. Your mother will never
 see you again if you do not marry Mr. Collins, and I will never see you
 again if you do.
Whatdoyoumean,Mr.Bennet,intalkingthisway? Youpromised
 meto insist upon her marrying him.
My dear,
I have two small favours to re
quest. First, that you will allow me the free use of my understanding
 on the present occasion; and secondly, of my room. I shall be glad to
 have the library to myself as soon as may be.
I am glad you are come, for there
 is such fun here! What do you think has happened this morning? Mr.
 Collins has made an offer to Lizzy, and she will not have him.
Pray do, my dearMissLucas,
for nobody is on my side, nobody takes part with me. I
 amcruelly used, nobody feels for my poor nerves.
Aye, there she comes,
looking as uncon
cerned as may be, and caring no more for us than if we were at York,
 provided she can have her own way. But I tell you, Miss Lizzy—if you
 take it into your head to go on refusing every offer of marriage in this
 way, you will never get a husband at all—and I am sure I do not know
 who is to maintain you when your father is dead. I shall not be able
 to keep you—and so I warn you. I have done with you from this very
 day. I told you in the library, you know, that I should never speak to
 you again, and you will find me as good as my word. I have no plea
sure in talking to undutiful children. Not that I have much pleasure,
 80
indeed, in talking to anybody. People who suffer as I do from nervous
 complaints can have no great inclination for talking. Nobody can tell
 whatIsuffer! But it is always so. Those who donotcomplainarenever
 pitied.
Now, I do insist upon it, that you, all of you, hold your tongues, and
 let me and Mr. Collins have a little conversation together.
Oh! Mr. Collins!
My dear madam,
let us be for ever silent on this
 point. Far be it from me,
to resent the behaviour of your daughter.
 Resignation to inevitable evils is the evil duty of us all; the peculiar
 duty of a young manwhohasbeensofortunate as I have been in early
 preferment; and I trust I am resigned. Perhaps not the less so from
 feeling a doubt of my positive happiness had my fair cousin honoured
 me with her hand; for I have often observed that resignation is never
 so perfect as when the blessing denied begins to lose somewhat of its
 value in our estimation. You will not, I hope, consider me as showing
 any disrespect to your family, my dear madam, by thus withdrawing
 mypretensions to your daughter’s favour, without having paid your
self andMr.Bennetthecomplimentofrequestingyoutointerposeyour
 authority in mybehalf. Myconductmay,Ifear,beobjectionableinhav
ing accepted my dismission from your daughter’s lips instead of your
 own. But weare all liable to error. I have certainly meant well through
 the whole affair. My object has been to secure an amiable companion
 for myself, with due consideration for the advantage of all your fam
ily, and if my manner has been at all reprehensible, I here beg leave to
 apologise.
I found,
as the time drew near that I had better not meet
 Mr. Darcy; that to be in the same room, the same party with him for so
 manyhours together, might be more than I could bear, and that scenes
 might arise unpleasant to more than myself.
This is from Caroline Bingley; what it contains has surprised me
 a good deal. The whole party have left Netherfield by this time, and
 are on their way to town—and without any intention of coming back
 again. You shall hear what she says.
I do not pretend
 to regret anything I shall leave in Hertfordshire, except your society,
 my dearest friend; but we will hope, at some future period, to enjoy
 many returns of that delightful intercourse we have known, and in
 the meanwhile may lessen the pain of separation by a very frequent
 and most unreserved correspondence. I depend on you for that.
It is unlucky,
that you should notbe
 able to see your friends before they leave the country. But may we not
 hope that the period of future happiness to which Miss Bingley looks
 forward mayarriveearlier than she is aware, andthatthedelightful in
tercourse you have known as friends will be renewed with yet greater
 satisfaction as sisters? Mr. Bingley will not be detained in London by
 them.
Caroline decidedly says that none of the party will return into
 Hertfordshire this winter. I will read it to you:
When my brother left us yesterday, he imagined that the busi
ness which took him to London might be concluded in three or four
 days; but as we are certain it cannot be so, and at the same time con
vinced that when Charles gets to town he will be in no hurry to leave it
 again, we have determined on following him thither, that he may not
 be obliged to spend his vacant hours in a comfortless hotel. Many of
 my acquaintances are already there for the winter; I wish that I could
 hear that you, my dearest friend, had any intention of making one of
 the crowd—but of that I despair. I sincerely hope your Christmas in
 83
Hertfordshire may abound in the gaieties which that season generally
 brings, and that your beaux will be so numerous as to prevent your
 feeling the loss of the three of whom we shall deprive you.
It is evident by this,
that he comes back no more
 this winter.
It is only evident that Miss Bingley does not mean that he should.
Why will you think so? It must be his own doing. He is his own
 master. But you do not know all. I will read you the passage which
 particularly hurts me. I will have no reserves from you.
Mr. Darcy is impatient to see his sister; and, to confess the truth,
 we are scarcely less eager to meet her again. I really do not think Geor
giana Darcy has her equal for beauty, elegance, and accomplishments;
 and the affection she inspires in Louisa and myself is heightened into
 something still more interesting, from the hope we dare entertain of
 her being hereafter our sister. I do not know whether I ever before
 mentioned to you my feelings on this subject; but I will not leave the
 country without confiding them, and I trust you will not esteem them
 unreasonable. My brother admires her greatly already; he will have
 frequent opportunity now of seeing her on the most intimate footing;
 her relations all wish the connection as much as his own; and a sis
ter’s partiality is not misleading me, I think, when I call Charles most
 capable of engaging any woman’s heart. With all these circumstances
 to favour an attachment, and nothing to prevent it, am I wrong, my
 dearest Jane, in indulging the hope of an event which will secure the
 happiness of so many?
What do you think of this sentence, my dear Lizzy?
Is it not clear enough? Does it not expressly declare
 that Caroline neither expects nor wishes me to be her sister; that she
 is perfectly convinced of her brother’s indifference; and that if she sus
pects the nature of my feelings for him, she means (most kindly!) to
 put meonmyguard? Canthere be any other opinion on the subject?
Yes, there can; for mine is totally different. Will you hear it?
Most willingly.
Youshallhaveitinafewwords. MissBingleyseesthatherbrother
 is in love with you, and wants him to marry Miss Darcy. She follows
 him to town in hope of keeping him there, and tries to persuade you
 that he does not care about you.
Indeed, Jane, you ought to believe me. No one who has ever seen
 you together can doubt his affection. Miss Bingley, I am sure, cannot.
 She is not such a simpleton. Could she have seen half as much love
 84
in Mr. Darcy for herself, she would have ordered her wedding clothes.
 But the case is this: We are not rich enough or grand enough for them;
 and she is the more anxious to get Miss Darcy for her brother, from
 the notion that when there has been one intermarriage, she may have
 less trouble in achieving a second; in which there is certainly some
 ingenuity, and I dare say it would succeed, if Miss de Bourgh were out
 of the way. But, my dearest Jane, you cannot seriously imagine that
 because Miss Bingley tells you her brother greatly admires Miss Darcy,
 he is in the smallest degree less sensible of your merit than when he
 took leaveofyouonTuesday,orthatitwillbeinherpowertopersuade
 himthat, insteadofbeinginlovewithyou,heisverymuchinlovewith
 her friend.
If we thought alike of Miss Bingley,
your represen
tation of all this might make me quite easy. But I know the foundation
 is unjust. Caroline is incapable of wilfully deceiving anyone; and all
 that I can hope in this case is that she is deceiving herself.
That is right. You could not have started a more happy idea, since
 you will not take comfort in mine. Believe her to be deceived, by all
 means. Youhavenowdoneyourdutybyher,andmustfretnolonger.
But, my dear sister, can I be happy, even supposing the best, in
 accepting a manwhosesisters andfriendsare all wishing himtomarry
 elsewhere?
You must decide for yourself,
and if, upon ma
ture deliberation, you find that the misery of disobliging his two sisters
 is more than equivalent to the happiness of being his wife, I advise you
 by all means to refuse him.
Howcanyoutalkso?
You must know
 that though I should be exceedingly grieved at their disapprobation, I
 could not hesitate.
I did not think you would; and that being the case, I cannot con
sider your situation with much compassion.
But if he returns no more this winter, my choice will never be re
quired. A thousand things may arise in six months!
It keeps him
 in good humour,
and I am more obliged to you than I can
 express.
My dear madam,
this invitation is particularly grat
ifying, because it is what I have been hoping to receive; and you may
 be very certain that I shall avail myself of it as soon as possible.
But is there not danger of Lady Catherine’s disapprobation here,
 mygoodsir? You hadbetter neglect your relations than run the risk of
 offending your patroness.
Mydearsir,
 I am particularly obliged to you
 for this friendly caution, and you may depend upon my not taking so
 material a step without her ladyship’s concurrence.
You cannot be too much upon your guard. Risk anything rather
 than her displeasure; and if you find it likely to be raised by your com
ing tousagain, whichIshouldthinkexceedinglyprobable, stayquietly
 at home, and be satisfied that we shall take no offence.
Believe me, my dear sir, my gratitude is warmly excited by such
 affectionate attention; and depend upon it, you will speedily receive
 from me a letter of thanks for this, and for every other mark of your
 regard during mystayinHertfordshire. As for myfair cousins, though
 myabsence maynot belong enough to render it necessary, I shall now
 take the liberty of wishing them health and happiness, not excepting
 mycousin Elizabeth.
Engaged to Mr. Collins! My dear Charlotte—impossible!
Why should you be surprised, my dear Eliza? Do you think it in
credible that Mr. Collins should be able to procure any woman’s good
 opinion, because he was not so happy as to succeed with you?
I see what you are feeling,
You must be sur
prised, very much surprised—so lately as Mr. Collins was wishing to
 marry you. But when you have had time to think it over, I hope you
 will be satisfied with what I have done. I am not romantic, you know;
 I never was. I ask only a comfortable home; and considering Mr.
 Collins’s character, connection, and situation in life, I am convinced
 that my chance of happiness with him is as fair as most people can
 boast on entering the marriage state.
Undoubtedly;
Good Lord! Sir William, how can you tell such a story? Do not
 you knowthat Mr. Collins wants to marry Lizzy?
Indeed, Mr. Bennet,
it is very hard to think that Char
lotte Lucas shouldeverbemistressofthishouse, thatIshouldbeforced
 to make wayfor her, and live to see her take her place in it!
My dear, do not give way to such gloomy thoughts. Let us hope
 for better things. Let us flatter ourselves that I may be the survivor.
I cannot bear to think that they should have all this estate. If it was
 not for the entail, I should not mind it.
What should not you mind?
I should not mind anything at all.
Let us be thankful that you are preserved from a state of such in
sensibility.
I never can be thankful, Mr. Bennet, for anything about the entail.
 How anyone could have the conscience to entail away an estate from
 one’s own daughters, I cannot understand; and all for the sake of Mr.
 Collins too! Why should he have it more than anybody else?
I leave it to yourself to determine,
Oh, that my dear mother had more command over herself! She
 can have no idea of the pain she gives me by her continual reflections
 on him. ButIwill not repine. It cannot last long. He will be forgot, and
 weshall all be as we were before.
You doubt me,
indeed, you have
 no reason. He may live in my memory as the most amiable man of my
 acquaintance, but that is all. I have nothing either to hope or fear, and
 nothing to reproach him with. Thank God! I have not that pain. A little
 time, therefore—I shall certainly try to get the better.
I have this comfort imme
diately, that it has not been more than an error of fancy on my side, and
 that it has done no harm to anyone but myself.
My dear Jane!
you are too good. Your
 sweetness and disinterestedness are really angelic; I do not know what
 to say to you. I feel as if I had never done you justice, or loved you as
 you deserve.
Nay,
this is not fair. You wish to think all the
 world respectable, and are hurt if I speak ill of anybody. I only want
 to think you perfect, and you set yourself against it. Do not be afraid
 of myrunning into any excess, of my encroaching on your privilege of
 universal good-will. You need not. There are few people whomIreally
 love, and still fewer of whom I think well. The more I see of the world,
 the more am I dissatisfied with it; and every day confirms my belief of
 the inconsistency of all human characters, and of the little dependence
 that can be placed on the appearance of merit or sense. I have met with
 two instances lately, one I will not mention; the other is Charlotte’s
 marriage. It is unaccountable! In every view it is unaccountable!
My dear Lizzy, do not give way to such feelings as these. They
 will ruin your happiness. You do not make allowance enough for dif
ference of situation and temper. Consider Mr. Collins’s respectability,
 and Charlotte’s steady, prudent character. Remember that she is one
 of a large family; that as to fortune, it is a most eligible match; and be
 ready tobelieve, for everybody’s sake, that she may feel something like
 regard and esteem for our cousin.
To oblige you, I would try to believe almost anything, but no one
 else could be benefited by such a belief as this; for were I persuaded
 that Charlotte had any regard for him, I should only think worse of her
 understanding than I now do of her heart. My dear Jane, Mr. Collins
 is a conceited, pompous, narrow-minded, silly man; you know he is,
 as well as I do; and you must feel, as well as I do, that the woman
 whomarried him cannot have a proper way of thinking. You shall not
 defend her, though it is Charlotte Lucas. You shall not, for the sake
 of one individual, change the meaning of principle and integrity, nor
 endeavour to persuade yourself or me, that selfishness is prudence,
 and insensibility of danger security for happiness.
I must think your language too strong in speaking of both,
and I hope you will be convinced of it by seeing them
 happy together. But enough of this. You alluded to something else.
 95
You mentioned two instances. I cannot misunderstand you, but I en
treat you, dear Lizzy, not to pain me by thinking that person to blame,
 and saying your opinion of him is sunk. We must not be so ready
 to fancy ourselves intentionally injured. We must not expect a lively
 young man to be always so guarded and circumspect. It is very often
 nothing but ourownvanitythatdeceives us. Womenfancyadmiration
 means more than it does.
And mentake care that they should.
If it is designedly done, they cannot be justified; but I have no idea
 of there being so much design in the world as some persons imagine.
I am far from attributing any part of Mr. Bingley’s conduct to de
sign,
but without scheming to do wrong, or to make
 others unhappy, theremaybeerror, andtheremaybemisery. Thought
lessness, want of attention to other people’s feelings, and want of res
olution, will do the business.
And doyouimpute it to either of those?
Yes; to the last. But if I go on, I shall displease you by saying what
 I think of persons you esteem. Stop me whilst you can.
You persist, then, in supposing his sisters influence him?
Yes, in conjunction with his friend.
I cannot believe it. Why should they try to influence him? They
 can only wish his happiness; and if he is attached to me, no other
 womancansecure it.
Your first position is false. They may wishmanythingsbesideshis
 happiness; theymaywishhisincreaseofwealthandconsequence; they
 may wish him to marry a girl who has all the importance of money,
 great connections, and pride.
Beyond a doubt, they do wish him to choose Miss Darcy,
but this may be from better feelings than you are supposing.
 Theyhaveknownhermuchlongerthantheyhaveknownme;nowon
der if they love her better. But, whatever may be their own wishes, it
 is very unlikely they should have opposed their brother’s. What sister
 wouldthinkherselfatlibertytodoit, unlessthereweresomethingvery
 objectionable? If they believed him attached to me, they would not try
 to part us; if he were so, they could not succeed. By supposing such an
 affection, you make everybody acting unnaturally and wrong, and me
 most unhappy. Do not distress me by the idea. I am not ashamed of
 having been mistaken—or, at least, it is light, it is nothing in compar
ison of what I should feel in thinking ill of him or his sisters. Let me
 take it in the best light, in the light in which it may be understood.
So, Lizzy,
your sister is crossed in love, I find. I congratulate her. Next to
 being married, a girl likes to be crossed a little in love now and then.
 It is something to think of, and it gives her a sort of distinction among
 her companions. When is your turn to come? You will hardly bear to
 be long outdone by Jane. Now is your time. Here are officers enough
 in Meryton to disappoint all the young ladies in the country. Let Wick
ham be your man. He is a pleasant fellow, and would jilt you cred
itably.
Thank you, sir, but a less agreeable man would satisfy me. We
 must not all expect Jane’s good fortune.
True,
but it is a comfort to think that whatever
 of that kind may befall you, you have an affectionate mother who will
 make the most of it.
I do not blame Jane,
for Jane would have got Mr.
 Bingley if she could. But Lizzy! Oh, sister! It is very hard to think that
 she might have been Mr. Collins’s wife by this time, had it not been for
 her own perverseness. He made her an offer in this very room, and
 she refused him. The consequence of it is, that Lady Lucas will have a
 daughter married before I have, and that the Longbourn estate is just
 as much entailed as ever. The Lucases are very artful people indeed,
 sister. They are all for what they can get. I am sorry to say it of them,
 but so it is. It makes me very nervous and poorly, to be thwarted so
 in my own family, and to have neighbours who think of themselves
 before anybody else. However, your coming just at this time is the
 greatest of comforts, and I am very glad to hear what you tell us, of
 98
long sleeves.
It seems likely to have been a desirable match for Jane,
I am sorry it went off. But these things happen so often! A young
 man, such as you describe Mr. Bingley, so easily falls in love with a
 pretty girl for a few weeks, and when accident separates them, so eas
ily forgets her, that these sort of inconsistencies are very frequent.
Anexcellent consolation in its way,
but it will not
 do for us. We do not suffer by accident. It does not often happen that
 the interference of friends will persuade a young man of independent
 fortune to think no more of a girl whom he was violently in love with
 only a few days before.
Butthat expression of ‘violently in love’ is so hackneyed, so doubt
ful, so indefinite, that it gives me very little idea. It is as often applied
 to feelings which arise from a half-hour’s acquaintance, as to a real,
 strong attachment. Pray, how violent was Mr. Bingley’s love?
I never saw a more promising inclination; he was growing quite
 inattentive to other people, and wholly engrossed by her. Every time
 they met, it was more decided and remarkable. At his own ball he
 offended two or three young ladies, by not asking them to dance; and
 I spoke to him twice myself, without receiving an answer. Could there
 be finer symptoms? Is not general incivility the very essence of love?
Oh, yes!—of that kind of love which I suppose him to have felt.
 Poor Jane! I am sorry for her, because, with her disposition, she may
 not get over it immediately. It had better have happened to you, Lizzy;
 youwouldhavelaughedyourselfoutofitsooner. Butdoyouthinkshe
 would be prevailed upon to go back with us? Change of scene might
 be of service—and perhaps a little relief from home may be as useful
 as anything.
I hope,
that no consideration with regard
 to this young man will influence her. We live in so different a part of
 town, all our connections are so different, and, as you well know, we
 go out so little, that it is very improbable that they should meet at all,
 unless he really comes to see her.
And that is quite impossible; for he is now in the custody of his
 99
friend, and Mr. Darcy would no more suffer him to call on Jane in such
 a part of London! My dear aunt, how could you think of it? Mr. Darcy
 may perhaps have heard of such a place as Gracechurch Street, but he
 would hardly think a month’s ablution enough to cleanse him from its
 impurities, were he once to enter it; and depend upon it, Mr. Bingley
 never stirs without him.
So much the better. I hope they will not meet at all. But does not
 Jane correspond with his sister? She will not be able to help calling.
She will drop the acquaintance entirely.
You are too sensible a girl, Lizzy, to fall in love merely because
 you are warned against it; and, therefore, I am not afraid of speaking
 openly. Seriously, I would have you be on your guard. Do not involve
 yourself or endeavour to involve him in an affection which the want of
 fortune would make so very imprudent. I have nothing to say against
 him; he is a most interesting young man; and if he had the fortune he
 ought to have, I should think you could not do better. But as it is, you
 must not let your fancy run away with you. You have sense, and we
 all expect you to use it. Your father would depend on your resolution
 and good conduct, I am sure. You must not disappoint your father.
Mydear aunt, this is being serious indeed.
Yes, and I hope to engage you to be serious likewise.
Well, then, you need not be under any alarm. I will take care of
 myself, and of Mr. Wickham too. He shall not be in love with me, if I
 can prevent it.
Elizabeth, you are not serious now.
I beg your pardon, I will try again. At present I am not in love
 with Mr. Wickham; no, I certainly am not. But he is, beyond all com
parison, the most agreeable man I ever saw—and if he becomes really
 attached to me—I believe it will be better that he should not. I see the
 imprudence of it. Oh! that abominable Mr. Darcy! My father’s opinion
 of medoesmethegreatest honour, and I should be miserable to forfeit
 101
it. My father, however, is partial to Mr. Wickham. In short, my dear
 aunt, I should be very sorry to be the means of making any of you un
happy; but since we see every day that where there is affection, young
 people are seldom withheld by immediate want of fortune from enter
ing into engagements with each other, how can I promise to be wiser
 than so manyofmyfellow-creatures if I am tempted, or howamIeven
 to know that it would be wisdom to resist? All that I can promise you,
 therefore, is not to be in a hurry. I will not be in a hurry to believe
 myself his first object. When I am in company with him, I will not be
 wishing. In short, I will do my best.
Perhapsit will be aswellifyoudiscouragehiscomingheresovery
 often. At least, you should not remind you mother of inviting him.
As I did the other day,
very true, it will be wise in me to refrain from that. But do not imagine
 that he is always here so often. It is on your account that he has been
 so frequently invited this week. You know my mother’s ideas as to the
 necessity of constant company for her friends. But really, and upon my
 honour, I will try to do what I think to be the wisest; and now I hope
 you are satisfied.
wished they might be happy.
I shall depend on hearing from you very often, Eliza.
That you certainly shall.
AndIhaveanotherfavourtoaskyou. Willyoucomeandseeme?
Weshall often meet, I hope, in Hertfordshire.
I amnotlikely to leave Kent for some time. Promise me, therefore,
 to come to Hunsford.
My father and Maria are coming to me in March,
and I hope you will consent to be of the party. Indeed, Eliza,
 you will be as welcome as either of them.
Myaunt,
is going to-morrow into that part of the
 town, and I shall take the opportunity of calling in Grosvenor Street.
I did not think Caroline in spirits,
but she
 wasverygladtosee me, andreproached meforgiving her nonotice of
 mycoming to London. I was right, therefore, my last letter had never
 reached her. I inquired after their brother, of course. He was well, but
 so much engaged with Mr. Darcy that they scarcely ever saw him. I
 found that Miss Darcy was expected to dinner. I wish I could see her.
 My visit was not long, as Caroline and Mrs. Hurst were going out. I
 dare say I shall see them soon here.
MydearestLizzywill, Iamsure, beincapableoftriumphinginher
 better judgement, at my expense, when I confess myself to have been
 entirely deceived in Miss Bingley’s regard for me. But, my dear sister,
 though the event has proved you right, do not think me obstinate if
 I still assert that, considering what her behaviour was, my confidence
 wasasnatural asyoursuspicion. I donotatall comprehendherreason
 for wishing to be intimate with me; but if the same circumstances were
 to happenagain, IamsureIshouldbedeceivedagain. Carolinedidnot
 return my visit till yesterday; and not a note, not a line, did I receive
 in the meantime. When she did come, it was very evident that she
 had nopleasure in it; she made a slight, formal apology, for not calling
 before, said not a word of wishing to see me again, and was in every
 respect so altered a creature, that when she went away I was perfectly
 resolved to continue the acquaintance no longer. I pity, though I cannot
 help blaming her. She was very wrong in singling me out as she did;
 I can safely say that every advance to intimacy began on her side. But
 I pity her, because she must feel that she has been acting wrong, and
 because I am very sure that anxiety for her brother is the cause of it.
 I need not explain myself farther; and though we know this anxiety
 to be quite needless, yet if she feels it, it will easily account for her
 behaviour to me; and so deservedly dear as he is to his sister, whatever
 anxiety she must feel on his behalf is natural and amiable. I cannot but
 wonder, however, at her having any such fears now, because, if he had
 at all cared about me, we must have met, long ago. He knows of my
 being in town, I am certain, from something she said herself; and yet
 it would seem, by her manner of talking, as if she wanted to persuade
 herself that he is really partial to Miss Darcy. I cannot understand it.
 If I were not afraid of judging harshly, I should be almost tempted to
 say that there is a strong appearance of duplicity in all this. But I will
 endeavourtobanisheverypainfulthought, andthinkonlyofwhatwill
 make me happy—your affection, and the invariable kindness of my
 104
dear uncle and aunt. Let me hear from you very soon. Miss Bingley
 said something of his never returning to Netherfield again, of giving
 up the house, but not with any certainty. We had better not mention
 it. I am extremely glad that you have such pleasant accounts from our
 friends at Hunsford. Pray go to see them, with Sir William and Maria.
 I amsure you will be very comfortable there.—Yours, etc.
I am now convinced, my dear aunt,
 that I have never been much in love; for had I really experienced that
 pure and elevating passion, I should at present detest his very name,
 and wish him all manner of evil. But my feelings are not only cordial
 towards him; they are even impartial towards Miss King. I cannot find
 out that I hate her at all, or that I am in the least unwilling to think her a
 very goodsort ofgirl. There can be noloveinall this. My watchfulness
 has been effectual; and though I certainly should be a more interesting
 object to all my acquaintances were I distractedly in love with him,
 I cannot say that I regret my comparative insignificance. Importance
 105
may sometimes be purchased too dearly. Kitty and Lydia take his de
fection much more to heart than I do. They are young in the ways of
 the world, and not yet open to the mortifying conviction that hand
some youngmenmusthavesomethingtolive on as well as the plain.
ButmydearElizabeth,
whatsortofgirlisMissKing?
 I should be sorry to think our friend mercenary.
Pray, my dear aunt, what is the difference in matrimonial affairs,
 between the mercenary and the prudent motive? Where does discre
tion end, and avarice begin? Last Christmas you were afraid of his
 marrying me, because it would be imprudent; and now, because he is
 trying to get a girl with only ten thousand pounds, you want to find
 out that he is mercenary.
If you will only tell me what sort of girl Miss King is, I shall know
 what to think.
She is a very good kind of girl, I believe. I know no harm of her.
But he paid her not the smallest attention till her grandfather’s
 death made her mistress of this fortune.
No—what should he? If it were not allowable for him to gain my
 affections because I had no money, what occasion could there be for
 makinglovetoagirlwhomhedidnotcareabout,andwhowasequally
 poor?
But there seems an indelicacy in directing his attentions towards
 her so soon after this event.
A man in distressed circumstances has not time for all those ele
gant decorums which other people may observe. If she does not object
 to it, why should we?
Her not objecting does not justify him. It only shows her being
 deficient in something herself—sense or feeling.
Well,
have it as you choose. He shall be merce
nary, and she shall be foolish.
No, Lizzy, that is what I do not choose. I should be sorry, you
 know,tothinkill of a youngmanwhohaslivedsolonginDerbyshire.
Oh! if that is all, I have a very poor opinion of young men who
 live in Derbyshire; and their intimate friends who live in Hertfordshire
 are not much better. I am sick of them all. Thank Heaven! I am going
 to-morrow where I shall find a manwhohasnotoneagreeable quality,
 whohasneither manner nor sense to recommend him. Stupid men are
 the only ones worth knowing, after all.
Takecare, Lizzy; that speech savours strongly of disappointment.
We have not determined how far it shall carry us,
but, perhaps, to the Lakes.
Oh, my
 dear, dear aunt,
what delight! what felic
ity! You give me fresh life and vigour. Adieu to disappointment and
 spleen. What are young men to rocks and mountains? Oh! what hours
 of transport we shall spend! And when we do return, it shall not be
 like other travellers, without being able to give one accurate idea of
 anything. We will know where we have gone—we will recollect what
 we have seen. Lakes, mountains, and rivers shall not be jumbled to
gether in our imaginations; nor when we attempt to describe any par
ticular scene, will we begin quarreling about its relative situation. Let
 our first effusions be less insupportable than those of the generality of
 travellers.
Yes, Miss Elizabeth, you will have the honour of seeing Lady
 Catherine de Bourgh on the ensuing Sunday at church, and I need not
 say you will be delighted with her. She is all affability and condescen
sion, and I doubt not but you will be honoured with some portion of
 her notice when service is over. I have scarcely any hesitation in say
ing she will include you and my sister Maria in every invitation with
 which she honours us during your stay here. Her behaviour to my
 dear Charlotte is charming. We dine at Rosings twice every week, and
 are never allowed to walk home. Her ladyship’s carriage is regularly
 ordered for us. I should say, one of her ladyship’s carriages, for she has
 several.
Lady Catherine is a very respectable, sensible woman indeed,
and a most attentive neighbour.
Very true, my dear, that is exactly what I say. She is the sort of
 womanwhomonecannotregard with too much deference.
Oh, my dear Eliza! pray make haste and come into the dining
room, for there is such a sight to be seen! I will not tell you what it is.
 Make haste, and come down this moment.
And is this all?
I expected at least that the pigs
 were got into the garden, and here is nothing but Lady Catherine and
 her daughter.
La! my dear,
it is not
 Lady Catherine. The old lady is Mrs. Jenkinson, who lives with them;
 the other is Miss de Bourgh. Only look at her. She is quite a little crea
ture. Who would have thought that she could be so thin and small?
She is abominably rude to keep Charlotte out of doors in all this
 wind. Whydoes she not come in?
Oh, Charlotte says she hardly ever does. It is the greatest of
 favours when Miss de Bourgh comes in.
I like her appearance,
She looks sickly and cross. Yes, she will do for him very well. She
 will make him a very proper wife.
I confess,
that I should not have been at all surprised by
 her ladyship’s asking us on Sunday to drink tea and spend the evening
 at Rosings. I rather expected, from my knowledge of her affability, that
 it would happen. But who could have foreseen such an attention as
 this? Who could have imagined that we should receive an invitation
 to dine there (an invitation, moreover, including the whole party) so
 immediately after your arrival!
I amthelesssurprisedatwhathashappened,
from that knowledge of what the manners of the great really are,
 which my situation in life has allowed me to acquire. About the court,
 such instances of elegant breeding are not uncommon.
Donotmakeyourselfuneasy, mydearcousin,aboutyourapparel.
 Lady Catherine is far from requiring that elegance of dress in us which
 becomes herself and her daughter. I would advise you merely to put
 on whatever of your clothes is superior to the rest—there is no occa
sion for anything more. Lady Catherine will not think the worse of
 you for being simply dressed. She likes to have the distinction of rank
 112
preserved.
Your father’s estate is entailed on Mr. Collins, I think. For your
 sake,
I am glad of it; but otherwise I see no
 occasion for entailing estates from the female line. It was not thought
 necessary in Sir Lewis de Bourgh’s family. Do you play and sing, Miss
 Bennet?
Alittle.
Oh! then—sometime or other we shall be happy to hear you. Our
 instrument is a capital one, probably superior to——You shall try it
 some day. Do your sisters play and sing?
One of them does.
Why did not you all learn? You ought all to have learned. The
 Miss Webbs all play, and their father has not so good an income as
 yours. Do you draw?
No, not at all.
What, none of you?
Not one.
That is very strange. But I suppose you had no opportunity. Your
 mother should have taken you to town every spring for the benefit of
 masters.
Mymotherwouldhavehadnoobjection,butmyfatherhatesLon
don.
Has your governess left you?
Wenever had any governess.
No governess! How was that possible? Five daughters brought
 up at home without a governess! I never heard of such a thing. Your
 mother must have been quite a slave to your education.
Then, who taught you? who attended to you? Without a gov
erness, you must have been neglected.
Comparedwithsomefamilies, I believe we were; but such of usas
 wished to learn never wanted the means. We were always encouraged
 to read, and had all the masters that were necessary. Those who chose
 to be idle, certainly might.
Aye, no doubt; but that is what a governess will prevent, and if I
 had known your mother, I should have advised her most strenuously
 to engage one. I always say that nothing is to be done in education
 without steady and regular instruction, and nobody but a governess
 can give it. It is wonderful how many families I have been the means
 of supplying in that way. I am always glad to get a young person
 well placed out. Four nieces of Mrs. Jenkinson are most delightfully
 situated through my means; and it was but the other day that I rec
ommendedanother young person, who was merely accidentally men
tioned to me, and the family are quite delighted with her. Mrs. Collins,
 did I tell you of Lady Metcalf’s calling yesterday to thank me? She
 f
 inds Miss Popeatreasure. ‘Lady Catherine,’ said she, ‘you have given
 meatreasure.’ Are any of your younger sisters out, Miss Bennet?
Yes, ma’am, all.
All! What, all five out at once? Very odd! And you only the sec
ond. The younger ones out before the elder ones are married! Your
 younger sisters must be very young?
Yes, my youngest is not sixteen. Perhaps she is full young to be
 much in company. But really, ma’am, I think it would be very hard
 upon younger sisters, that they should not have their share of society
 and amusement, because the elder may not have the means or inclina
tion to marry early. The last-born has as good a right to the pleasures
 of youth at the first. And to be kept back on such a motive! I think
 it would not be very likely to promote sisterly affection or delicacy of
 mind.
Upon my word,
you give your opinion very
 decidedly for so young a person. Pray, what is your age?
With three younger sisters grown up,
your ladyship can hardly expect me to own it.
Youcannot bemorethantwenty, Iamsure, therefore you neednot
 116
conceal your age.
I am not one-and-twenty.
I may thank you, Eliza, for this piece of civility. Mr. Darcy would
 never have come so soon to wait upon me.
My eldest sister has been in town these three months. Have you
 never happened to see her there?
Whatisthatyouaresaying, Fitzwilliam? Whatisityouaretalking
 of? What are you telling Miss Bennet? Let me hear what it is.
We are speaking of music, madam,
Of music! Then pray speak aloud. It is of all subjects my delight.
 I must have my share in the conversation if you are speaking of mu
sic. There are few people in England, I suppose, who have more true
 enjoyment of music than myself, or a better natural taste. If I had ever
 learnt, I should have been a great proficient. And so would Anne, if
 her health had allowed her to apply. I am confident that she would
 have performed delightfully. How does Georgiana get on, Darcy?
I am very glad to hear such a good account of her,
and pray tell her from me, that she cannot expect to excel
 if she does not practice a good deal.
I assure you, madam,
that she does not need such
 advice. She practises very constantly.
So much the better. It cannot be done too much; and when I next
 write to her, I shall charge her not to neglect it on any account. I often
 tell young ladies that no excellence in music is to be acquired with
out constant practice. I have told Miss Bennet several times, that she
 will never play really well unless she practises more; and though Mrs.
 Collins has no instrument, she is very welcome, as I have often told
 her, to come to Rosings every day, and play on the pianoforte in Mrs.
 Jenkinson’s room. She would be in nobody’s way, you know, in that
 part of the house.
You mean to frighten me, Mr. Darcy, by coming in all this state to
 hear me? I will not be alarmed though your sister does play so well.
 There is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened
 at the will of others. My courage always rises at every attempt to in
timidate me.
I shall not say you are mistaken,
because you could
 not really believe me to entertain any design of alarming you; and I
 have had the pleasure of your acquaintance long enough to know that
 you findgreat enjoyment in occasionally professing opinions which in
 fact are not your own.
Your cousin will give you a very pretty notion
 of me, and teach you not to believe a word I say. I am particularly un
lucky in meeting with a person so able to expose my real character, in
 a part of the world where I had hoped to pass myself off with some
 degree of credit. Indeed, Mr. Darcy, it is very ungenerous in you to
 mention all that you knew to my disadvantage in Hertfordshire—and,
 give me leave to say, very impolitic too—for it is provoking me to re
taliate, and such things may come out as will shock your relations to
 hear.
I am not afraid of you,
Pray let me hear what you have to accuse him of,
I should like to know how he behaves among strangers.
You shall hear then—but prepare yourself for something very
 dreadful. The first time of my ever seeing him in Hertfordshire, you
 must know, was at a ball—and at this ball, what do you think he did?
 He danced only four dances, though gentlemen were scarce; and, to
 mycertain knowledge, more than one young lady was sitting down in
 want of a partner. Mr. Darcy, you cannot deny the fact.
I had not at that time the honour of knowing any lady in the as
sembly beyond my ownparty.
True; and nobody can ever be introduced in a ball-room. Well,
 Colonel Fitzwilliam, what do I play next? My fingers wait your or
ders.
Perhaps,
I should have judged better, had I sought
 122
an introduction; but I am ill-qualified to recommend myself to
 strangers.
Shall we ask your cousin the reason of this?
Shall we ask him why a manofsense
 and education, and who has lived in the world, is ill qualified to rec
ommendhimself to strangers?
I can answer your question,
without applying
 to him. It is because he will not give himself the trouble.
I certainly have not the talent which some people possess,
of conversing easily with those I have never seen before. I
 cannot catch their tone of conversation, or appear interested in their
 concerns, as I often see done.
Myfingers,
do not move over this instrument in
 the masterly manner which I see so many women’s do. They have not
 the same force or rapidity, and do not produce the same expression.
 But then I have always supposed it to be my own fault—because I will
 not take the trouble of practising. It is not that I do not believe my
 f
 ingers as capable as any other woman’s of superior execution.
You are perfectly right. You have em
ployed your time much better. No one admitted to the privilege of
 hearing you can think anything wanting. We neither of us perform to
 strangers.
Miss Bennet would not play at all amiss if she practised more, and
 could have the advantage of a London master. She has a very good no
tion of fingering, though her taste is not equal to Anne’s. Anne would
 have been adelightful performer, had her health allowed her to learn.
How very suddenly you all quitted Netherfield last November,
 Mr. Darcy! It must have been a most agreeable surprise to Mr. Bingley
 to see you all after him so soon; for, if I recollect right, he went but
 the day before. He and his sisters were well, I hope, when you left
 London?
Perfectly so, I thank you.
I think I have understood that Mr. Bingley has not much idea of
 ever returning to Netherfield again?
I haveneverheardhimsayso; butitisprobablethathemayspend
 very little of his time there in the future. He has many friends, and is
 at a time of life when friends and engagements are continually increas
ing.
If he means tobebutlittle at Netherfield, it would be better for the
 neighbourhood that he should give up the place entirely, for then we
 might possibly get a settled family there. But, perhaps, Mr. Bingley did
 not take the house so much for the convenience of the neighbourhood
 as for his own, andwemustexpecthimtokeepitorquititonthesame
 principle.
I should not be surprised,
if he were to give it up as
 soon as any eligible purchase offers.
This seems averycomfort
able house. Lady Catherine, I believe, did a great deal to it when Mr.
 Collins first came to Hunsford.
I believe she did—and I am sure she could not have bestowed her
 kindness on a more grateful object.
Mr. Collins appears to be very fortunate in his choice of a wife.
Yes, indeed, his friends may well rejoice in his having met with
 one of the very few sensible women who would have accepted him,
 or have made him happy if they had. My friend has an excellent
 understanding—though I am not certain that I consider her marrying
 Mr. Collins as the wisest thing she ever did. She seemsperfectly happy,
 however, and in a prudential light it is certainly a very good match for
 her.
It must be very agreeable for her to be settled within so easy a
 distance of her own family and friends.
An easy distance, do you call it? It is nearly fifty miles.
Andwhatisfifty miles of good road? Little more than half a day’s
 journey. Yes, I call it a very easy distance.
I should never have considered the distance as one of the advan
tages of the match,
I should never have said Mrs.
 Collins was settled near her family.
It is a proof of your own attachment to Hertfordshire. Anything
 beyond the very neighbourhood of Longbourn, I suppose, would ap
pear far.
I do not mean to say that a woman may not be settled too near
 her family. The far and the near must be relative, and depend on many
 varying circumstances. Where there is fortune to make the expenses
 of travelling unimportant, distance becomes no evil. But that is not
 the case here. Mr. and Mrs. Collins have a comfortable income, but not
 such a oneaswill allow of frequent journeys—and I am persuaded my
 friend would not call herself near her family under less than half the
 present distance.
You cannot
 havearighttosuchverystronglocalattachment. Youcannothavebeen
 always at Longbourn.
Are you pleased with Kent?
What can be the meaning of this?
My dear, Eliza, he must be in love with you, or he would
 never have called us in this familiar way.
I did not know before that you ever walked this way.
I have been making the tour of the park,
as I gener
ally do every year, and intend to close it with a call at the Parsonage.
 Are you going much farther?
No, I should have turned in a moment.
Do youcertainly leave Kent on Saturday?
Yes—if Darcy does not put it off again. But I am at his disposal.
 Hearranges the business just as he pleases.
And if not able to please himself in the arrangement, he has at
 least pleasure in the great power of choice. I do not know anybody
 who seems more to enjoy the power of doing what he likes than Mr.
 Darcy.
He likes to have his own way very well,
But so we all do. It is only that he has better means
 of having it than many others, because he is rich, and many others are
 poor. I speak feelingly. A younger son, you know, must be inured to
 self-denial and dependence.
In my opinion, the younger son of an earl can know very little of
 either. Nowseriously, whathaveyoueverknownofself-denialandde
pendence? Whenhaveyoubeenpreventedbywantofmoneyfromgo
ing wherever you chose, or procuring anything you had a fancy for?
These are home questions—and perhaps I cannot say that I have
 experienced many hardships of that nature. But in matters of greater
 weight, I may suffer from want of money. Younger sons cannot marry
 where they like.
Unless where they like women of fortune, which I think they very
 often do.
Our habits of expense make us too dependent, and there are too
 many in my rank of life who can afford to marry without some atten
tion to money.
Is this,
meant for me?
And pray,
 128
what is the usual price of an earl’s younger son? Unless the elder
 brother is very sickly, I suppose you would not ask above fifty thou
sand pounds.
I imagine your cousin brought you down with him chiefly for the
 sake of having someone at his disposal. I wonder he does not marry, to
 secure a lasting convenience of that kind. But, perhaps, his sister does
 as well for the present, and, as she is under his sole care, he may do
 what he likes with her.
No,
that is an advantage which he
 must divide with me. I am joined with him in the guardianship of
 Miss Darcy.
Are you indeed? And pray what sort of guardians do you make?
 Does your charge give you much trouble? Young ladies of her age are
 sometimes a little difficult to manage, and if she has the true Darcy
 spirit, she may like to have her own way.
You need not be frightened. I never heard any harm of her; and I
 dare say she is one of the most tractable creatures in the world. She is a
 very great favourite with some ladies of my acquaintance, Mrs. Hurst
 and Miss Bingley. I think I have heard you say that you know them.
I know them a little. Their brother is a pleasant gentlemanlike
 man—heis agreat friend of Darcy’s.
Oh! yes,
Mr. Darcy is uncommonly kind to
 Mr. Bingley, and takes a prodigious deal of care of him.
Care of him! Yes, I really believe Darcy does take care of him in
 those points where he most wants care. From something that he told
 me in our journey hither, I have reason to think Bingley very much
 indebted to him. But I ought to beg his pardon, for I have no right to
 suppose that Bingley was the person meant. It was all conjecture.
What is it you mean?
It is a circumstance which Darcy could not wish to be generally
 known, because if it were to get round to the lady’s family, it would be
 an unpleasant thing.
You maydepend upon mynotmentioning it.
And remember that I have not much reason for supposing it to
 129
be Bingley. What he told me was merely this: that he congratulated
 himself on having lately saved a friend from the inconveniences of a
 mostimprudentmarriage, butwithout mentioningnamesoranyother
 particulars, and I only suspectedittobeBingleyfrombelievinghimthe
 kind of young man to get into a scrape of that sort, and from knowing
 them to have been together the whole of last summer.
Did Mr. Darcy give you reasons for this interference?
I understood that there were some very strong objections against
 the lady.
And what arts did he use to separate them?
He did not talk to me of his own arts,
He only told me what I have now told you.
I am thinking of what you have been telling me,
Your
 cousin’s conduct does not suit my feelings. Why was he to be the
 judge?
You are rather disposed to call his interference officious?
I donotseewhatright Mr. Darcyhadtodecideonthepropriety of
 his friend’s inclination, or why, upon his own judgement alone, he was
 to determine and direct in what manner his friend was to be happy.
 But,
as we know none of the par
ticulars, it is not fair to condemn him. It is not to be supposedthat there
 was muchaffection in the case.
That is not an unnatural surmise,
but it is a
 lessening of the honour of my cousin’s triumph very sadly.
There were some very strong objections against the lady,
To Jane herself,
there could be no possibility of
 objection; all loveliness and goodness as she is!—her understanding
 excellent, her mind improved, and her manners captivating. Neither
 could anything be urged against my father, who, though with some
 peculiarities, has abilities Mr. Darcy himself need not disdain, and re
spectability which he will probably never each.
In vain I have struggled. It will not do. My feelings will not be
 repressed. You must allow me to tell you how ardently I admire and
 love you.
In suchcasesasthis, it is, I believe, the established mode to express
 a sense of obligation for the sentiments avowed, however unequally
 they may be returned. It is natural that obligation should be felt, and
 if I could feel gratitude, I would now thank you. But I cannot—I have
 never desired your good opinion, and you have certainly bestowed it
 most unwillingly. I am sorry to have occasioned pain to anyone. It has
 been most unconsciously done, however, and I hope will be of short
 duration. The feelings which, you tell me, have long prevented the ac
knowledgment of your regard, can have little difficulty in overcoming
 it after this explanation.
And this is all the reply which I am to have the honour of expect
ing! I might, perhaps, wish to be informed why, with so little endeavour
 at civility, I am thus rejected. But it is of small importance.
I might as well inquire,
why with so evident a de
sire of offending and insulting me, you chose to tell me that you liked
 meagainst your will, against your reason, and even against your char
acter? Was not this some excuse for incivility, if I was uncivil? But I
 have other provocations. You know I have. Had not my feelings de
cided against you—had they been indifferent, or had they even been
 favourable, do you think that any consideration would tempt me to
 accept the man who has been the means of ruining, perhaps for ever,
 the happiness of a most beloved sister?
I have every reason in the world to think ill of you. No motive
 can excuse the unjust and ungenerous part you acted there. You dare
 not, you cannot deny, that you have been the principal, if not the only
 means of dividing them from each other—of exposing one to the cen
sure of the world for caprice and instability, and the other to its deri
sion for disappointed hopes, and involving them both in misery of the
 acutest kind.
Can you deny that you have done it?
I have nowishofdeny
ing that I did everything in my power to separate my friend from your
 sister, or that I rejoice in my success. Towards him I have been kinder
 than towards myself.
But it is not merely this affair,
on which my dis
like is founded. Long before it had taken place my opinion of you was
 decided. Your character was unfolded in the recital which I received
 many months ago from Mr. Wickham. On this subject, what can you
 have to say? In what imaginary act of friendship can you here defend
 yourself? or under what misrepresentation can you here impose upon
 others?
You take an eager interest in that gentleman’s concerns,
Whothat knows whathis misfortunes have been, can help feeling
 an interest in him?
His misfortunes!
yes, his mis
fortunes have been great indeed.
Andofyourinfliction,
You have re
duced him to his present state of poverty—comparative poverty. You
 have withheld the advantages which you must know to have been de
signed for him. You have deprived the best years of his life of that
 independence which was no less his due than his desert. You have
 done all this! and yet you can treat the mention of his misfortune with
 contempt and ridicule.
And this,
is your opinion of me! This is the estimation in which you
 hold me! I thank you for explaining it so fully. My faults, according
 134
to this calculation, are heavy indeed! But perhaps,
these offenses might have
 been overlooked, had not your pride been hurt by my honest confes
sion of the scruples that had long prevented my forming any serious
 design. These bitter accusations might have been suppressed, had I,
 with greater policy, concealed my struggles, and flattered you into the
 belief of my being impelled by unqualified, unalloyed inclination; by
 reason, by reflection, by everything. But disguise of every sort is my
 abhorrence. Nor am I ashamedofthefeelings I related. They were nat
ural and just. Could you expect me to rejoice in the inferiority of your
 connections?—to congratulate myself on the hope of relations, whose
 condition in life is so decidedly beneath my own?
You are mistaken, Mr. Darcy, if you suppose that the mode of your
 declaration affected me in any other way, than as it spared the concern
 which I might have felt in refusing you, had you behaved in a more
 gentlemanlike manner.
You could not have made the offer of your hand in any possible
 waythat would have tempted me to accept it.
From the very beginning—from the first moment, I may almost
 say—ofmyacquaintancewithyou,yourmanners,impressingmewith
 the fullest belief of your arrogance, your conceit, and your selfish dis
dain of the feelings of others, were such as to form the groundwork of
 disapprobation on which succeeding events have built so immovable
 a dislike; and I had not known you a month before I felt that you were
 the last man in theworldwhomIcouldeverbeprevailedontomarry.
Youhavesaidquiteenough,madam. Iperfectlycomprehendyour
 feelings, and have nowonlytobeashamedofwhatmyownhavebeen.
 Forgive me for having taken up so much of your time, and accept my
 best wishes for your health and happiness.
I have been walking in the grove some time
 in the hope of meeting you. Will you do me the honour of reading that
 letter?
Be not alarmed, madam, on receiving this letter, by the apprehen
sion of its containing any repetition of those sentiments or renewal of
 those offers which were last night so disgusting to you. I write with
out any intention of paining you, or humbling myself, by dwelling on
 wishes which, for the happiness of both, cannot be too soon forgotten;
 and the effort which the formation and the perusal of this letter must
 occasion, should have been spared, had not my character required it
 to be written and read. You must, therefore, pardon the freedom with
 which I demand your attention; your feelings, I know, will bestow it
 unwillingly, but I demand it of your justice.
 “Two offenses of a very different nature, and by no means of equal
 magnitude, you last night laid to my charge. The first mentioned was,
 that, regardless of the sentiments of either, I had detached Mr. Bin
gley from your sister, and the other, that I had, in defiance of vari
ous claims, in defiance of honour and humanity, ruined the immedi
ate prosperity and blasted the prospects of Mr. Wickham. Wilfully and
 wantonly tohavethrownoffthecompanionofmyyouth,theacknowl
edged favourite of my father, a young man whohadscarcely anyother
 dependence than on our patronage, and who had been brought up to
 expect its exertion, would be a depravity, to which the separation of
 two young persons, whose affection could be the growth of only a few
 weeks, could bear no comparison. But from the severity of that blame
 which was last night so liberally bestowed, respecting each circum
stance, I shall hope to be in the future secured, when the following
 account of my actions and their motives has been read. If, in the ex
planation of them, which is due to myself, I am under the necessity of
 relating feelings which may be offensive to yours, I can only say that
 I am sorry. The necessity must be obeyed, and further apology would
 be absurd.
 “I had not been long in Hertfordshire, before I saw, in common
 with others, that Bingley preferred your elder sister to any other young
 137
woman in the country. But it was not till the evening of the dance
 at Netherfield that I had any apprehension of his feeling a serious at
tachment. I had often seen him in love before. At that ball, while I
 had the honour of dancing with you, I was first made acquainted, by
 Sir William Lucas’s accidental information, that Bingley’s attentions to
 your sister had given rise to a general expectation of their marriage.
 He spoke of it as a certain event, of which the time alone could be un
decided. From that moment I observed my friend’s behaviour atten
tively; and I could then perceive that his partiality for Miss Bennet was
 beyond what I had ever witnessed in him. Your sister I also watched.
 Her look and manners were open, cheerful, and engaging as ever, but
 without any symptom of peculiar regard, and I remained convinced
 from the evening’s scrutiny, that though she received his attentions
 with pleasure, she did not invite them by any participation of senti
ment. If you have not been mistaken here, I must have been in error.
 Your superior knowledge of your sister must make the latter probable.
 If it be so, if I have been misled by such error to inflict pain on her, your
 resentment has not been unreasonable. But I shall not scruple to assert,
 that the serenity of your sister’s countenance and air was suchas might
 have given the mostacute observer a conviction that, however amiable
 her temper, herheart wasnotlikelytobeeasilytouched. ThatIwasde
sirous of believing her indifferent is certain—but I will venture to say
 that my investigation and decisions are not usually influenced by my
 hopes or fears. I did not believe her to be indifferent because I wished
 it; I believed it on impartial conviction, as truly as I wished it in rea
son. My objections to the marriage were not merely those which I last
 night acknowledged to have the utmost force of passion to put aside,
 in myowncase; the wantof connection could not be so great an evil to
 myfriend as to me. But there were other causes of repugnance; causes
 which, though still existing, and existing to an equal degree in both in
stances, I had myself endeavoured to forget, because they were not im
mediately before me. These causes must be stated, though briefly. The
 situation of your mother’s family, though objectionable, was nothing
 in comparison to that total want of propriety so frequently, so almost
 uniformly betrayed by herself, by your three younger sisters, and occa
sionally even by yourfather. Pardonme. Itpainsmetooffendyou. But
 amidst your concern for the defects of your nearest relations, and your
 displeasure at this representation of them, let it give you consolation to
 consider that, to have conducted yourselves so as to avoid any share of
 the like censure, is praise no less generally bestowed on you and your
 elder sister, than it is honourable to the sense and disposition of both.
 138
I will only say farther that from what passed that evening, my opinion
 of all parties was confirmed, and every inducement heightened which
 could have led me before, to preserve my friend from what I esteemed
 a most unhappy connection. He left Netherfield for London, on the
 day following, as you, I am certain, remember, with the design of soon
 returning.
 “The part which I acted is now to be explained. His sisters’ uneasi
ness had been equally excited with my own; our coincidence of feeling
 was soon discovered, and, alike sensible that no time was to be lost in
 detaching their brother, we shortly resolved on joining him directly in
 London. We accordingly went—and there I readily engaged in the of
f
 ice of pointing out to my friend the certain evils of such a choice. I de
scribed, and enforced them earnestly. But, however this remonstrance
 might have staggered or delayed his determination, I do not suppose
 that it would ultimately have prevented the marriage, had it not been
 seconded by the assurance that I hesitated not in giving, of your sis
ter’s indifference. He had before believed her to return his affection
 with sincere, if not with equal regard. But Bingley has great natural
 modesty, with a stronger dependence on my judgement than on his
 own. Toconvince him, therefore, that he had deceived himself, was no
 very difficult point. To persuade him against returning into Hertford
shire, when that conviction had been given, was scarcely the work of a
 moment. I cannot blame myself for having done thus much. There is
 but one part of myconductinthewholeaffair on which I donot reflect
 with satisfaction; it is that I condescended to adopt the measures of art
 so far as to conceal from him your sister’s being in town. I knew it my
self, as it was known to Miss Bingley; but her brother is even yet igno
rant of it. That they might have met without ill consequence is perhaps
 probable; but his regard did not appear to me enough extinguished for
 him to see her without some danger. Perhaps this concealment, this
 disguise was beneath me; it is done, however, and it was done for the
 best. On this subject I have nothing more to say, no other apology to of
fer. If I have wounded your sister’s feelings, it was unknowingly done
 andthoughthemotiveswhichgovernedmemaytoyouverynaturally
 appear insufficient, I have not yet learnt to condemn them.
 “With respect to that other, more weighty accusation, of having in
jured Mr. Wickham, I can only refute it by laying before you the whole
 of his connection with my family. Of what he has particularly accused
 meIamignorant; but of the truth of what I shall relate, I can summon
 more than one witness of undoubted veracity.
 “Mr. Wickham is the son of a very respectable man, who had for
 139
many years the management of all the Pemberley estates, and whose
 good conduct in the discharge of his trust naturally inclined my fa
ther to be of service to him; and on George Wickham, who was his
 godson, his kindness was therefore liberally bestowed. My father sup
ported him at school, and afterwards at Cambridge—most important
 assistance, as his own father, always poor from the extravagance of his
 wife, would have been unable to give him a gentleman’s education.
 Myfather was not only fond of this young man’s society, whose man
ner were always engaging; he had also the highest opinion of him, and
 hoping the church would be his profession, intended to provide for
 him in it. As for myself, it is many, many years since I first began to
 think of him in a very different manner. The vicious propensities—the
 want of principle, which he was careful to guard from the knowledge
 of his best friend, could not escape the observation of a young man
 of nearly the same age with himself, and who had opportunities of
 seeing him in unguarded moments, which Mr. Darcy could not have.
 Here again shall give you pain—to what degree you only can tell. But
 whatever may be the sentiments which Mr. Wickham has created, a
 suspicion of their nature shall not prevent me from unfolding his real
 character—it adds even another motive.
 “My excellent father died about five years ago; and his attachment
 to Mr. Wickhamwastothelastsosteady, thatinhiswill heparticularly
 recommendedittome,topromotehisadvancementinthebestmanner
 that his profession might allow—and if he took orders, desired that a
 valuable family living might be his as soon as it became vacant. There
 was also a legacy of one thousand pounds. His own father did not
 long survive mine, and within half a year from these events, Mr. Wick
ham wrote to inform me that, having finally resolved against taking
 orders, he hoped I should not think it unreasonable for him to expect
 some more immediate pecuniary advantage, in lieu of the preferment,
 by which he could not be benefited. He had some intention, he added,
 of studying law, and I must be aware that the interest of one thousand
 pounds would be a very insufficient support therein. I rather wished,
 than believed him to be sincere; but, at any rate, was perfectly ready
 to accede to his proposal. I knew that Mr. Wickham ought not to be
 a clergyman; the business was therefore soon settled—he resigned all
 claim to assistance in the church, were it possible that he could ever
 be in a situation to receive it, and accepted in return three thousand
 pounds. All connection between us seemed now dissolved. I thought
 too ill of him to invite him to Pemberley, or admit his society in town.
 In town I believe he chiefly lived, but his studying the law was a mere
 140
pretence, and being now free from all restraint, his life was a life of
 idleness and dissipation. For about three years I heard little of him;
 but on the decease of the incumbent of the living which had been de
signed for him, he applied to me again by letter for the presentation.
 His circumstances, he assured me, and I had no difficulty in believing
 it, were exceedingly bad. He had found the law a most unprofitable
 study, and was now absolutely resolved on being ordained, if I would
 present him to the living in question—of which he trusted there could
 belittle doubt, as he waswellassuredthatIhadnootherpersontopro
vide for, and I could not have forgotten my revered father’s intentions.
 You will hardly blame me for refusing to comply with this entreaty, or
 for resisting every repetition to it. His resentment was in proportion
 to the distress of his circumstances—and he was doubtless as violent
 in his abuse of me to others as in his reproaches to myself. After this
 period every appearance of acquaintance was dropped. How he lived
 I knownot. But last summer he was again most painfully obtruded on
 mynotice.
 “I must now mention a circumstance which I would wish to for
get myself, and which no obligation less than the present should in
duce me to unfold to any human being. Having said thus much, I feel
 no doubt of your secrecy. My sister, who is more than ten years my
 junior, was left to the guardianship of my mother’s nephew, Colonel
 Fitzwilliam, and myself. About a year ago, she was taken from school,
 and an establishment formed for her in London; and last summer she
 went with the lady who presided over it, to Ramsgate; and thither also
 went Mr. Wickham, undoubtedly by design; for there proved to have
 been a prior acquaintance between him and Mrs. Younge, in whose
 character we were most unhappily deceived; and by her connivance
 and aid, he so far recommended himself to Georgiana, whose affec
tionate heart retained a strong impression of his kindness to her as a
 child, that she was persuaded to believe herself in love, and to consent
 to an elopement. She was then but fifteen, which must be her excuse;
 and after stating her imprudence, I am happy to add, that I owed the
 knowledge of it to herself. I joined them unexpectedly a day or two
 before the intended elopement, and then Georgiana, unable to support
 the idea of grieving and offending a brother whom she almost looked
 up to as a father, acknowledged the whole to me. You may imagine
 what I felt and how I acted. Regard for my sister’s credit and feelings
 prevented any public exposure; but I wrote to Mr. Wickham, who left
 the place immediately, and Mrs. Younge was of course removed from
 her charge. Mr. Wickham’s chief object was unquestionably my sister’s
 141
fortune, which is thirty thousand pounds; but I cannot help supposing
 that the hope of revenging himself on me was a strong inducement.
 His revenge would have been complete indeed.
 “This, madam, is a faithful narrative of every event in which we
 have been concerned together; and if you do not absolutely reject it
 as false, you will, I hope, acquit me henceforth of cruelty towards Mr.
 Wickham. I know not in what manner, under what form of falsehood
 he had imposed on you; but his success is not perhaps to be wondered
 at. Ignorant as you previously were of everything concerning either,
 detection could not be in your power, and suspicion certainly not in
 your inclination.
 “You maypossibly wonderwhyallthis wasnottold youlast night;
 but I was not then master enough of myself to know what could or
 ought to be revealed. For the truth of everything here related, I can
 appeal more particularly to the testimony of Colonel Fitzwilliam, who,
 from our near relationship and constant intimacy, and, still more, as
 one of the executors of my father’s will, has been unavoidably ac
quainted with every particular of these transactions. If your abhor
rence of me should make my assertions valueless, you cannot be pre
vented by the same cause from confiding in my cousin; and that there
 maybethepossibilityofconsultinghim, Ishallendeavourtofindsome
 opportunity of putting this letter in your hands in the course of the
 morning. I will only add, God bless you.
 “Fitzwilliam Darcy
This must be false! This cannot be! This must be the grossest
 falsehood!
Howdespicably I have acted!
I, who have prided my
self on my discernment! I, who have valued myself on my abilities!
 whohaveoften disdained the generous candour of my sister, and grat
ified my vanity in useless or blameable mistrust! How humiliating is
 this discovery! Yet, how just a humiliation! Had I been in love, I could
 not have been more wretchedly blind! But vanity, not love, has been
 my folly. Pleased with the preference of one, and offended by the ne
glect of the other, on the very beginning of our acquaintance, I have
 courted prepossession and ignorance, and driven reason away, where
 145
either were concerned. Till this moment I never knew myself.
Whatwouldshehavesaid? how
 would she have behaved?
Iassure
 you, I feel it exceedingly,
I believe no one feels
 the loss of friends so much as I do. But I am particularly attached to
 these young men, and know them to be so much attached to me! They
 were excessively sorry to go! But so they always are. The dear Colonel
 rallied his spirits tolerably till just at last; but Darcy seemed to feel it
 most acutely, more, I think, than last year. His attachment to Rosings
 certainly increases.
But if that is the case, you must write to your mother and beg that
 you may stay a little longer. Mrs. Collins will be very glad of your
 company, I am sure.
I am much obliged to your ladyship for your kind invitation,
but it is not in my power to accept it. I must be
 in town next Saturday.
Why, at that rate, you will have been here only six weeks. I ex
pected you to stay two months. I told Mrs. Collins so before you came.
 There can be no occasion for your going so soon. Mrs. Bennet could
 certainly spare you for another fortnight.
But my father cannot. He wrote last week to hurry my return.
Oh! your father of course may spare you, if your mother can.
 Daughters are never of so much consequence to a father. And if you
 will stay another month complete, it will be in my power to take one
 of you as far as London, for I am going there early in June, for a week;
 and as Dawson does not object to the barouche-box, there will be very
 good room for one of you—and indeed, if the weather should happen
 to be cool, I should not object to taking you both, as you are neither of
 you large.
You are all kindness, madam; but I believe we must abide by our
 original plan.
Mrs. Collins, you must send a
 servant with them. You know I always speak my mind, and I cannot
 bear the idea of two young women travelling post by themselves. It
 is highly improper. You must contrive to send somebody. I have the
 greatest dislike in the world to that sort of thing. Young women should
 always be properly guarded and attended, according to their situation
 in life. When my niece Georgiana went to Ramsgate last summer, I
 madeapoint of her having two men-servants go with her. Miss Darcy,
 the daughter of Mr. Darcy, of Pemberley, and Lady Anne, could not
 have appeared with propriety in a different manner. I am excessively
 attentive to all those things. You must send John with the youngladies,
 Mrs. Collins. I am glad it occurred to me to mention it; for it would
 really be discreditable to you to let them go alone.
Myuncle is to send a servant for us.
Oh! Your uncle! He keeps a man-servant, does he? I am very
 glad you have somebody who thinks of these things. Where shall you
 change horses? Oh! Bromley, of course. If you mention my name at
 the Bell, you will be attended to.
I know not, Miss Elizabeth,
whether Mrs. Collins has
 yet expressed her sense of your kindness in coming to us; but I am
 very certain you will not leave the house without receiving her thanks
 for it. The favor of your company has been much felt, I assure you. We
 know how little there is to tempt anyone to our humble abode. Our
 plain manner of living, our small rooms and few domestics, and the
 little we see of the world, must make Hunsford extremely dull to a
 young lady like yourself; but I hope you will believe us grateful for
 the condescension, and that we have done everything in our power to
 prevent your spending your time unpleasantly.
It gives me great pleasure to hear that you have passed your time
 not disagreeably. We have certainly done our best; and most fortu
nately having it in our power to introduce you to very superior society,
 and, from our connection with Rosings, the frequent means of vary
ing the humble home scene, I think we may flatter ourselves that your
 Hunsford visit cannot have been entirely irksome. Our situation with
 regard to Lady Catherine’s family is indeed the sort of extraordinary
 advantage and blessing which few can boast. You see on what a foot
ing we are. You see how continually we are engaged there. In truth I
 must acknowledge that, with all the disadvantages of this humble par
sonage, Ishouldnotthinkanyoneabidinginitanobjectofcompassion,
 while they are sharers of our intimacy at Rosings.
You may, in fact, carry a very favourable report of us into Hert
fordshire, my dear cousin. I flatter myself at least that you will be able
 to do so. Lady Catherine’s great attentions to Mrs. Collins you have
 been a daily witness of; and altogether I trust it does not appear that
 your friend has drawn an unfortunate—but on this point it will be as
 150
well to be silent. Only let me assure you, my dear Miss Elizabeth, that
 I can from myheart most cordially wish you equal felicity in marriage.
 Mydear Charlotte and I have but one mind and one way of thinking.
 There is in everything a most remarkable resemblance of character and
 ideas between us. We seem to have been designed for each other.
But,
you will of course wish to have your humble
 respects delivered to them, withyourgratefulthanksfortheirkindness
 to you while you have been here.
Good gracious!
it
 seems but a day or two since we first came! and yet how many things
 have happened!
Agreat many indeed,
We have dined nine times at Rosings, besides drinking tea there
 twice! How much I shall have to tell!
AndhowmuchIshallhavetoconceal!
Is not this nice? Is not this an agreeable surprise?
And we mean to treat you all,
but you must lend
 us the money, for we have just spent ours at the shop out there.
Look here, I have bought this bonnet. I do
 not think it is very pretty; but I thought I might as well buy it as not. I
 shall pull it to pieces as soon as I get home, and see if I can make it up
 any better.
Oh! but there were two or three much uglier in the shop;
 and when I have bought some prettier-coloured satin to trim it with
 fresh, I think it will be very tolerable. Besides, it will not much signify
 what one wears this summer, after the ——shire have left Meryton,
 and they are going in a fortnight.
Are they indeed!
They are going to be encamped near Brighton; and I do so want
 papa to take us all there for the summer! It would be such a delicious
 scheme; and I dare say would hardly cost anything at all. Mamma
 wouldlike to gotooofall things! Only think whatamiserable summer
 else we shall have!
Yes,
that would be a delightful scheme in
deed, and completely do for us at once. Good Heaven! Brighton, and
 a whole campful of soldiers, to us, who have been overset already by
 one poor regiment of militia, and the monthly balls of Meryton!
NowIhavegot some news for you,
What do you think? It is excellent news—capital news—and
 about a certain person we all like!
Aye, that is just like your formality and discretion. You thought
 the waiter must not hear, as if he cared! I dare say he often hears worse
 things said than I am going to say. But he is an ugly fellow! I am glad
 he is gone. I never saw such a long chin in my life. Well, but now for
 my news; it is about dear Wickham; too good for the waiter, is it not?
 Thereis nodangerofWickham’smarryingMaryKing. There’sforyou!
 She is gone down to her uncle at Liverpool: gone to stay. Wickham is
 safe.
AndMaryKingissafe!
safe from a connection
 imprudent as to fortune.
She is a great fool for going away, if she liked him.
But I hope there is no strong attachment on either side,
I am sure there is not on his. I will answer for it, he never cared
 three straws about her—who could about such a nasty little freckled
 thing?
How nicely we are all crammed in,
I am glad I
 bought my bonnet, if it is only for the fun of having another bandbox!
 Well, now let us be quite comfortable and snug, and talk and laugh all
 the wayhome. Andinthefirstplace, let us hear what has happened to
 you all since you went away. Have you seen any pleasant men? Have
 153
you had any flirting? I was in great hopes that one of you would have
 got a husband before you came back. Jane will be quite an old maid
 soon, I declare. She is almost three-and-twenty! Lord, how ashamed
 I should be of not being married before three-and-twenty! My aunt
 Phillips wants you so to get husbands, you can’t think. She says Lizzy
 had better have taken Mr. Collins; but I do not think there would have
 been any fun in it. Lord! how I should like to be married before any
 of you; and then I would chaperon you about to all the balls. Dear me!
 we had such a good piece of fun the other day at Colonel Forster’s.
 Kitty and me were to spend the day there, and Mrs. Forster promised
 to have a little dance in the evening; (by the bye, Mrs. Forster and me
 are such friends!) and so she asked the two Harringtons to come, but
 Harriet was ill, and so Pen was forced to come by herself; and then,
 what do you think we did? We dressed up Chamberlayne in woman’s
 clothes on purpose to pass for a lady, only think what fun! Not a soul
 knew of it, but Colonel and Mrs. Forster, and Kitty and me, except my
 aunt, for we were forced to borrow one of her gowns; and you cannot
 imagine how well he looked! When Denny, and Wickham, and Pratt,
 and two or three more of the men came in, they did not know him in
 the least. Lord! how I laughed! and so did Mrs. Forster. I thought
 I should have died. And that made the men suspect something, and
 then they soon found out what was the matter.
I am glad you are come back, Lizzy.
Oh! Mary,
I wish you had gone with us, for we had
 154
such fun! As we went along, Kitty and I drew up the blinds, and pre
tended there was nobody in the coach; and I should have gone so all
 the way, if Kitty had not beensick; and whenwegottotheGeorge, Ido
 think webehavedveryhandsomely, forwetreatedtheotherthreewith
 the nicest cold luncheon in the world, and if you would have gone, we
 would have treated you too. And then when we came away it was
 such fun! I thought we never should have got into the coach. I was
 ready to die of laughter. And then we were so merryall the wayhome!
 wetalked and laughed so loud, that anybody might have heard us ten
 miles off!
Far be it from me, my dear sis
ter, to depreciate such pleasures! They would doubtless be congenial
 with the generality of female minds. But I confess they would have no
 charms for me—I should infinitely prefer a book.
His being so sure of succeeding was wrong,
and cer
tainly ought not to have appeared; but consider how much it must
 increase his disappointment!
Indeed,
I am heartily sorry for him; but he has
 other feelings, which will probably soon drive away his regard for me.
 You donot blame me, however, for refusing him?
Blame you! Oh, no.
But you blame me for having spoken so warmly of Wickham?
No—Idonotknowthatyouwerewronginsayingwhatyoudid.
But you will knowit, when I tell you what happened the very next
 day.
This will not do,
you never will be able to make
 both of them good for anything. Take your choice, but you must be
 satisfied with only one. There is but such a quantity of merit between
 them; just enough to makeonegoodsortofman; andoflateithasbeen
 shifting about pretty much. For my part, I am inclined to believe it all
 Darcy’s; but you shall do as you choose.
I do not know when I have been more shocked,
Wick
ham so very bad! It is almost past belief. And poor Mr. Darcy! Dear
 Lizzy, only consider what he must have suffered. Such a disappoint
ment! and with the knowledge of your ill opinion, too! and having to
 relate such a thing of his sister! It is really too distressing. I am sure
 you must feel it so.
Oh! no, my regret and compassion are all done away by seeing
 you so full of both. I know you will do him such ample justice, that
 I am growing every moment more unconcerned and indifferent. Your
 profusion makes me saving; and if you lament over him much longer,
 myheart will be as light as a feather.
Poor Wickham! there is such an expression of goodness in his
 countenance! such an openness and gentleness in his manner!
There certainly was some great mismanagement in the education
 of those two young men. One has got all the goodness, and the other
 all the appearance of it.
I never thought Mr. Darcy so deficient in the appearance of it as you
 used to do.
And yet I meant to be uncommonly clever in taking so decided
 a dislike to him, without any reason. It is such a spur to one’s genius,
 such anopeningforwit, tohaveadislikeofthatkind. Onemaybecon
tinually abusive without saying anything just; but one cannot always
 be laughing at a man without now and then stumbling on something
 witty.
Lizzy, when you first read that letter, I am sure you could not treat
 the matter as you do now.
Indeed, I could not. I was uncomfortable enough, I may say un
happy. And with no one to speak to about what I felt, no Jane to com
fort me andsaythat I had not beensoveryweakandvainandnonsen
sical as I knew I had! Oh! how I wanted you!
Howunfortunate that you should have used such very strong ex
pressions in speaking of WickhamtoMr.Darcy, fornowtheydoappear
 wholly undeserved.
Certainly. But the misfortune of speaking with bitterness is a most
 natural consequence of the prejudices I had been encouraging. There
 is one point on which I want your advice. I want to be told whether I
 ought, or ought not, to make our acquaintances in general understand
 Wickham’s character.
Surely there can be
 no occasion for exposing him so dreadfully. What is your opinion?
That it ought not to be attempted. Mr. Darcy has not authorised
 me to make his communication public. On the contrary, every partic
ular relative to his sister was meant to be kept as much as possible to
 myself; and if I endeavour to undeceive people as to the rest of his con
duct, who will believe me? The general prejudice against Mr. Darcy is
 so violent, that it would be the death of half the good people in Mery
ton to attempt to place him in an amiable light. I am not equal to it.
 157
Wickham will soon be gone; and therefore it will not signify to any
one here what he really is. Some time hence it will be all found out,
 and then we may laugh at their stupidity in not knowing it before. At
 present I will say nothing about it.
Youarequite right. To have his errors made public might ruin him
 for ever. He is now, perhaps, sorry for what he has done, and anxious
 to re-establish a character. We must not make him desperate.
And then,
if that very improbable event should ever take place, I shall merely
 be able to tell what Bingley may tell in a much more agreeable manner
 himself. The liberty of communication cannot be mine till it has lost all
 its value!
Well, Lizzy,
what is your opinion now
 of this sad business of Jane’s? For my part, I am determined never to
 speak of it again to anybody. I told my sister Phillips so the other day.
 But I cannot find out that Jane saw anything of him in London. Well,
 he is a very undeserving young man—andIdonotsupposethere’sthe
 least chance in the world of her ever getting him now. There is no talk
 of his coming to Netherfield again in the summer; and I have inquired
 of everybody, too, who is likely to know.
I do not believe he will ever live at Netherfield any more.
Oh well! it is just as he chooses. Nobody wants him to come.
 158
Though I shall always say he used my daughter extremely ill; and if
 I was her, I would not have put up with it. Well, my comfort is, I am
 sure Jane will die of a broken heart; and then he will be sorry for what
 he has done.
Well, Lizzy,
and so the
 Collinses live very comfortable, do they? Well, well, I only hope it will
 last. And what sort of table do they keep? Charlotte is an excellent
 manager, I dare say. If she is half as sharp as her mother, she is saving
 enough. There is nothing extravagant in their housekeeping, I dare
 say.
No, nothing at all.
A great deal of good management, depend upon it. Yes, yes. they
 will take care not to outrun their income. They will never be distressed
 for money. Well, much good may it do them! And so, I suppose, they
 often talk of having Longbourn when your father is dead. They look
 upon it as quite their own, I dare say, whenever that happens.
It was a subject which they could not mention before me.
No; it would have been strange if they had; but I make no doubt
 they often talk of it between themselves. Well, if they can be easy with
 an estate that is not lawfully their own, so much the better. I should be
 ashamed of having one that was only entailed on me.
Good Heaven! what is to become of us? What are we to do?
How can you be
 smiling so, Lizzy?
I am sure,
I cried for two days together when Colonel
 Miller’s regiment went away. I thought I should have broken my
 heart.
I am sure I shall break mine,
If one could but go to Brighton!
Oh, yes!—if one could but go to Brighton! But papa is so disagree
able.
Alittle sea-bathing would set me up forever.
AndmyauntPhillips is sure it would do me a great deal of good,
I cannot see why Mrs. Forster should not ask me as well as Lydia,
Though I am not her particular friend. I have just as much
 right to be asked as she has, and more too, for I am two years older.
Lydia will never be easy until she has exposed herself in some
 public place or other, and we can never expect her to do it with so little
 expense or inconvenience to her family as under the present circum
stances.
If you were aware,
of the very great disadvan
tage to us all which must arise from the public notice of Lydia’s un
guarded and imprudent manner—nay, which has already arisen from
 it, I am sure you would judge differently in the affair.
Already arisen?
What, has she frightened
 away some of your lovers? Poor little Lizzy! But do not be cast down.
 Such squeamish youths as cannot bear to be connected with a little
 absurdity are not worth a regret. Come, let me see the list of pitiful
 fellows who have been kept aloof by Lydia’s folly.
Indeed youaremistaken. I have nosuchinjuries to resent. It is not
 of particular, but of general evils, which I am now complaining. Our
 importance, our respectability in the world must be affected by the
 wild volatility, the assurance and disdain of all restraint which mark
 Lydia’s character. Excuse me, for I must speak plainly. If you, my dear
 father, will not take the trouble of checking her exuberant spirits, and
 of teaching her that her present pursuits are not to be the business of
 her life, she will soon be beyond the reach of amendment. Her charac
ter will be fixed, and she will, at sixteen, be the most determined flirt
 that ever made herself or her family ridiculous; a flirt, too, in the worst
 and meanest degree of flirtation; without any attraction beyond youth
 and a tolerable person; and, from the ignorance and emptiness of her
 mind, wholly unable to ward off any portion of that universal con
tempt which her rage for admiration will excite. In this danger Kitty
 also is comprehended. She will follow wherever Lydia leads. Vain, ig
norant, idle, and absolutely uncontrolled! Oh! my dear father, can you
 suppose it possible that they will not be censured and despised wher
ever they are known, and that their sisters will not be often involved in
 the disgrace?
Donotmakeyourselfuneasy,mylove. WhereveryouandJaneare
 known you must be respected and valued; and you will not appear to
 less advantage for having a couple of—or I may say, three—very silly
 sisters. We shall have no peace at Longbourn if Lydia does not go to
 161
Brighton. Let her go, then. Colonel Forster is a sensible man, and will
 keep her out of any real mischief; and she is luckily too poor to be an
 object of prey to anybody. At Brighton she will be of less importance
 even as a common flirt than she has been here. The officers will find
 womenbetter worth their notice. Let us hope, therefore, that her being
 there may teach her her own insignificance. At any rate, she cannot
 grow many degrees worse, without authorising us to lock her up for
 the rest of her life.
Howlong did you say he was at Rosings?
Nearly three weeks.
And yousawhimfrequently?
Yes, almost every day.
His manners are very different from his cousin’s.
Yes, very different. But I think Mr. Darcy improves upon acquain
tance.
Indeed!
And pray, may I ask?—
Is it in address that he improves? Has he deigned to add aught
 of civility to his ordinary style?—for I dare not hope,
that he is improved in essentials.
Oh, no!
In essentials, I believe, he is very much
 what he ever was.
When I said that he improved on acquaintance, I did not mean
 that his mind or his manners were in a state of improvement, but that,
 from knowing him better, his disposition was better understood.
You, who so well know my feeling towards Mr. Darcy, will read
ily comprehend how sincerely I must rejoice that he is wise enough to
 assume even the appearance of what is right. His pride, in that direc
tion, may be of service, if not to himself, to many others, for it must
 only deter him from such foul misconduct as I have suffered by. I only
 fear that the sort of cautiousness to which you, I imagine, have been
 alluding, is merely adopted on his visits to his aunt, of whose good
 opinion and judgement he stands much in awe. His fear of her has al
ways operated, I know, when they were together; and a good deal is to
 be imputed to his wish of forwarding the match with Miss de Bourgh,
 which I am certain he has very much at heart.
But it is fortunate,
that I have something to wish
 for. Were the whole arrangement complete, my disappointment would
 be certain. But here, by carrying with me one ceaseless source of regret
 in my sister’s absence, I may reasonably hope to have all my expec
tations of pleasure realised. A scheme of which every part promises
 delight can never be successful; and general disappointment is only
 warded off by the defence of some little peculiar vexation.
But surely,
I may enter his county with
out impunity, and rob it of a few petrified spars without his perceiving
 me.
My love, should not you like to see a place of which you have
 heard so much?
a place, too, with which so many
 of your acquaintances are connected. Wickham passed all his youth
 there, you know.
If it were merely a fine house
 richly furnished,
I should not care about it myself; but the
 grounds are delightful. They have some of the finest woods in the
 country.
Andofthisplace,
I might have been mistress! With
 these rooms I might now have been familiarly acquainted! Instead
 169
of viewing them as a stranger, I might have rejoiced in them as my
 own, and welcomed to them as visitors my uncle and aunt. But no,
that could never be; my uncle and aunt would
 have been lost to me; I should not have been allowed to invite them.
But we expect him
 to-morrow, with a large party of friends.
He is now
 gone into the army,
but I am afraid he has turned out
 very wild.
And that,
is my master—andverylikehim. Itwasdrawnatthesametime
 as the other—about eight years ago.
I have heard much of your master’s fine person,
it is a handsome face. But, Lizzy, you can
 tell us whether it is like or not.
Does that young lady know Mr. Darcy?
A little.
And donot youthink him a very handsome gentleman, ma’am?
Yes, very handsome.
I am sure I know none so handsome; but in the gallery upstairs
 you will see a finer, larger picture of him than this. This room was my
 late master’s favourite room, and these miniatures are just as they used
 to be then. He was very fond of them.
And is Miss Darcy as handsome as her brother?
Oh! yes—the handsomest young lady that ever was seen; and so
 accomplished!—She plays and sings all day long. In the next room is
 a newinstrument just come down for her—a present from my master;
 she comes here to-morrow with him.
Is your master much at Pemberley in the course of the year?
Not so muchasIcould wish, sir; but I dare say he may spend half
 his timehere; andMissDarcyisalwaysdownforthesummermonths.
Except,
when she goes to Ramsgate.
If your master would marry, you might see more of him.
Yes, sir; but I do not know when that will be. I do not know who
 is good enough for him.
It
 is very much to his credit, I am sure, that you should think so.
I say no more than the truth, and everybody will say that knows
 him,
I have never known a cross word from him in my life, and
 I have known him ever since he was four years old.
There are very few people of whom so much can be said. You are
 lucky in having such a master.
Yes, sir, I know I am. If I were to go through the world, I could
 not meet with a better. But I have always observed, that they who are
 good-natured when children, are good-natured when they grow up;
 and hewasalwaysthesweetest-tempered, most generous-hearted boy
 in the world.
Can this be Mr. Darcy?
His father was an excellent man,
Yes, ma’am, that he was indeed; and his son will be just like him—
 just as affable to the poor.
He is the best landlord, and the best master,
that ever
 lived; not like the wild young men nowadays, who think of nothing
 but themselves. There is not one of his tenants or servants but will
 give him a good name. Some people call him proud; but I am sure I
 never saw anything of it. To my fancy, it is only because he does not
 rattle away like other young men.
In what an amiable light does this place him!
This fine account of him,
is
 not quite consistent with his behaviour to our poor friend.
Perhaps we might be deceived.
That is not very likely; our authority was too good.
He is certainly a good brother,
And this is always the way with him,
Whatever can give his sister any pleasure is sure to be done in a mo
ment. There is nothing he would not do for her.
delightful,
charming,
Whatwillbehissurprise,
when he knows who they are? He takes them now for people of
 fashion.
Why is he so altered?
 Fromwhatcanitproceed? Itcannotbeforme—itcannotbeformysake
 that his manners are thus softened. My reproofs at Hunsford could not
 work such a change as this. It is impossible that he should still love
 me.
for your housekeeper,
informed us that
 you would certainly not be here till to-morrow; and indeed, before we
 left Bakewell, we understood that you were not immediately expected
 in the country.
They will join me early to-morrow,
and among them
 are some who will claim an acquaintance with you—Mr. Bingley and
 his sisters.
There is also one other person in the party,
who more particularly wishes to be known to you. Will you
 allow me, or doIasktoomuch, tointroduce mysister to your acquain
tance during your stay at Lambton?
Heisperfectly well behaved, polite, and unassuming,
There is something a little stately in him, to be sure,
but it is confinedtohisair, andisnotunbecoming. Icannowsay
 with the housekeeper, that though some people may call him proud, I
 have seen nothing of it.
I was never more surprised than by his behaviour to us. It was
 more than civil; it was really attentive; and there was no necessity for
 such attention. His acquaintance with Elizabeth was very trifling.
To be sure, Lizzy,
he is not so handsome as Wick
ham; or, rather, he has not Wickham’s countenance, for his features are
 perfectly good. But how came you to tell me that he was so disagree
able?
But perhaps he may be a little whimsical in his civilities,
Your great men often are; and therefore I shall not take him
 at his word, as he might change his mind another day, and warn me
 off his grounds.
From what we have seen of him,
I re
ally should not have thought that he could have behaved in so cruel
 a way by anybody as he has done by poor Wickham. He has not an
 ill-natured look. On the contrary, there is something pleasing about his
 mouth whenhespeaks. Andthere is something of dignity in his coun
tenance that would notgiveoneanunfavourableideaofhisheart. But,
 to besure, the goodladywhoshowedushishousedidgivehimamost
 f
 laming character! I could hardly help laughing aloud sometimes. But
 he is a liberal master, I suppose, and that in the eye of a servant com
178
prehends every virtue.
was a very long time
 since he had had the pleasure of seeing her;
It is above eight months. We have not met since the
 26th of November, when wewereall dancing together at Netherfield.
Pray, Miss Eliza, are not the ——shire Militia removed from Mery
ton? They must be a great loss to your family.
HowveryillMissElizaBennetlooksthismorning,Mr.Darcy,
I never in my life saw anyonesomuchalteredassheissincethe
 winter. She is grown so brown and coarse! Louisa and I were agreeing
 that we should not have known her again.
For myownpart,
I must confess that I never could
 see any beauty in her. Her face is too thin; her complexion has no
 brilliancy; and her features are not at all handsome. Her nose wants
 character—there is nothing marked in its lines. Her teeth are tolerable,
 but not out of the commonway; andasforhereyes, which have some
times been called so fine, I could never see anything extraordinary in
 them. They have a sharp, shrewish look, which I do not like at all; and
 in her air altogether there is a self-sufficiency without fashion, which is
 intolerable.
I remember, when we first knew her in Hertfordshire, how
 amazed we all were to find that she was a reputed beauty; and I par
ticularly recollect your saying one night, after they had been dining at
 187
Netherfield, ‘She a beauty!—Ishouldassooncallhermotherawit.’ But
 afterwards she seemed to improve on you, and I believe you thought
 her rather pretty at one time.
Yes,
but
 that was only when I first saw her, for it is many months since I have
 considered her as one of the handsomest women of my acquaintance.
Since writing the above, dearest Lizzy, something has occurred
 of a most unexpected and serious nature; but I am afraid of alarming
 you—be assured that we are all well. What I have to say relates to
 poor Lydia. An express came at twelve last night, just as we were all
 gone to bed, from Colonel Forster, to inform us that she was gone off
 to Scotland with one of his officers; to own the truth, with Wickham!
 188
Imagine our surprise. To Kitty, however, it does not seem so wholly
 unexpected. I am very, very sorry. So imprudent a match on both
 sides! But I am willing to hope the best, and that his character has been
 misunderstood. Thoughtless and indiscreet I can easily believe him,
 but this step (and let us rejoice over it) marks nothing bad at heart.
 His choice is disinterested at least, for he must know my father can
 give her nothing. Our poor mother is sadly grieved. My father bears it
 better. How thankful am I that we never let them know what has been
 said against him; we must forget it ourselves. They were off Saturday
 night abouttwelve, asisconjectured, butwerenotmissedtillyesterday
 morning at eight. The express was sent off directly. My dear Lizzy,
 they must have passed within ten miles of us. Colonel Forster gives
 us reason to expect him here soon. Lydia left a few lines for his wife,
 informing her of their intention. I must conclude, for I cannot be long
 from my poor mother. I am afraid you will not be able to make it out,
 but I hardly know what I have written.
By this time, my dearest sister, you have received my hurried let
ter; I wish this may be more intelligible, but though not confined for
 time, my head is so bewildered that I cannot answer for being coher
ent. Dearest Lizzy, I hardly know what I would write, but I have bad
 news for you, and it cannot be delayed. Imprudent as the marriage
 between Mr. Wickham and our poor Lydia would be, we are now anx
ious to be assured it has taken place, for there is but too much reason
 to fear they are not gone to Scotland. Colonel Forster came yesterday,
 having left Brighton the day before, not many hours after the express.
 Though Lydia’s short letter to Mrs. F. gave them to understand that
 they were going to Gretna Green, something was dropped by Denny
 expressing his belief that W. never intended to go there, or to marry
 Lydia at all, which was repeated to Colonel F., who, instantly taking
 the alarm, set off from B. intending to trace their route. He did trace
 themeasily to Clapham, but no further; for on entering that place, they
 removed into a hackney coach, and dismissed the chaise that brought
 them from Epsom. All that is known after this is, that they were seen
 to continue the London road. I know not what to think. After mak
ing every possible inquiry on that side London, Colonel F. came on
 into Hertfordshire, anxiously renewing them at all the turnpikes, and
 189
at the inns in Barnet and Hatfield, but without any success—no such
 people had been seen to pass through. With the kindest concern he
 came on to Longbourn, and broke his apprehensions to us in a man
ner most creditable to his heart. I am sincerely grieved for him and
 Mrs. F., but no one can throw any blame on them. Our distress, my
 dear Lizzy, is very great. My father and mother believe the worst, but I
 cannot think so ill of him. Many circumstances might make it more eli
gible for them to be married privately in town than to pursue their first
 plan; and even if he could form such a design against a young woman
 of Lydia’s connections, which is not likely, can I suppose her so lost to
 everything? Impossible! I grieve to find, however, that Colonel F. is
 not disposed to depend upon their marriage; he shook his head when
 I expressed my hopes, and said he fear W. was not a man to be trusted.
 Mypoormother is really ill, and keeps her room. Could she exert her
self, it would be better; but this is not to be expected. And as to my
 father, I never in my life saw him so affected. Poor Kitty has anger
 for having concealed their attachment; but as it was a matter of con
f
 idence, one cannot wonder. I am truly glad, dearest Lizzy, that you
 have been spared something of these distressing scenes; but now, as
 the first shock is over, shall I own that I long for your return? I am not
 so selfish, however, as to press for it, if inconvenient. Adieu! I take up
 mypenagain to do what I have just told you I would not; but circum
stances are such that I cannot help earnestly begging you all to come
 here as soon as possible. I know my dear uncle and aunt so well, that
 I am not afraid of requesting it, though I have still something more to
 ask of the former. My father is going to London with Colonel Forster
 instantly, to try to discover her. What he means to do I am sure I know
 not; but his excessive distress will not allow him to pursue any mea
sure in the best and safest way, and Colonel Forster is obliged to be at
 Brighton again to-morrow evening. In such an exigence, my uncle’s
 advice and assistance would be everything in the world; he will imme
diately comprehend what I must feel, and I rely upon his goodness.
Oh! where, where is my uncle?
I beg your pardon, but I must
 leave you. I must find Mr. Gardiner this moment, on business that
 190
cannot be delayed; I have not an instant to lose.
Good God! what is the matter?
I will not detain you a minute;
 but let me, or let the servant go after Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner. You are
 not well enough; you cannot go yourself.
Let me call your maid. Is there nothing you could take to give
 you present relief? A glass of wine; shall I get you one? You are very
 ill.
No, I thank you,
There is nothing the matter with me. I am quite well; I am only dis
tressed by some dreadful news which I have just received from Long
bourn.
I have just had a letter from
 Jane, with such dreadful news. It cannot be concealed from anyone.
 Myyoungersister has left all her friends—has eloped; has thrown her
self into the power of—of Mr. Wickham. They are gone off together
 from Brighton. You know him too well to doubt the rest. She has no
 money, no connections, nothing that can tempt him to—she is lost for
 ever.
When I consider,
that I might have prevented it! I, who knew
 what he was. Had I but explained some part of it only—some part of
 what I learnt, to my own family! Had his character been known, this
 could not have happened. But it is all—all too late now.
I am grieved indeed,
grieved—shocked. But is it
 certain—absolutely certain?
Oh, yes! They left Brighton together on Sunday night, and were
 traced almost to London, but not beyond; they are certainly not gone
 to Scotland.
And what has been done, what has been attempted, to recover
 191
her?
My father is gone to London, and Jane has written to beg my un
cle’s immediate assistance; and we shall be off, I hope, in half-an-hour.
 But nothing can be done—I know very well that nothing can be done.
 Howis such a manto be worked on? Howarethey even to be discov
ered? I have not the smallest hope. It is every way horrible!
When my eyes were opened to his real character—Oh! had I
 knownwhatIought, what I dared to do! But I knew not—I was afraid
 of doing too much. Wretched, wretched mistake!
I am afraid you have been long desiring
 myabsence, nor haveIanything to plead in excuse of mystay, but real,
 though unavailing concern. Would to Heaven that anything could be
 either said or done on my part that might offer consolation to such
 distress! But I will not torment you with vain wishes, which may seem
 purposely to ask for your thanks. This unfortunate affair will, I fear,
 prevent my sister’s having the pleasure of seeing you at Pemberley to
day.
Oh, yes. Be so kind as to apologise for us to Miss Darcy. Say that
 urgent business calls us homeimmediately. Concealtheunhappytruth
 as long as it is possible, I know it cannot be long.
But what is to be done
 about Pemberley?
John told us Mr. Darcy was
 here when you sent for us; was it so?
Yes; and I told him weshouldnotbeabletokeepourengagement.
 That is all settled.
What is all settled?
And are they upon such terms as for her to disclose the
 real truth? Oh, that I knew how it was!
I have been thinking it over again, Elizabeth,
and really, upon serious consideration, I
 am much more inclined than I was to judge as your eldest sister does
 on the matter. It appears to me so very unlikely that any young man
 should form such a design against a girl who is by no means unpro
tected or friendless, and who was actually staying in his colonel’s fam
ily, that I am strongly inclined to hope the best. Could he expect that
 her friends would not step forward? Could he expect to be noticed
 again by the regiment, after such an affront to Colonel Forster? His
 temptation is not adequate to the risk!
Doyoureally think so?
Uponmyword,
Ibegintobeofyouruncle’s
 opinion. It is really too great a violation of decency, honour, and inter
est, for him to be guilty of. I cannot think so very ill of Wickham. Can
 you yourself, Lizzy, so wholly give him up, as to believe him capable
 of it?
Not, perhaps, of neglecting his own interest; but of every other
 neglect I can believe him capable. If, indeed, it should be so! But I dare
 not hope it. WhyshouldtheynotgoontoScotland if that had been the
 case?
In the first place,
there is no absolute proof
 that they are not gone to Scotland.
Oh! but their removing from the chaise into a hackney coach is
 such a presumption! And, besides, no traces of them were to be found
 on the Barnet road.
Well, then—supposing them to be in London. They may be there,
 though for the purpose of concealment, for no more exceptional pur
pose. It is not likely that money should be very abundant on either
 side; and it might strike them that they could be more economically,
 though less expeditiously, married in London than in Scotland.
But why all this secrecy? Why any fear of detection? Why must
 their marriage be private? Oh, no, no—this is not likely. His most par
ticular friend, you see by Jane’s account, was persuaded of his never
 intending to marry her. Wickham will never marry a woman without
 some money. He cannot afford it. And what claims has Lydia—what
 attraction has she beyond youth, health, and good humour that could
 make him, for her sake, forego every chance of benefiting himself by
 marrying well? As to what restraint the apprehensions of disgrace in
 195
the corpsmightthrowonadishonourableelopementwithher,Iamnot
 able to judge; for I know nothing of the effects that such a step might
 produce. But as to your other objection, I am afraid it will hardly hold
 good. Lydia has no brothers to step forward; and he might imagine,
 from my father’s behaviour, from his indolence and the little attention
 he has ever seemed to give to what was going forward in his family,
 that he would do as little, and think as little about it, as any father
 could do, in such a matter.
But can you think that Lydia is so lost to everything but love of
 him as to consent to live with him on any terms other than marriage?
It does seem, and it is most shocking indeed,
that a sister’s sense of decency and virtue in
 such a point should admit of doubt. But, really, I know not what to say.
 PerhapsIamnotdoingherjustice. Butsheisveryyoung; shehasnever
 been taught to think on serious subjects; and for the last half-year, nay,
 for a twelvemonth—she has been given up to nothing but amusement
 and vanity. She has been allowed to dispose of her time in the most
 idle and frivolous manner, and to adopt any opinions that came in her
 way. Since the ——shire were first quartered in Meryton, nothing but
 love, flirtation, and officers have been in her head. She has been doing
 everything in her power by thinking and talking on the subject, to give
 greater—what shall I call it? susceptibility to her feelings; which are
 naturally lively enough. And we all know that Wickham has every
 charm of person and address that can captivate a woman.
But you see that Jane,
does not think so very ill of
 Wickham as to believe him capable of the attempt.
Of whom does Jane ever think ill? And who is there, whatever
 might betheir former conduct, that she would think capable of such an
 attempt, till it were proved against them? But Jane knows, as well as I
 do, what Wickham really is. We both know that he has been profligate
 in every sense of the word; that he has neither integrity nor honour;
 that he is as false and deceitful as he is insinuating.
And do you really know all this?
I do indeed,
I told you, the other
 day, of his infamous behaviour to Mr. Darcy; and you yourself, when
 last at Longbourn, heard in what manner he spoke of the man who
 had behaved with such forbearance and liberality towards him. And
 there are other circumstances which I am not at liberty—which it is not
 worthwhiletorelate; but his lies about the wholePemberleyfamilyare
 endless. From what he said of Miss Darcy I was thoroughly prepared
 196
to see a proud, reserved, disagreeable girl. Yet he knew to the contrary
 himself. He must know that she was as amiable and unpretending as
 wehave found her.
But does Lydia know nothing of this? can she be ignorant of what
 you and Jane seem so well to understand?
Oh, yes!—that, that is the worst of all. Till I was in Kent, and saw
 so much both of Mr. Darcy and his relation Colonel Fitzwilliam, I was
 ignorant of the truth myself. And when I returned home, the ——shire
 was to leave Meryton in a week or fortnight’s time. As that was the
 case, neither Jane, to whom I related the whole, nor I, thought it neces
sary to makeourknowledgepublic; forofwhatusecoulditapparently
 be to any one, that the good opinion which all the neighbourhood had
 of him should then be overthrown? And even when it was settled that
 Lydia should go with Mrs. Forster, the necessity of opening her eyes
 to his character never occurred to me. That she could be in any danger
 from the deception never entered my head. That such a consequence
 as this could ensue, you may easily believe, was far enough from my
 thoughts.
Whenthey all removed to Brighton, therefore, you had no reason,
 I suppose, to believe them fond of each other?
Not the slightest. I can remember no symptom of affection on ei
ther side; and had anything of the kind been perceptible, you must
 be aware that ours is not a family on which it could be thrown away.
 Whenfirst he entered the corps, she was ready enough to admire him;
 but so weall were. Every girl in or near Meryton was out of her senses
 about him for the first two months; but he never distinguished her by
 any particular attention; and, consequently, after a moderate period
 of extravagant and wild admiration, her fancy for him gave way, and
 others of the regiment, who treated her with more distinction, again
 became her favourites.
Not yet,
But now that my dear uncle is come, I
 hope everything will be well.
Is my father in town?
Yes, he went on Tuesday, as I wrote you word.
And have you heard from him often?
Wehaveheardonlytwice. HewrotemeafewlinesonWednesday
 to saythat hehadarrivedinsafety, andtogivemehisdirections, which
 I particularly begged him to do. He merely added that he should not
 write again till he had something of importance to mention.
And mymother—howisshe? Howareyouall?
My mother is tolerably well, I trust; though her spirits are greatly
 shaken. She is upstairs and will have great satisfaction in seeing you
 all. She does not yet leave her dressing-room. Mary and Kitty, thank
 Heaven, are quite well.
But you—how are you?
You look pale. How
 muchyoumusthave gone through!
If I had been able,
to carry my point in going to
 Brighton, with all my family, this would not have happened; but poor
 dear Lydia had nobody to take care of her. Why did the Forsters ever
 let her go out of their sight? I am sure there was some great neglect or
 other on their side, for she is not the kind of girl to do such a thing if
 she had been well looked after. I always thought they were very unfit
 to have the charge of her; but I was overruled, as I always am. Poor
 dear child! And now here’s Mr. Bennet gone away, and I know he will
 f
 ight Wickham, wherever he meets him and then he will be killed, and
 what is to become of us all? The Collinses will turn us out before he is
 cold in his grave, and if you are not kind to us, brother, I do not know
 what weshall do.
Donotgive waytouseless alarm,
though it is right to
 be preparedfor the worst, there is no occasion to look onit as certain. It
 is not quite a weeksince they left Brighton. In a few days morewemay
 gain some news of them; and till we know that they are not married,
 and have no design of marrying, do not let us give the matter over as
 lost. As soon as I get to town I shall go to my brother, and make him
 come home with me to Gracechurch Street; and then we may consult
 together as to what is to be done.
Oh! my dear brother,
that is exactly what
 I could most wish for. And now do, when you get to town, find them
 out, wherever they may be; and if they are not married already, make
 them marry. And as for wedding clothes, do not let them wait for that,
 but tell Lydia she shall have as much money as she chooses to buy
 them, after they are married. And, above all, keep Mr. Bennet from
 f
 ighting. Tell him what a dreadful state I am in, that I am frighted
 out of my wits—and have such tremblings, such flutterings, all over
 me—suchspasms in myside andpains in myhead, and such beatings
 at heart, that I can get no rest by night nor by day. And tell my dear
 199
Lydia not to give any directions about her clothes till she has seen me,
 for she does not know which are the best warehouses. Oh, brother,
 howkind you are! I know you will contrive it all.
This is a mostunfortunateaffair, and will probably bemuchtalked
 of. But we must stem the tide of malice, and pour into the wounded
 bosoms of each other the balm of sisterly consolation.
Unhappy as the event must be for Lydia, we may draw from it this
 useful lesson: that loss of virtue in a female is irretrievable; that one
 false step involves her in endless ruin; that her reputation is no less
 brittle than it is beautiful; and that she cannot be too much guarded in
 her behaviour towards the undeserving of the other sex.
But tell me all and everything about it
 which I have not already heard. Give me further particulars. What did
 Colonel Forster say? Had they no apprehension of anything before the
 elopement took place? They must have seen them together for ever.
Colonel Forster did own that he had often suspected some partial
ity, especially on Lydia’s side, but nothing to give him any alarm. I
 am so grieved for him! His behaviour was attentive and kind to the
 utmost. He was coming to us, in order to assure us of his concern, be
fore he had any idea of their not being gone to Scotland: when that
 apprehension first got abroad, it hastened his journey.
And was Denny convinced that Wickham would not marry? Did
 he knowof their intending to go off? Had Colonel Forster seen Denny
 himself?
Yes; but, when questioned by him, Denny denied knowing any
thing of their plans, and would not give his real opinion about it. He
 did not repeat his persuasion of their not marrying—and from that, I
 aminclined to hope, he might have been misunderstood before.
And till Colonel Forster came himself, not one of you entertained
 a doubt, I suppose, of their being really married?
How was it possible that such an idea should enter our brains? I
 felt a little uneasy—a little fearful of my sister’s happiness with him in
 marriage, because I knew that his conduct had not been always quite
 right. My father and mother knew nothing of that; they only felt how
 imprudent a match it must be. Kitty then owned, with a very natural
 triumph on knowing more than the rest of us, that in Lydia’s last letter
 she had prepared her for such a step. She had known, it seems, of their
 being in love with each other, many weeks.
But not before they went to Brighton?
No, I believe not.
AnddidColonelForsterappeartothinkwellofWickhamhimself?
 Does he knowhis real character?
I must confess that he did not speak so well of Wickham as he for
merly did. He believed him to be imprudent and extravagant. And
 since this sad affair has taken place, it is said that he left Meryton
 greatly in debt; but I hope this may be false.
Oh, Jane, had we been less secret, had we told what we knew of
 him, this could not have happened!
Perhaps it would have been better,
But to
 expose the former faults of any person without knowing what their
 present feelings were, seemed unjustifiable. We acted with the best
 201
intentions.
Could Colonel Forster repeat the particulars of Lydia’s note to his
 wife?
He brought it with him for us to see.
Mydear Harriet,
 “YouwilllaughwhenyouknowwhereIamgone,andIcannothelp
 laughing myself at your surprise to-morrow morning, as soon as I am
 missed. I amgoingtoGretnaGreen, andifyoucannotguesswithwho,
 I shall think you a simpleton, for there is but one man in the world I
 love, and heis anangel. I should never behappywithouthim, sothink
 it no harm to be off. You need not send them word at Longbourn of
 mygoing, if you do not like it, for it will make the surprise the greater,
 when I write to them and sign my name ‘Lydia Wickham.’ What a
 good joke it will be! I can hardly write for laughing. Pray make my
 excuses to Pratt for not keeping my engagement, and dancing with
 him to-night. Tell him I hope he will excuse me when he knows all;
 and tell him I will dance with him at the next ball we meet, with great
 pleasure. I shall send for my clothes when I get to Longbourn; but I
 wish you would tell Sally to mend a great slit in my worked muslin
 gown before they are packed up. Good-bye. Give my love to Colonel
 Forster. I hope you will drink to our good journey.
 “Your affectionate friend,
 “Lydia Bennet.
Oh! thoughtless, thoughtless Lydia!
What a letter is this, to be written at such a moment!
 But at least it shows that she was serious on the subject of their journey.
 Whatever he might afterwards persuade her to, it was not on her side
 a scheme of infamy. My poor father! how he must have felt it!
I never saw anyone so shocked. He could not speak a word for
 full ten minutes. My mother was taken ill immediately, and the whole
 house in such confusion!
Oh! Jane,
was there a servant belonging to it
 whodid not knowthe whole story before the end of the day?
I donotknow. Ihopetherewas. Buttobeguardedatsuchatimeis
 very difficult. My mother was in hysterics, and though I endeavoured
 to give her every assistance in my power, I am afraid I did not do so
 202
much as I might have done! But the horror of what might possibly
 happen almost took from me my faculties.
Your attendance upon her has been too much for you. You do not
 look well. Oh that I had been with you! you have had every care and
 anxiety upon yourself alone.
Mary and Kitty have been very kind, and would have shared in
 every fatigue, I am sure; but I did not think it right for either of them.
 Kitty is slight and delicate; and Mary studies so much, that her hours
 of repose should not be broken in on. My aunt Phillips came to Long
bourn on Tuesday, after my father went away; and was so good as to
 stay till Thursday with me. She was of great use and comfort to us all.
 And Lady Lucas has been very kind; she walked here on Wednesday
 morning to condole with us, and offered her services, or any of her
 daughters’, if they should be of use to us.
She had better have stayed at home,
perhaps
 she meant well, but, under such a misfortune as this, one cannot see
 too little of one’s neighbours. Assistance is impossible; condolence in
sufferable. Let them triumph over us at a distance, and be satisfied.
He meant I believe,
to go to Epsom, the place
 where they last changed horses, see the postilions and try if anything
 could be madeoutfromthem. Hisprincipal object must be to discover
 the number of the hackney coach which took them from Clapham. It
 had come with a fare from London; and as he thought that the cir
cumstance of a gentleman and lady’s removing from one carriage into
 another might be remarked he meant to make inquiries at Clapham.
 If he could anyhow discover at what house the coachman had before
 set down his fare, he determined to make inquiries there, and hoped it
 might not be impossible to find out the stand and numberofthecoach.
 I do not know of any other designs that he had formed; but he was in
 such a hurry to be gone, and his spirits so greatly discomposed, that I
 had difficulty in finding out even so much as this.
I have written to Colonel Forster to desire him to find out, if possi
ble, from some of the young man’s intimates in the regiment, whether
 Wickham has any relations or connections who would be likely to
 know in what part of town he has now concealed himself. If there
 were anyonethat onecouldapplytowithaprobability of gaining such
 a clue as that, it might be of essential consequence. At present we have
 nothing to guide us. Colonel Forster will, I dare say, do everything in
 his power to satisfy us on this head. But, on second thoughts, perhaps,
 Lizzy could tell us what relations he has now living, better than any
 other person.
Mydear sir,
 “I feel myself called upon, by our relationship, and my situation in
 life, to condole with you on the grievous affliction you are now suf
fering under, of which we were yesterday informed by a letter from
 Hertfordshire. Be assured, my dear sir, that Mrs. Collins and myself
 sincerely sympathise with you and all your respectable family, in your
 present distress, which must be of the bitterest kind, because proceed
ing from a cause which no time can remove. No arguments shall be
 wanting on my part that can alleviate so severe a misfortune—or that
 205
may comfort you, under a circumstance that must be of all others the
 most afflicting to a parent’s mind. The death of your daughter would
 have been a blessing in comparison of this. And it is the more to be
 lamented, because there is reason to suppose as my dear Charlotte in
forms me, that this licentiousness of behaviour in your daughter has
 proceeded from a faulty degree of indulgence; though, at the same
 time, for the consolation of yourself and Mrs. Bennet, I am inclined
 to think that her own disposition must be naturally bad, or she could
 not be guilty of such an enormity, at so early an age. Howsoever that
 may be, you are grievously to be pitied; in which opinion I am not
 only joined by Mrs. Collins, but likewise by Lady Catherine and her
 daughter, to whom I have related the affair. They agree with me in ap
prehending that this false step in one daughter will be injurious to the
 fortunes of all the others; for who, as Lady Catherine herself conde
scendingly says, will connect themselves with such a family? And this
 consideration leads me moreover to reflect, with augmented satisfac
tion, on a certain event of last November; for had it been otherwise, I
 must have been involved in all your sorrow and disgrace. Let me then
 advise you, dear sir, to console yourself as much as possible, to throw
 off your unworthy child from your affection for ever, and leave her to
 reap the fruits of her own heinous offense.
 “I am, dear sir, etc., etc.
Agamester!
This is wholly unexpected. I had not an idea
 of it.
What, is he coming home, and without poor Lydia?
Sure he will not leave London before he has found them. Who is to
 f
 ight Wickham, and make him marry her, if he comes away?
Say
 nothing of that. Who should suffer but myself? It has been my own
 doing, and I ought to feel it.
You must not be too severe upon yourself,
You may well warn me against such an evil. Human nature is so
 207
prone to fall into it! No, Lizzy, let me once in my life feel how much
 I have been to blame. I am not afraid of being overpowered by the
 impression. It will pass away soon enough.
Do yousuppose them to be in London?
Yes; where else can they be so well concealed?
And Lydia used to want to go to London,
She is happy then,
and her residence there
 will probably be of some duration.
Lizzy, I bear you no ill-will for being justified in your advice to
 me last May, which, considering the event, shows some greatness of
 mind.
This is a parade,
which does one good; it gives such
 an elegance to misfortune! Another day I will do the same; I will sit
 in mylibrary, in my nightcap and powdering gown, and give as much
 trouble as I can; or, perhaps, I may defer it till Kitty runs away.
I amnotgoingtorunaway, papa,
If I should
 ever go to Brighton, I would behave better than Lydia.
You go to Brighton. I would not trust you so near it as Eastbourne
 for fifty pounds! No, Kitty, I have at last learnt to be cautious, and
 you will feel the effects of it. No officer is ever to enter into my house
 again, nor even to pass through the village. Balls will be absolutely
 prohibited, unless you stand up with one of your sisters. And you are
 never to stir out of doors till you can prove that you have spent ten
 minutes of every day in a rational manner.
Well, well,
do not make yourself unhappy. If you are a
 good girl for the next ten years, I will take you to a review at the end
 of them.
I beg your pardon, madam, for interrupting you, but I was in
 208
hopes you might have got some good news from town, so I took the
 liberty of coming to ask.
What do youmean, Hill? We have heard nothing from town.
Dear madam,
don’t you
 know there is an express come for master from Mr. Gardiner? He has
 been here this half-hour, and master has had a letter.
If you are looking for my master, ma’am, he is walking towards
 the little copse.
Oh, papa, what news—what news? Have you heard from my un
cle?
Yes I have had a letter from him by express.
Well, and what news does it bring—good or bad?
What is there of good to be expected?
But perhaps you would like to read it.
Read it aloud,
for I hardly know myself what it
 is about.
Gracechurch Street, Monday,
 August 2.
 “Mydear brother,
 “At last I am able to send you some tidings of my niece, and such
 as, upon the whole, I hope it will give you satisfaction. Soon after you
 left me on Saturday, I was fortunate enough to find out in what part of
 London they were. The particulars I reserve till we meet; it is enough
 to know they are discovered. I have seen them both—
Then it is as I always hoped,
they are married!
I have seen them both. They are not married, nor can I find there
 was any intention of being so; but if you are willing to perform the
 engagements which I have ventured to make on your side, I hope it
 will not be long before they are. All that is required of you is, to assure
 to your daughter, by settlement, her equal share of the five thousand
 pounds secured among your children after the decease of yourself and
 mysister; and, moreover, to enter into an engagement of allowing her,
 during your life, one hundred pounds per annum. These are condi
tions which, considering everything, I had no hesitation in complying
 with, as far as I thought myself privileged, for you. I shall send this by
 express, that no time may be lost in bringing me your answer. You
 will easily comprehend, from these particulars, that Mr. Wickham’s
 circumstances are not so hopeless as they are generally believed to
 be. The world has been deceived in that respect; and I am happy to
 say there will be some little money, even when all his debts are dis
charged, to settle on my niece, in addition to her own fortune. If, as I
 conclude will be the case, you send me full powers to act in your name
 throughout the whole of this business, I will immediately give direc
tions to Haggerston for preparing a proper settlement. There will not
 be the smallest occasion for your coming to town again; therefore stay
 quiet at Longbourn, and depend on my diligence and care. Send back
 your answer as fast as you can, and be careful to write explicitly. We
 have judged it best that my niece should be married from this house,
 of which I hope you will approve. She comes to us to-day. I shall write
 again as soon as anything more is determined on. Yours, etc.,
 “Edw. Gardiner.
Is it possible?
Can it be
 possible that he will marry her?
Wickham is not so undeserving, then, as we thought him,
My dear father, I congratulate you.
And have you answered the letter?
No; but it must be done soon.
Oh! mydearfather,
comebackandwriteimmediately.
 Consider how important every moment is in such a case.
Let me write for you,
if you dislike the trouble your
self.
I dislike it very much,
but it must be done.
And mayI ask—
but the terms, I suppose, must
 be complied with.
Complied with! I am only ashamed of his asking so little.
And they must marry! Yet he is such a man!
Yes, yes, they must marry. There is nothing else to be done. But
 there are two things that I want very much to know; one is, how much
 money your uncle has laid down to bring it about; and the other, how
 amIever to pay him.
Money! Myuncle!
what do you mean, sir?
I mean, that no man in his senses would marry Lydia on so slight
 a temptation as one hundred a year during my life, and fifty after I am
 gone.
That is very true,
though it had not occurred to
 me before. His debts to be discharged, and something still to remain!
 Oh! it must be myuncle’s doings! Generous, good man, I am afraid he
 has distressed himself. A small sum could not do all this.
No,
Wickham’s a fool if he takes her with a far
thing less than ten thousand pounds. I should be sorry to think so ill
 of him, in the very beginning of our relationship.
Ten thousand pounds! Heaven forbid! How is half such a sum to
 be repaid?
Andtheyarereallytobemarried!
How strange this is! And for this we are to be
 thankful. That they shouldmarry, small asistheir chance ofhappiness,
 and wretched as is his character, we are forced to rejoice. Oh, Lydia!
I comfort myself with thinking,
that he certainly
 would not marry Lydia if he had not a real regard for her. Though our
 kind uncle has done something towards clearing him, I cannot believe
 that ten thousand pounds, or anything like it, has been advanced. He
 has children of his own, and may have more. How could he spare half
 ten thousand pounds?
If he were ever able to learn what Wickham’s debts have been,
and how much is settled on his side on our sister,
 we shall exactly know what Mr. Gardiner has done for them, because
 Wickham has not sixpence of his own. The kindness of my uncle and
 aunt can never be requited. Their taking her home, and affording her
 211
their personal protection and countenance, is such a sacrifice to her
 advantage as years of gratitude cannot enough acknowledge. By this
 time she is actually with them! If such goodness does not make her
 miserable now, she will never deserve to be happy! What a meeting
 for her, when she first sees my aunt!
We must endeavour to forget all that has passed on either side,
I hope and trust they will yet be happy. His consenting to
 marry her is a proof, I will believe, that he is come to a right way of
 thinking. Their mutual affection will steady them; and I flatter myself
 they will settle so quietly, and live in so rational a manner, as may in
 time make their past imprudence forgotten.
Their conduct has been such,
as neither you,
 nor I, nor anybody can ever forget. It is useless to talk of it.
Just as you please.
Maywetake myuncle’s letter to read to her?
Take whatever you like, and get away.
My dear, dear Lydia!
This is delightful indeed! She
 will be married! I shall see her again! She will be married at sixteen!
 My good, kind brother! I knew how it would be. I knew he would
 manage everything! How I long to see her! and to see dear Wickham
 too! But the clothes, the wedding clothes! I will write to my sister
 Gardiner about them directly. Lizzy, my dear, run down to your father,
 and ask him how much he will give her. Stay, stay, I will go myself.
 Ring the bell, Kitty, for Hill. I will put on my things in a moment. My
 dear, dear Lydia! How merry we shall be together when we meet!
For we must attribute this happy conclusion,
in a
 great measure to his kindness. We are persuaded that he has pledged
 himself to assist Mr. Wickham with money.
Well,
it is all very right; who should do it but
 her ownuncle? Ifhehadnothadafamilyofhisown,Iandmychildren
 musthavehadallhis money, youknow; anditisthefirsttimewehave
 ever had anything from him, except a few presents. Well! I am so
 happy! In ashort time I shall have a daughter married. Mrs. Wickham!
 How well it sounds! And she was only sixteen last June. My dear
 Jane, I am in such a flutter, that I am sure I can’t write; so I will dictate,
 and you write for me. We will settle with your father about the money
 afterwards; but the things should be ordered immediately.
I will go to Meryton,
as soon as I am dressed, and tell
 the good, goodnewstomysisterPhilips. AndasIcomeback,Icancall
 on LadyLucas andMrs. Long. Kitty, run down and order the carriage.
 An airing would do me a great deal of good, I am sure. Girls, can I
 do anything for you in Meryton? Oh! Here comes Hill! My dear Hill,
 have youheardthegoodnews? MissLydiaisgoingtobemarried; and
 you shall all have a bowl of punch to make merry at her wedding.
HayeParkmightdo,
if the Gouldings could quit it—or
 the great house at Stoke, if the drawing-room were larger; but Ash
worth is too far off! I could not bear to have her ten miles from me; and
 as for Pulvis Lodge, the attics are dreadful.
Mrs. Bennet, before you take any or all of these houses for your son
 and daughter, let us come to a right understanding. Into one house in
 this neighbourhood they shall never have admittance. I will not en
courage the impudence of either, by receiving them at Longbourn.
It was greatly my wish that he should do so,
as soon
 as his marriage was fixed on. And I think you will agree with me, in
 considering the removal from that corps as highly advisable, both on
 his account and myniece’s. It is Mr. Wickham’s intention to go into the
 regulars; and among his former friends, there are still some who are
 able and willing to assist him in the army. He has the promise of an en
signcy in General ——’s regiment, now quartered in the North. It is an
 advantage to have it so far from this part of the kingdom. He promises
 fairly; and I hope among different people, where they may each have a
 character to preserve, they will both be more prudent. I have written to
 Colonel Forster, to inform him of our present arrangements, and to re
quest that he will satisfy the various creditors of Mr. Wickham in and
 near Brighton, with assurances of speedy payment, for which I have
 pledged myself. And will you give yourself the trouble of carrying
 similar assurances to his creditors in Meryton, of whom I shall subjoin
 a list according to his information? He has given in all his debts; I hope
 at least he has not deceived us. Haggerston has our directions, and all
 will be completed in a week. They will then join his regiment, unless
 they are first invited to Longbourn; and I understand from Mrs. Gar
217
diner, that my niece is very desirous of seeing you all before she leaves
 the South. She is well, and begs to be dutifully remembered to you and
 your mother.—Yours, etc.,
 “E. Gardiner.
She is so fond of Mrs. Forster,
it will be quite shocking
 to sendheraway! Andthereareseveraloftheyoungmen,too,thatshe
 likes very much. The officers may not be so pleasant in General——’s
 regiment.
Only think of its being three months,
since I went
 219
away; it seems but a fortnight I declare; and yet there have been things
 enough happened in the time. Good gracious! when I went away, I am
 sure I hadnomoreideaofbeingmarriedtill I camebackagain! though
 I thought it would be very good fun if I was.
Oh! mamma, do
 the people hereabouts know I am married to-day? I was afraid they
 might not; and we overtook William Goulding in his curricle, so I was
 determined he should know it, and so I let down the side-glass next to
 him, andtookoffmyglove,andletmyhandjustrestuponthewindow
 frame, so that he might see the ring, and then I bowed and smiled like
 anything.
Ah! Jane, I take your place now, and
 you must go lower, because I am a married woman.
Mrs. Wick
ham
Well, mamma,
and what do you think of my husband? Is not he a charm
ing man? I amsure mysisters must all envy me. I only hope they may
 have half mygoodluck. TheymustallgotoBrighton. Thatis the place
 to get husbands. What a pity it is, mamma, we did not all go.
Very true; and if I had my will, we should. But my dear Lydia, I
 don’t at all like your going such a way off. Must it be so?
Oh, lord! yes;—there is nothing in that. I shall like it of all things.
 You and papa, and my sisters, must come down and see us. We shall
 be at Newcastle all the winter, and I dare say there will be some balls,
 and I will take care to get good partners for them all.
I should like it beyond anything!
And then when you go away, you may leave one or two of my
 sisters behind you; and I dare say I shall get husbands for them before
 the winter is over.
I thank you for my share of the favour,
but I do
 not particularly like your way of getting husbands.
Lizzy, I never gave you an account of my wedding, I believe. You
 were not by, when I told mamma and the others all about it. Are not
 you curious to hear how it was managed?
Noreally,
I think there cannot be too little said
 on the subject.
La! You are so strange! But I must tell you how it went off. We
 weremarried,youknow,atSt.Clement’s,becauseWickham’slodgings
 were in that parish. And it was settled that we should all be there by
 eleven o’clock. My uncle and aunt and I were to go together; and the
 others weretomeetusatthechurch. Well,Mondaymorningcame,and
 I was in such a fuss! I was so afraid, you know, that something would
 happento putit off, and then I should have gone quite distracted. And
 there was my aunt, all the time I was dressing, preaching and talking
 away just as if she was reading a sermon. However, I did not hear
 above one word in ten, for I was thinking, you may suppose, of my
 dear Wickham. I longed to know whether he would be married in his
 221
blue coat.
Well, and so we breakfasted at ten as usual; I thought it would
 never be over; for, by the bye, you are to understand, that my uncle
 and aunt were horrid unpleasant all the time I was with them. If you’ll
 believe me, I did not once put my foot out of doors, though I was there
 a fortnight. Not one party, or scheme, or anything. To be sure London
 wasratherthin, but, however, the Little Theatre was open. Well, andso
 just as the carriage came to the door, my uncle was called away upon
 business to that horrid man Mr. Stone. And then, you know, when
 once they get together, there is no end of it. Well, I was so frightened
 I did not know what to do, for my uncle was to give me away; and
 if we were beyond the hour, we could not be married all day. But,
 luckily, he came back again in ten minutes’ time, and then we all set
 out. However, I recollected afterwards that if he had been prevented
 going, the wedding neednotbeputoff, for Mr. Darcy mighthavedone
 as well.
Mr. Darcy!
Oh, yes!—he was to come there with Wickham, you know. But
 gracious me! I quite forgot! I ought not to have said a word about it.
 I promised them so faithfully! What will Wickham say? It was to be
 such a secret!
If it was to be secret,
say not another word on the
 subject. You may depend upon my seeking no further.
Oh! certainly,
we
 will ask you no questions.
Thank you,
for if you did, I should certainly tell you
 all, and then Wickham would be angry.
You may readily comprehend,
what my curiosity
 must be to know how a person unconnected with any of us, and
 222
(comparatively speaking) a stranger to our family, should have been
 amongst you at such a time. Pray write instantly, and let me under
stand it—unless it is, for very cogent reasons, to remain in the secrecy
 which Lydia seems to think necessary; and then I must endeavour to
 be satisfied with ignorance.
Not that I shall, though,
and my dear aunt, if you do not tell me in an honourable man
ner, I shall certainly be reduced to tricks and stratagems to find it out.
Gracechurch street, Sept. 6.
 “Mydear niece,
 “I have just received your letter, and shall devote this whole morn
ing to answering it, as I foresee that a little writing will not comprise
 what I have to tell you. I must confess myself surprised by your ap
plication; I did not expect it from you. Don’t think me angry, however,
 for I only mean to let you know that I had not imagined such inquiries
 to be necessary on your side. If you do not choose to understand me,
 forgive my impertinence. Your uncle is as much surprised as I am—
 andnothing but the belief of your being a party concerned would have
 allowed him to act as he has done. But if you are really innocent and
 ignorant, I must be more explicit.
 “On the very day of my coming home from Longbourn, your un
cle had a most unexpected visitor. Mr. Darcy called, and was shut up
 with himseveral hours. It was all over before I arrived; so my curiosity
 was not so dreadfully racked as your’s seems to have been. He came
 to tell Mr. Gardiner that he had found out where your sister and Mr.
 223
Wickhamwere,andthathehadseenandtalkedwiththemboth; Wick
hamrepeatedly, Lydia once. From whatIcancollect, he left Derbyshire
 only one day after ourselves, and came to town with the resolution of
 hunting for them. The motive professed was his conviction of its being
 owing to himself that Wickham’s worthlessness had not been so well
 known as to make it impossible for any young woman of character to
 love or confide in him. He generously imputed the whole to his mis
taken pride, and confessed that he had before thought it beneath him
 to lay his private actions open to the world. His character was to speak
 for itself. He called it, therefore, his duty to step forward, and endeav
our to remedy an evil which had been brought on by himself. If he had
 another motive, I am sure it would never disgrace him. He had been
 some days in town, before he was able to discover them; but he had
 something to direct his search, which was more than we had; and the
 consciousness of this was another reason for his resolving to follow us.
 “There is a lady, it seems, a Mrs. Younge, who was some time ago
 governess to Miss Darcy, and was dismissed from her charge on some
 cause of disapprobation, though he did not say what. She then took a
 large house in Edward-street, and has since maintained herself by let
ting lodgings. This Mrs. Younge was, he knew, intimately acquainted
 with Wickham; and he went to her for intelligence of him as soon as
 he got to town. But it was two or three days before he could get from
 her what he wanted. She would not betray her trust, I suppose, with
out bribery and corruption, for she really did know where her friend
 was to be found. Wickham indeed had gone to her on their first ar
rival in London, and had she been able to receive them into her house,
 they would have taken up their abode with her. At length, however,
 our kind friend procured the wished-for direction. They were in ——
 street. He saw Wickham, and afterwards insisted on seeing Lydia. His
 f
 irst object with her, he acknowledged, had been to persuade her to
 quit her present disgraceful situation, and return to her friends as soon
 as they could be prevailed on to receive her, offering his assistance,
 as far as it would go. But he found Lydia absolutely resolved on re
maining where she was. She cared for none of her friends; she wanted
 no help of his; she would not hear of leaving Wickham. She was sure
 they should be married some time or other, and it did not much sig
nify when. Since such were her feelings, it only remained, he thought,
 to secure and expedite a marriage, which, in his very first conversation
 with Wickham, he easily learnt had never been his design. He con
fessed himself obliged to leave the regiment, on account of some debts
 of honour, which were very pressing; and scrupled not to lay all the
 224
ill-consequences of Lydia’s flight on her own folly alone. He meant to
 resign his commission immediately; and as to his future situation, he
 could conjecture very little about it. He must go somewhere, but he
 did not know where, and he knew he should have nothing to live on.
 “Mr. Darcy asked him why he had not married your sister at once.
 Though Mr. Bennet was not imagined to be very rich, he would have
 been able to do something for him, and his situation must have been
 benefited by marriage. But he found, in reply to this question, that
 Wickham still cherished the hope of more effectually making his for
tune by marriage in some other country. Under such circumstances,
 however, he was not likely to be proof against the temptation of imme
diate relief.
 “Theymetseveral times, for there was much to bediscussed. Wick
ham of course wanted more than he could get; but at length was re
duced to be reasonable.
 “Every thing being settled between them, Mr. Darcy’s next step
 was to make your uncle acquainted with it, and he first called in
 Gracechurch street the evening before I came home. But Mr. Gardiner
 could not be seen, and Mr. Darcy found, on further inquiry, that your
 father was still with him, but would quit town the next morning. He
 did not judge your father to be a person whom he could so properly
 consult as your uncle, and therefore readily postponed seeing him till
 after the departure of the former. Hedidnotleavehisname, andtillthe
 next day it was only known that a gentleman had called on business.
 “On Saturday he came again. Your father was gone, your uncle at
 home, and, as I said before, they had a great deal of talk together.
 “They met again on Sunday, and then I saw him too. It was not
 all settled before Monday: as soon as it was, the express was sent off
 to Longbourn. But our visitor was very obstinate. I fancy, Lizzy, that
 obstinacy is the real defect of his character, after all. He has been ac
cused of manyfaultsatdifferent times, but this is the true one. Nothing
 was to be done that he did not do himself; though I am sure (and I do
 not speak it to be thanked, therefore say nothing about it), your uncle
 would most readily have settled the whole.
 “They battled it together for a long time, which was more than ei
ther the gentleman or lady concerned in it deserved. But at last your
 uncle was forced to yield, and instead of being allowed to be of use to
 his niece, was forced to put up with only having the probable credit of
 it, which went sorely against the grain; and I really believe your letter
 this morning gave him great pleasure, because it required an explana
tion that would rob him of his borrowed feathers, and give the praise
 225
where it was due. But, Lizzy, this must go no farther than yourself, or
 Jane at most.
 “You know pretty well, I suppose, what has been done for the
 young people. His debts are to be paid, amounting, I believe, to con
siderably more than a thousand pounds, another thousand in addition
 to her own settled upon her, and his commission purchased. The rea
son whyall this was to be done by himalone, was such as I have given
 above. It was owing to him, to his reserve and want of proper con
sideration, that Wickham’s character had been so misunderstood, and
 consequently that he had been received and noticed as he was. Per
haps there was some truth in this; though I doubt whether his reserve,
 or anybody’s reserve, can be answerable for the event. But in spite of
 all this fine talking, my dear Lizzy, you may rest perfectly assured that
 your uncle would never have yielded, if we had not given him credit
 for another interest in the affair.
 “When all this was resolved on, he returned again to his friends,
 who were still staying at Pemberley; but it was agreed that he should
 be in London once more when the wedding took place, and all money
 matters were then to receive the last finish.
 “I believe I havenowtoldyoueverything. Itisarelationwhichyou
 tell me is to give you great surprise; I hope at least it will not afford
 you any displeasure. Lydia came to us; and Wickham had constant
 admissiontothehouse. Hewasexactlywhathehadbeen,whenIknew
 him in Hertfordshire; but I would not tell you how little I was satisfied
 with her behaviour while she staid with us, if I had not perceived, by
 Jane’s letter last Wednesday, that her conduct on coming home was
 exactly of apiecewithit, andthereforewhatInowtellyoucangiveyou
 no fresh pain. I talked to her repeatedly in the most serious manner,
 representing to her all the wickedness of what she had done, and all
 the unhappiness she had brought on herfamily. If she heard me, it was
 by good luck, for I am sure she did not listen. I was sometimes quite
 provoked, but then I recollected my dear Elizabeth and Jane, and for
 their sakes had patience with her.
 “Mr. Darcy was punctual in his return, and as Lydia informed you,
 attended the wedding. Hedinedwithusthenextday,andwastoleave
 town again on Wednesday or Thursday. Will you be very angry with
 me, my dear Lizzy, if I take this opportunity of saying (what I was
 never bold enough to say before) how much I like him. His behaviour
 to us has, in every respect, been as pleasing as when we were in Der
byshire. His understanding and opinions all please me; he wants noth
ing but a little more liveliness, and that, if he marry prudently, his wife
 226
may teach him. I thought him very sly;—he hardly ever mentioned
 your name. But slyness seems the fashion.
 “Pray forgive me if I have been very presuming, or at least do not
 punish me so far as to exclude me from P. I shall never be quite happy
 till I have been all round the park. A low phaeton, with a nice little pair
 of ponies, would be the very thing.
 “But I mustwrite nomore. Thechildrenhavebeenwantingmethis
 half hour.
 “Yours, very sincerely,
 “M. Gardiner.
I am afraid I interrupt your solitary ramble, my dear sister?
You certainly do,
but it does not follow
 that the interruption must be unwelcome.
I should be sorry indeed, if it were. We were always good friends;
 and nowwearebetter.
True. Are the others coming out?
I do not know. Mrs. Bennet and Lydia are going in the carriage to
 Meryton. And so, my dear sister, I find, from our uncle and aunt, that
 you have actually seen Pemberley.
I almost envy you the pleasure, and yet I believe it would be too
 much for me, or else I could take it in my way to Newcastle. And you
 saw the old housekeeper, I suppose? Poor Reynolds, she was always
 very fond of me. But of course she did not mention my name to you.
Yes, she did.
And what did she say?
That you were gone into the army, and she was afraid had —
 not turned out well. At such a distance as that, you know, things are
 strangely misrepresented.
Certainly,
I was surprised to see Darcy in town last month. We passed each
 other several times. I wonder what he can be doing there.
Perhaps preparing for his marriage with Miss de Bourgh,
It must be something particular, to take him there at this
 time of year.
Undoubtedly. Did you see him while you were at Lambton? I
 228
thought I understood from the Gardiners that you had.
Yes; he introduced us to his sister.
And doyoulike her?
Very much.
I have heard, indeed, that she is uncommonly improved within
 this year or two. When I last saw her, she was not very promising. I
 amvery glad you liked her. I hope she will turn out well.
I dare say she will; she has got over the most trying age.
Did you go by the village of Kympton?
I do not recollect that we did.
I mention it, because it is the living which I ought to have had.
 Amost delightful place!—Excellent Parsonage House! It would have
 suited me in every respect.
Howshould you have liked making sermons?
Exceedingly well. I should have considered it as part of my duty,
 and the exertion would soon have been nothing. One ought not to
 repine;—but, to be sure, it would have been such a thing for me! The
 quiet, the retirement of such a life would have answered all my ideas
 of happiness! But it was not to be. Did you ever hear Darcy mention
 the circumstance, when you were in Kent?
I have heard from authority, which I thought as good, that it was
 left you conditionally only, and at the will of the present patron.
You have. Yes, there was something in that; I told you so from the
 f
 irst, you may remember.
I did hear, too, that there was a time, when sermon-making was
 not so palatable to you as it seems to be at present; that you actually
 declared your resolution of never taking orders, and that the business
 had been compromised accordingly.
You did! and it was not wholly without foundation. You may
 remember what I told you on that point, when first we talked of it.
Come, Mr. Wickham, we are brother and sister, you know. Do not
 let us quarrel about the past. In future, I hope we shall be always of
 one mind.
Oh! mydear Lydia,
when shall we meet again?
Oh, lord! I don’t know. Not these two or three years, perhaps.
Write to me very often, my dear.
Asoften as I can. But youknowmarriedwomenhavenevermuch
 time for writing. My sisters may write to me. They will have nothing
 else to do.
Heis as fineafellow,
as ever I saw. He simpers, and smirks, and makes love to
 us all. I am prodigiously proud of him. I defy even Sir William Lucas
 himself to produce a more valuable son-in-law.
I often think,
that there is nothing so bad as parting
 with one’s friends. One seems so forlorn without them.
This is the consequence, you see, Madam, of marrying a daugh
ter,
It must make you better satisfied that your other
 four are single.
It is no suchthing. Lydiadoesnotleavemebecausesheismarried,
 but only because her husband’s regiment happens to be so far off. If
 that had been nearer, she would not have gone so soon.
Well, well, and so Mr. Bingley is coming down, sister,
Well, so much the better. Not that
 230
I care about it, though. He is nothing to us, you know, and I am sure
 I never want to see him again. But, however, he is very welcome to
 come to Netherfield, if he likes it. And who knows what may happen?
 But that is nothing to us. You know, sister, we agreed long ago never
 to mention a word about it. And so, is it quite certain he is coming?
You may depend on it,
for Mrs. Nicholls was
 in Meryton last night; I saw her passing by, and went out myself on
 purposetoknowthetruthofit; andshetoldmethatitwascertaintrue.
 He comes down on Thursday at the latest, very likely on Wednesday.
 She was going to the butcher’s, she told me, on purpose to order in
 some meat on Wednesday, and she has got three couple of ducks just
 f
 it to be killed.
I saw you look at me to-day, Lizzy, when my aunt told us of the
 present report; and I know I appeared distressed. But don’t imagine it
 wasfromanysilly cause. I was only confused for the moment, because
 I felt that I should be looked at. I do assure you that the news does not
 affect me either with pleasure or pain. I am glad of one thing, that he
 comes alone; because we shall see the less of him. Not that I am afraid
 of myself, but I dread other people’s remarks.
Yet it is hard,
that this poor man cannot
 come to a house which he has legally hired, without raising all this
 speculation! I will leave him to himself.
As soon as ever Mr. Bingley comes, my dear,
you will wait on him of course.
No, no. You forced me into visiting him last year, and promised, if
 I went to see him, he should marry one of my daughters. But it ended
 231
in nothing, and I will not be sent on a fool’s errand again.
’Tis an etiquette I despise,
If he wants our society, let
 him seek it. He knows where we live. I will not spend my hours in
 running after my neighbours every time they go away and come back
 again.
Well, all I know is, that it will be abominably rude if you do not
 wait on him. But, however, that shan’t prevent my asking him to dine
 here, I am determined. We must have Mrs. Long and the Gouldings
 soon. That will makethirteen with ourselves, so there will be just room
 at table for him.
I begin to be sorry that he comes at all,
It
 would be nothing; I could see him with perfect indifference, but I can
 hardly bear to hear it thus perpetually talked of. My mother means
 well; but she does not know, no one can know, how muchIsuffer from
 what she says. Happy shall I be, when his stay at Netherfield is over!
I wish I could say anything to comfort you,
but it is wholly out of my power. You must feel it; and the usual
 satisfaction of preaching patience to a sufferer is denied me, because
 you have always so much.
There is a gentleman with him, mamma,
who can it
 be?
Someacquaintance or other, my dear, I suppose; I am sure I do not
 know.
La!
it looks just like that man that used to be with
 him before. Mr. what’s-his-name. That tall, proud man.
Goodgracious! Mr.Darcy!—andsoitdoes, Ivow. Well, anyfriend
 of Mr.Bingley’s will alwaysbewelcomehere,tobesure; butelseImust
 say that I hate the very sight of him.
Let me first see how he behaves,
it will then be early
 enough for expectation.
Could I expect it to be otherwise!
Yet why did he
 come?
It is a long time, Mr. Bingley, since you went away,
I began to be afraid you would never come back again. People
 did say you meant to quit the place entirely at Michaelmas; but, how
ever, I hope it is not true. A great many changes have happened in
 the neighbourhood, since you went away. Miss Lucas is married and
 settled. And one of my own daughters. I suppose you have heard of
 it; indeed, you must have seen it in the papers. It was in The Times
 and The Courier, I know; though it was not put in as it ought to be. It
 was only said, ‘Lately, George Wickham, Esq. to Miss Lydia Bennet,’
 without there being a syllable said of her father, or the place where she
 234
lived, or anything. It was my brother Gardiner’s drawing up too, and
 I wonder how he came to make such an awkward business of it. Did
 you see it?
It is a delightful thing, to be sure, to have a daughter well mar
ried,
but at the same time, Mr. Bingley, it is
 very hard to have her taken such a way from me. They are gone down
 to Newcastle, a place quite northward, it seems, and there they are to
 stay I do not know how long. His regiment is there; for I suppose you
 have heard of his leaving the ——shire, and of his being gone into the
 regulars. Thank Heaven! he has some friends, though perhaps not so
 manyas hedeserves.
When you have killed all your own birds, Mr. Bingley,
I beg you will come here, and shoot as many as youplease on
 Mr. Bennet’s manor. I am sure he will be vastly happy to oblige you,
 and will save all the best of the covies for you.
The first wish of my heart,
is never more to
 beincompanywitheitherofthem. Theirsocietycanaffordnopleasure
 that will atone for such wretchedness as this! Let me never see either
 one or the other again!
You are quite a visit in my debt, Mr. Bingley,
for
 when you went to town last winter, you promised to take a family
 dinner with us, as soon as you returned. I have not forgot, you see;
 and I assure you, I was very muchdisappointed that you did not come
 back and keep your engagement.
Why, if he came only to be silent, grave, and indifferent,
did he come at all?
He could be still amiable, still pleasing, to my uncle and aunt,
 when he was in town; and why not to me? If he fears me, why come
 hither? If he no longer cares for me, why silent? Teasing, teasing, man!
 I will think no more about him.
Now,
that this first meeting is over, I feel perfectly easy.
 I knowmyownstrength,andIshallneverbeembarrassedagainbyhis
 coming. I am glad he dines here on Tuesday. It will then be publicly
 seen that, on both sides, we meet only as common and indifferent ac
quaintance.
Yes, very indifferent indeed,
Oh,
 Jane, take care.
My dear Lizzy, you cannot think me so weak, as to be in danger
 now?
I think you are in very great danger of making him as much in
 love with you as ever.
If he does not come to me, then,
I shall give him up for
 ever.
Themenshan’tcomeandpartus,Iamdetermined. Wewantnone
 of them; do we?
A man who has once been refused! How could I ever be foolish
 enough to expect a renewal of his love? Is there one among the sex,
 whowouldnotprotestagainstsuchaweaknessasasecondproposalto
 the same woman? Thereisnoindignity so abhorrent to their feelings!
Is your sister at Pemberley still?
Yes, she will remain there till Christmas.
And quite alone? Have all her friends left her?
Mrs. Annesley is with her. The others have been gone on to Scar
borough, these three weeks.
Wellgirls,
What
 say you to the day? I think every thing has passed off uncommonly
 well, I assure you. The dinner was as well dressed as any I ever saw.
 The venison was roasted to a turn—and everybody said they never
 saw so fat a haunch. The soup was fifty times better than what we had
 at the Lucases’ last week; and even Mr. Darcy acknowledged, that the
 partridges were remarkably well done; and I suppose he has two or
 three French cooks at least. And, my dear Jane, I never saw you look in
 greater beauty. Mrs. Long said so too, for I asked her whether you did
 not. And what do you think she said besides? ‘Ah! Mrs. Bennet, we
 shall have her at Netherfield at last.’ She did indeed. I do think Mrs.
 Longisasgoodacreatureaseverlived—andherniecesareverypretty
 behaved girls, and not at all handsome: I like them prodigiously.
It has been a very agreeable day,
The party seemed so well selected, so suitable one with the other. I
 hope wemayoften meet again.
Lizzy, you must not do so. You must not suspect me. It mortifies
 me. I assure you that I have now learnt to enjoy his conversation as an
 agreeable and sensible young man, without having a wish beyond it. I
 am perfectly satisfied, from what his manners now are, that he never
 had any design of engaging my affection. It is only that he is blessed
 with greater sweetness of address, and a stronger desire of generally
 pleasing, than any other man.
You are very cruel,
you will not let me smile, and
 239
are provoking me to it every moment.
Howhardit is in some cases to be believed!
And howimpossible in others!
But why should you wish to persuade me that I feel more than I
 acknowledge?
That is a question which I hardly know how to answer. We all
 love to instruct, though we can teach only what is not worth knowing.
 Forgive me; and if you persist in indifference, do not make me your
 confidante.
Next time you call,
I hope we shall be more lucky.
Can you come to-morrow?
MydearJane,makehasteandhurrydown. Heiscome—Mr.Bing
ley is come. He is, indeed. Make haste, make haste. Here, Sarah, come
 to Miss Bennet this moment, and help her on with her gown. Never
 mind Miss Lizzy’s hair.
We will be down as soon as we can,
but I dare say
 Kitty is forwarder than either of us, for she went up stairs half an hour
 ago.
Oh! hang Kitty! what has she to do with it? Come be quick, be
 quick! Where is your sash, my dear?
What is the matter mamma? What do you
 keep winking at me for? What am I to do?
Nothing child, nothing. I did not wink at you.
Come here, my love, I want to
 speak to you,
Lizzy, my dear, I want to speak with you.
We may as well leave them by themselves you know;
Kitty and I are going upstairs
 to sit in my dressing-room.
’Tis too much!
by far too much. I do not deserve it.
 Oh! whyis not everybody as happy?
I must go instantly to my mother;
I would not on any
 account trifle with her affectionate solicitude; or allow her to hear it
 from anyone but myself. He is gone to my father already. Oh! Lizzy, to
 know that what I have to relate will give such pleasure to all my dear
 family! how shall I bear so much happiness!
And this,
is the end of all his friend’s anxious circum
spection! of all his sister’s falsehood and contrivance! the happiest,
 wisest, most reasonable end!
Where is your sister?
With my mother up stairs. She will be down in a moment, I dare
 say.
Jane, I congratulate you. You will be a very happy woman.
You are a good girl;
and I have great pleasure in
 thinking you will be so happily settled. I have not a doubt of your
 doing very well together. Your tempers are by no means unlike. You
 are each of you so complying, that nothing will ever be resolved on; so
 easy, that every servant will cheat you; and so generous, that you will
 always exceed your income.
I hope not so. Imprudence or thoughtlessness in money matters
 would be unpardonable in me.
Exceed their income! My dear Mr. Bennet,
what
 are you talking of? Why, he has four or five thousand a year, and very
 likely more.
Oh! my dear, dear Jane,
 I am so happy! I am sure I shan’t get a wink of sleep all night. I knew
 243
how it would be. I always said it must be so, at last. I was sure you
 could not besobeautiful for nothing! I remember, as soon as ever I saw
 him, when he first came into Hertfordshire last year, I thought how
 likely it was that you should come together. Oh! he is the handsomest
 young manthat ever was seen!
He has made meso happy,
by telling me
 that he was totally ignorant of my being in town last spring! I had not
 believed it possible.
I suspected as much,
But how did he account
 for it?
It must have been his sister’s doing. They were certainly no
 friends to his acquaintance with me, which I cannot wonder at, since
 hemighthavechosensomuchmoreadvantageouslyinmanyrespects.
 But when they see, as I trust they will, that their brother is happy with
 me, they will learn to be contented, and we shall be on good terms
 again; though we can never be what we once were to each other.
That is the most unforgiving speech,
that I ever
 heard you utter. Good girl! It would vex me, indeed, to see you again
 the dupe of Miss Bingley’s pretended regard.
Would you believe it, Lizzy, that when he went to town last No
vember, he really loved me, and nothing but a persuasion of my being
 indifferent would have prevented his coming down again!
He made a little mistake to be sure; but it is to the credit of his
 244
modesty.
I amcertainly the most fortunate creature that ever existed!
Oh! Lizzy, why am I thus singled from my family, and blessed
 above them all! If I could but see you as happy! If there were but such
 another man for you!
If you were to give me forty such men, I never could be so happy
 as you. Till I have your disposition, your goodness, I never can have
 your happiness. No, no, let me shift for myself; and, perhaps, if I have
 very good luck, I may meet with another Mr. Collins in time.
I hope you are well, Miss Bennet. That lady, I suppose, is your
 mother.
And that I suppose is one of your sisters.
Yes, madam,
She is my youngest girl but one. My youngest of all is
 lately married, and my eldest is somewhere about the grounds, walk
ing with a young man who, I believe, will soon become a part of the
 family.
You have averysmall park here,
It is nothing in comparison of Rosings, my lady, I dare say; but I
 assure you it is much larger than Sir William Lucas’s.
This must be a most inconvenient sitting room for the evening, in
 summer; the windows are full west.
May I take the liberty of asking your ladyship whether you left
 Mr. and Mrs. Collins well.
Yes, very well. I saw them the night before last.
Miss Bennet, there seemed to be a prettyish kind of a little wilder
ness on one side of your lawn. I should be glad to take a turn in it, if
 you will favour me with your company.
Go, mydear,
and show her ladyship about the
 different walks. I think she will be pleased with the hermitage.
How could I ever think her like her nephew?
You can be at no loss, Miss Bennet, to understand the reason of
 my journey hither. Your own heart, your own conscience, must tell
 you whyIcome.
Indeed, you are mistaken, Madam. I have not been at all able to
 account for the honour of seeing you here.
Miss Bennet,
you ought
 to know, that I am not to be trifled with. But however insincere you
 may choose to be, you shall not find me so. My character has ever
 been celebrated for its sincerity and frankness, and in a cause of such
 moment as this, I shall certainly not depart from it. A report of a most
 alarming nature reached me two days ago. I was told that not only
 your sister was on the point of being most advantageously married,
 but that you, that Miss Elizabeth Bennet, would, in all likelihood, be
 soon afterwards united to my nephew, my own nephew, Mr. Darcy.
 Though I know it must be a scandalous falsehood, though I would not
 injure him so much as to suppose the truth of it possible, I instantly
 resolved on setting off for this place, that I might make my sentiments
 known to you.
If you believed it impossible to be true,
I wonder you took the trouble of
 coming so far. What could your ladyship propose by it?
At once to insist upon having such a report universally contra
dicted.
Your coming to Longbourn, to see me and my family,
will be rather a confirmation of it; if, indeed, such a report
 is in existence.
If! Do youthenpretend to beignorant of it? Has it not been indus
triously circulated by yourselves? Do you not know that such a report
 is spread abroad?
I never heard that it was.
And can you likewise declare, that there is no foundation for it?
I do not pretend to possess equal frankness with your ladyship.
 You mayaskquestions which I shall not choose to answer.
This is not to beborne. MissBennet, Iinsist on being satisfied. Has
 he, has my nephew, made you an offer of marriage?
Your ladyship has declared it to be impossible.
It ought to be so; it must be so, while he retains the use of his
 reason. But your arts and allurements may, in a momentofinfatuation,
 have made him forget what he owes to himself and to all his family.
 You mayhavedrawnhimin.
If I have, I shall be the last person to confess it.
Miss Bennet, do you knowwhoIam? Ihavenotbeenaccustomed
 to such language as this. I am almost the nearest relation he has in the
 world, and am entitled to know all his dearest concerns.
But you are not entitled to know mine; nor will such behaviour as
 this, ever induce me to be explicit.
Let me be rightly understood. This match, to which you have the
 presumption to aspire, can never take place. No, never. Mr. Darcy is
 engaged to my daughter. Now what have you to say?
Only this; that if he is so, you can have no reason to suppose he
 will make an offer to me.
Theengagementbetweenthemisofapeculiarkind. Fromtheirin
fancy, they have beenintendedforeachother. It wasthefavourite wish
 of his mother, as well as of her’s. While in their cradles, we planned the
 union: and now, at the moment when the wishes of both sisters would
 be accomplished in their marriage, to be prevented by a young woman
 of inferior birth, of no importance in the world, and wholly unallied to
 the family! Do you pay no regard to the wishes of his friends? To his
 tacit engagement with Miss de Bourgh? Are you lost to every feeling
 of propriety and delicacy? Have you not heard me say that from his
 earliest hours he was destined for his cousin?
Yes, and I had heard it before. But what is that to me? If there is
 nootherobjection to mymarryingyournephew,Ishallcertainlynotbe
 kept fromit byknowingthathismotherandauntwishedhimtomarry
 248
Miss de Bourgh. You both did as much as you could in planning the
 marriage. Its completion depended on others. If Mr. Darcy is neither
 byhonournorinclination confinedtohiscousin, whyisnothetomake
 another choice? And if I am that choice, why may not I accept him?
Because honour, decorum, prudence, nay, interest, forbid it. Yes,
 Miss Bennet, interest; for do not expect to be noticed by his family
 or friends, if you wilfully act against the inclinations of all. You will
 be censured, slighted, and despised, by everyone connected with him.
 Your alliance will be a disgrace; your name will never even be men
tioned by any of us.
These are heavy misfortunes,
But the wife of
 Mr. Darcy must have such extraordinary sources of happiness neces
sarily attached to her situation, that she could, upon the whole, have
 no cause to repine.
Obstinate, headstrong girl! I am ashamed of you! Is this your grat
itude for my attentions to you last spring? Is nothing due to me on that
 score? Let us sit down. Youaretounderstand, MissBennet, thatIcame
 here with the determined resolution of carrying my purpose; nor will
 I be dissuaded from it. I have not been used to submit to any person’s
 whims. I have not been in the habit of brooking disappointment.
That will make your ladyship’s situation at present more pitiable;
 but it will have no effect on me.
I will not be interrupted. Hear me in silence. My daughter and
 my nephew are formed for each other. They are descended, on the
 maternal side, from the same noble line; and, on the father’s, from re
spectable, honourable, and ancient—though untitled—families. Their
 fortune on both sides is splendid. They are destined for each other by
 the voice of every member of their respective houses; and what is to
 divide them? The upstart pretensions of a young woman without fam
ily, connections, or fortune. Is this to be endured! But it must not, shall
 not be. If you were sensible of your own good, you would not wish to
 quit the sphere in which you have been brought up.
In marryingyournephew,Ishouldnotconsidermyselfasquitting
 that sphere. He is a gentleman; I am a gentleman’s daughter; so far we
 are equal.
True. You are a gentleman’s daughter. But who was your mother?
 Who are your uncles and aunts? Do not imagine me ignorant of their
 condition.
Whatever my connections may be,
if your
 nephew does not object to them, they can be nothing to you.
Tell me once for all, are you engaged to him?
I am not.
And will you promise me, never to enter into such an engage
ment?
I will make no promise of the kind.
Miss Bennet I am shocked and astonished. I expected to find a
 more reasonable young woman. But do not deceive yourself into a
 belief that I will ever recede. I shall not go away till you have given me
 the assurance I require.
And I certainly never shall give it. I am not to be intimidated
 into anything so wholly unreasonable. Your ladyship wants Mr. Darcy
 to marry your daughter; but would my giving you the wished-for
 promise make their marriage at all more probable? Supposing him
 to be attached to me, would my refusing to accept his hand make him
 wish to bestow it on his cousin? Allow me to say, Lady Catherine, that
 the arguments with which you have supported this extraordinary ap
plication have been as frivolous as the application was ill-judged. You
 have widely mistaken my character, if you think I can be worked on
 by such persuasions as these. How far your nephew might approve of
 your interference in his affairs, I cannot tell; but you have certainly no
 right to concern yourself in mine. I must beg, therefore, to be impor
tuned no farther on the subject.
Not so hasty, if you please. I have by no means done. To all the
 objections I have already urged, I have still another to add. I am no
 stranger to the particulars of your youngest sister’s infamous elope
ment. I know it all; that the young man’s marrying her was a patched
up business, at the expence of your father and uncles. And is such a
 girl to be my nephew’s sister? Is her husband, is the son of his late fa
ther’s steward, to be his brother? Heaven and earth!—of what are you
 thinking? Are the shades of Pemberley to be thus polluted?
You can now have nothing further to say,
You have insulted me in every possible method. I must beg
 to return to the house.
Youhavenoregard,then,forthehonourandcreditofmynephew!
 Unfeeling, selfish girl! Do you not consider that a connection with you
 must disgrace him in the eyes of everybody?
Lady Catherine, I have nothing further to say. You know my sen
timents.
You are then resolved to have him?
I have said no such thing. I am only resolved to act in that man
ner, which will, in my own opinion, constitute my happiness, without
 reference to you, or to any person so wholly unconnected with me.
It is well. You refuse, then, to oblige me. You refuse to obey the
 claims of duty, honour, and gratitude. You are determined to ruin him
 in the opinion of all his friends, and make him the contempt of the
 world.
Neither duty, nor honour, nor gratitude,
have
 anypossibleclaimonme,inthepresentinstance. Noprincipleofeither
 would be violated by my marriage with Mr. Darcy. And with regard
 to the resentment of his family, or the indignation of the world, if the
 former were excited by his marrying me, it would not give me one mo
ment’s concern—and the world in general would have too much sense
 to join in the scorn.
Andthis is your real opinion! This is your final resolve! Very well.
 I shall now know how to act. Do not imagine, Miss Bennet, that your
 ambition will ever be gratified. I came to try you. I hoped to find you
 reasonable; but, depend upon it, I will carry my point.
I take no
 leave of you, Miss Bennet. I send no compliments to your mother. You
 deserve no such attention. I am most seriously displeased.
She did not choose it,
she would go.
She is a very fine-looking woman! and her calling here was prodi
giously civil! for she only came, I suppose, to tell us the Collinses were
 well. She is onherroadsomewhere,Idaresay, andso, passingthrough
 Meryton, thought she might as well call on you. I suppose she had
 nothing particular to say to you, Lizzy?
If, therefore, an excuse for not keeping his promise should come
 to his friend within a few days,
I shall know how to un
252
derstand it. I shall then give over every expectation, every wish of his
 constancy. If he is satisfied with only regretting me, when he might
 have obtained my affections and hand, I shall soon cease to regret him
 at all.
Lizzy,
I was going to look for you; come into my room.
I have received a letter this morning that has astonished me ex
ceedingly. As it principally concerns yourself, you ought to know its
 contents. I did not know before, that I had two daughters on the brink
 of matrimony. Let mecongratulate youonaveryimportantconquest.
You look conscious. Young ladies have great penetration in such
 matters as these; but I think I may defy even your sagacity, to discover
 the name of your admirer. This letter is from Mr. Collins.
From Mr. Collins! and what can he have to say?
Something very much to the purpose of course. He begins with
 congratulations on the approaching nuptials of my eldest daughter, of
 which, it seems, he has been told by some of the good-natured, gossip
ing Lucases. I shall not sport with your impatience, by reading what
 he says on that point. What relates to yourself, is as follows: ‘Having
 thus offered you the sincere congratulations of Mrs. Collins and my
self on this happy event, let me now add a short hint on the subject
 of another; of which we have been advertised by the same authority.
 253
Your daughter Elizabeth, it is presumed, will not long bear the name of
 Bennet, after her elder sister has resigned it, and the chosen partner of
 her fate may be reasonably looked up to as one of the most illustrious
 personages in this land.’
 “Canyoupossiblyguess, Lizzy, whoismeantbythis?
Thisyoung
 gentleman is blessed, in a peculiar way, with every thing the heart of
 mortal can most desire,—splendid property, noble kindred, and exten
sive patronage. Yet in spite of all these temptations, let me warn my
 cousin Elizabeth, and yourself, of what evils you may incur by a pre
cipitate closure with this gentleman
Have you any idea, Lizzy, who this gentleman is? But now it
 comes out:
 “‘My motive for cautioning you is as follows. We have reason to
 imagine that his aunt, Lady Catherine de Bourgh, does not look on the
 match with a friendly eye.’
 “Mr. Darcy, you see, is the man! Now, Lizzy, I think I have surprised
 you. Could he, or the Lucases, have pitched on any man within the
 circle of our acquaintance, whose name would have given the lie more
 effectually to what they related? Mr. Darcy, who never looks at any
 womanbuttoseeablemish, and who probably never looked at you in
 his life! It is admirable!
Are you not diverted?
Oh! yes. Pray read on.
‘After mentioning the likelihood of this marriage to her ladyship
 last night, she immediately, with her usual condescension, expressed
 what she felt on the occasion; when it become apparent, that on the
 score of some family objections on the part of my cousin, she would
 never give her consent to what she termed so disgraceful a match.
 I thought it my duty to give the speediest intelligence of this to my
 cousin, that she and her noble admirer may be aware of what they are
 about, and not run hastily into a marriage which has not been prop
erly sanctioned.’ Mr. Collins moreover adds, ‘I am truly rejoiced that
 my cousin Lydia’s sad business has been so well hushed up, and am
 onlyconcernedthattheirlivingtogetherbeforethemarriagetookplace
 should be so generally known. I must not, however, neglect the duties
 of mystation, or refrain from declaring my amazement at hearing that
 you received the young couple into your house as soon as they were
 254
married. It was an encouragement of vice; and had I been the rector of
 Longbourn, I should very strenuously have opposed it. You ought cer
tainly to forgive them, as a Christian, but never to admit them in your
 sight, or allow their namestobementionedinyourhearing.’ Thatishis
 notion of Christian forgiveness! The rest of his letter is only about his
 dear Charlotte’s situation, and his expectation of a young olive-branch.
 But, Lizzy, you look as if you did not enjoy it. You are not going to be
 missish, I hope, and pretend to be affronted at an idle report. For what
 do welive, but to make sport for our neighbours, and laugh at them in
 our turn?
Oh!
I am excessively diverted. But it is so
 strange!
Yes—that is what makes it amusing. Had they fixed on any other
 manit would have been nothing; but his perfect indifference, and your
 pointed dislike, make it so delightfully absurd! Much as I abominate
 writing, I would not give up Mr. Collins’s correspondence for any con
sideration. Nay, when I read a letter of his, I cannot help giving him
 the preference evenoverWickham,muchasIvaluetheimpudenceand
 hypocrisy of my son-in-law. And pray, Lizzy, what said Lady Cather
ine about this report? Did she call to refuse her consent?
Mr. Darcy, I am a very selfish creature; and, for the sake of giv
ing relief to my own feelings, care not how much I may be wounding
 your’s. I can no longer help thanking you for your unexampled kind
ness to my poor sister. Ever since I have known it, I have been most
 anxious to acknowledge to you how gratefully I feel it. Were it known
 to the rest of my family, I should not have merely my own gratitude to
 express.
I am sorry, exceedingly sorry,
that youhaveeverbeeninformedofwhatmay,inamis
taken light, have given you uneasiness. I did not think Mrs. Gardiner
 was so little to be trusted.
You must not blame my aunt. Lydia’s thoughtlessness first be
trayed to methatyouhadbeenconcernedinthematter; and, ofcourse,
 I could not rest till I knew the particulars. Let me thank you again
 and again, in the name of all my family, for that generous compassion
 which induced you to take so much trouble, and bear so many morti
f
 ications, for the sake of discovering them.
If you will thank me,
let it be for yourself alone. That
 the wish of giving happiness to you might add force to the other in
ducements which led me on, I shall not attempt to deny. But your fam
ily owe menothing. Much as I respect them, I believe I thought only of
 you.
You are too generous to trifle with me.
 If your feelings are still what they were last April, tell me so at once.
 Myaffections and wishes are unchanged, but one word from you will
 silence me on this subject for ever.
It taught me to hope,
as I had scarcely ever allowed
 myself to hope before. I knew enough of your disposition to be cer
tain that, had you beenabsolutely, irrevocably decided against me, you
 would have acknowledged it to Lady Catherine, frankly and openly.
Yes, you know
 enough of my frankness to believe me capable of that. After abusing
 yousoabominablytoyourface, Icouldhavenoscrupleinabusingyou
 to all your relations.
What did you say of me, that I did not deserve? For, though your
 accusations were ill-founded, formed on mistaken premises, my be
haviour to you at the time had merited the severest reproof. It was
 unpardonable. I cannot think of it without abhorrence.
We will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that
 evening,
The conduct of neither, if strictly examined,
 will be irreproachable; but since then, we have both, I hope, improved
 in civility.
I cannot be so easily reconciled to myself. The recollection of what
 I then said, of my conduct, my manners, my expressions during the
 whole of it, is now, and has been many months, inexpressibly painful
 to me. Your reproof, so well applied, I shall never forget: ‘had you be
haved in a more gentlemanlike manner.’ Those were your words. You
 257
know not, you can scarcely conceive, how they have tortured me;—
 though it was some time, I confess, before I was reasonable enough to
 allow their justice.
I was certainly very far from expecting them to make so strong an
 impression. I had not the smallest idea of their being ever felt in such
 a way.
I can easily believe it. You thought methendevoidofeveryproper
 feeling, I am sure you did. The turn of your countenance I shall never
 forget, as you said that I could not have addressed you in any possible
 waythat would induce you to accept me.
Oh! donotrepeat what I then said. These recollections will not do
 at all. I assure you that I have long been most heartily ashamed of it.
Did it,
did it soon make
 you think better of me? Did you, on reading it, give any credit to its
 contents?
I knew,
that what I wrote must give you pain, but it
 was necessary. I hope you have destroyed the letter. There was one
 part especially, the opening of it, which I should dread your having
 the power of reading again. I can remember some expressions which
 might justly make you hate me.
The letter shall certainly be burnt, if you believe it essential to the
 preservation of my regard; but, though we have both reason to think
 myopinions not entirely unalterable, they are not, I hope, quite so eas
ily changed as that implies.
When I wrote that letter,
I believed myself per
fectly calm and cool, but I am since convinced that it was written in a
 dreadful bitterness of spirit.
The letter, perhaps, began in bitterness, but it did not end so. The
 adieu is charity itself. But think no more of the letter. The feelings
 of the person who wrote, and the person who received it, are now so
 widely different from what they were then, that every unpleasant cir
cumstance attending it ought to be forgotten. You must learn some of
 my philosophy. Think only of the past as its remembrance gives you
 pleasure.
I cannot give you credit for any philosophy of the kind. Your ret
rospections must be so totally void of reproach, that the contentment
 arising from them is not of philosophy, but, what is much better, of in
nocence. But with me, it is not so. Painful recollections will intrude
 which cannot, which ought not, to be repelled. I have been a selfish
 258
being all my life, in practice, though not in principle. As a child I was
 taught whatwasright, butIwasnottaughttocorrectmytemper. Iwas
 given good principles, but left to follow them in pride and conceit. Un
fortunately an only son (for many years an only child), I was spoilt by
 myparents, who, though good themselves (my father, particularly, all
 that was benevolent and amiable), allowed, encouraged, almost taught
 metobeselfishandoverbearing; tocarefornonebeyondmyownfam
ily circle; to think meanly of all the rest of the world; to wish at least to
 think meanly of their sense and worth compared with my own. Such
 I was, from eight to eight and twenty; and such I might still have been
 but for you, dearest, loveliest Elizabeth! What do I not owe you! You
 taught me a lesson, hard indeed at first, but most advantageous. By
 you, I was properly humbled. I came to you without a doubt of my
 reception. You showed me how insufficient were all my pretensions to
 please a woman worthy of being pleased.
Had youthen persuaded yourself that I should?
Indeed I had. What will you think of my vanity? I believed you to
 be wishing, expecting my addresses.
Mymannersmusthavebeeninfault,butnotintentionally,Iassure
 you. I never meant to deceive you, but my spirits might often lead me
 wrong. Howyoumusthave hated me after that evening?
Hate you! I was angry perhaps at first, but my anger soon began
 to take a proper direction.
I am almost afraid of asking what you thought of me, when we
 met at Pemberley. You blamed me for coming?
Noindeed; I felt nothing but surprise.
Your surprise could not be greater than mine in being noticed by
 you. My conscience told me that I deserved no extraordinary polite
ness, and I confess that I did not expect to receive more than my due.
Myobjectthen,
wastoshowyou,byeverycivility
 in my power, that I was not so mean as to resent the past; and I hoped
 to obtain your forgiveness, to lessen your ill opinion, by letting you see
 that your reproofs had been attended to. How soon any other wishes
 introduced themselves I can hardly tell, but I believe in about half an
 hour after I had seen you.
What could become of Mr. Bingley and Jane!
I must ask whether you were surprised?
Not at all. When I went away, I felt that it would soon happen.
That is to say, youhadgivenyourpermission. Iguessedasmuch.
On the evening before my going to London,
I made a
 confession to him, which I believe I ought to have made long ago. I
 told him of all that had occurred to make my former interference in his
 affairs absurd and impertinent. His surprise was great. He had never
 hadtheslightest suspicion. I told him, moreover, that I believed myself
 mistaken in supposing, as I had done, that your sister was indifferent
 to him; and as I could easily perceive that his attachment to her was
 unabated, I felt no doubt of their happiness together.
Did you speak from your own observation,
when you
 told him that my sister loved him, or merely from my information last
 spring?
From the former. I had narrowly observed her during the two vis
its which I had lately made here; and I was convinced of her affection.
Andyourassurance of it, I suppose, carried immediate conviction
 to him.
It did. Bingley is most unaffectedly modest. His diffidence had
 preventedhisdependingonhisownjudgmentinsoanxiousacase,but
 his reliance on mine made every thing easy. I was obliged to confess
 one thing, which for a time, and not unjustly, offended him. I could not
 allow myself to conceal that your sister had been in town three months
 last winter, that I had known it, and purposely kept it from him. He
 was angry. But his anger, I am persuaded, lasted no longer than he
 remained in any doubt of your sister’s sentiments. He has heartily
 forgiven me now.
MydearLizzy, wherecanyouhavebeenwalkingto?
You are joking, Lizzy. This cannot be!—engaged to Mr. Darcy! No,
 no, you shall not deceive me. I know it to be impossible.
This is a wretched beginning indeed! My sole dependence was on
 you; and I am sure nobody else will believe me, if you do not. Yet,
 indeed, I am in earnest. I speak nothing but the truth. He still loves
 me, and weare engaged.
Oh, Lizzy! it cannot be. I know
 howmuchyoudislike him.
You know nothing of the matter. That is all to be forgot. Perhaps
 I did not always love him so well as I do now. But in such cases as
 these, a good memory is unpardonable. This is the last time I shall
 261
ever remember it myself.
Good Heaven! can it be really so! Yet now I must believe you,
My dear, dear Lizzy, I would—I do congratulate you—but
 are you certain? forgive the question —are you quite certain that you
 can be happy with him?
There can be nodoubtofthat. It is settled between us already, that
 we are to be the happiest couple in the world. But are you pleased,
 Jane? Shall you like to have such a brother?
Very, very much. Nothing could give either Bingley or myself
 more delight. But we considered it, we talked of it as impossible. And
 do you really love him quite well enough? Oh, Lizzy! do anything
 rather than marry without affection. Are you quite sure that you feel
 what you ought to do?
Oh, yes! You will only think I feel more than I ought to do, when I
 tell you all.
What do youmean?
Why, I must confess that I love him better than I do Bingley. I am
 afraid you will be angry.
Mydearest sister, now be serious. I want to talk very seriously. Let
 me know every thing that I am to know, without delay. Will you tell
 mehowlongyouhaveloved him?
It has been coming on so gradually, that I hardly know when it
 began. But I believe I must date it from my first seeing his beautiful
 grounds at Pemberley.
Now I am quite happy,
for you will be as happy as
 myself. I always had a value for him. Were it for nothing but his love
 of you, I must always have esteemed him; but now, as Bingley’s friend
 and your husband, there can be only Bingley and yourself more dear
 to me. But Lizzy, you have been very sly, very reserved with me. How
 little did you tell me of what passed at Pemberley and Lambton! I owe
 all that I know of it to another, not to you.
Good gracious!
if that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again
 with our dear Bingley! What can hemeanbybeingsotiresomeastobe
 always coming here? I had no notion but he would go a-shooting, or
 something or other, and not disturb us with his company. What shall
 we do with him? Lizzy, you must walk out with him again, that he
 maynot be in Bingley’s way.
Mrs. Bennet, have you no
 morelaneshereaboutsinwhichLizzymayloseherwayagainto-day?
I advise Mr. Darcy, and Lizzy, and Kitty,
to
 walk to Oakham Mount this morning. It is a nice long walk, and Mr.
 Darcy has never seen the view.
It may do very well for the others,
but I am
 sure it will be too muchforKitty. Won’tit, Kitty?
I am quite sorry, Lizzy, that you should be forced to have that dis
agreeable man all to yourself. But I hope you will not mind it: it is all
 for Jane’s sake, you know; and there is no occasion for talking to him,
 except just now and then. So, do not put yourself to inconvenience.
Go to
 your father, he wants you in the library.
Lizzy,
what are you doing? Are you out of your senses, to
 be accepting this man? Have not you always hated him?
Or, in other words, you are determined to have him. He is rich,
 to be sure, and you may have more fine clothes and fine carriages than
 Jane. But will they make you happy?
Have you any other objection,
than your belief
 of myindifference?
None at all. We all know him to be a proud, unpleasant sort of
 man; but this would be nothing if you really liked him.
I do, I do like him,
I love him.
 Indeed he has no improper pride. He is perfectly amiable. You do not
 know what he really is; then pray do not pain me by speaking of him
 in such terms.
Lizzy,
I have given him my consent. He is the
 kind of man, indeed, to whom I should never dare refuse anything,
 which he condescended to ask. I now give it to you, if you are re
solved on having him. But let me advise you to think better of it. I
 knowyour disposition, Lizzy. I know that you could be neither happy
 nor respectable, unless you truly esteemed your husband; unless you
 looked up to him as a superior. Your lively talents would place you
 in the greatest danger in an unequal marriage. You could scarcely es
cape discredit and misery. My child, let me not have the grief of seeing
 you unable to respect your partner in life. You know not what you are
 about.
Well, my dear,
I have no
 more to say. If this be the case, he deserves you. I could not have
 parted with you, my Lizzy, to anyone less worthy.
This is an evening of wonders, indeed! And so, Darcy did every
 thing; madeupthematch,gavethemoney,paidthefellow’sdebts, and
 got him his commission! So much the better. It will save me a world
 of trouble and economy. Had it been your uncle’s doing, I must and
 would have paid him; but these violent young lovers carry every thing
 their own way. I shall offer to pay him to-morrow; he will rant and
 storm about his love for you, and there will be an end of the matter.
If any young
 mencomefor Mary or Kitty, send them in, for I am quite at leisure.
Good gracious! Lord bless me! only think! dear me! Mr. Darcy!
 Who would have thought it! And is it really true? Oh! my sweetest
 265
Lizzy! how rich and how great you will be! What pin-money, what
 jewels, what carriages you will have! Jane’s is nothing to it—nothing at
 all. I am so pleased—so happy. Such a charming man!—so handsome!
 so tall!—Oh, my dear Lizzy! pray apologise for my having disliked
 him so much before. I hope he will overlook it. Dear, dear Lizzy. A
 houseintown! Everythingthatischarming! Threedaughtersmarried!
 Ten thousand a year! Oh, Lord! What will become of me. I shall go
 distracted.
My dearest child,
I can think of nothing else! Ten
 thousand a year, and very likely more! ’Tis as good as a Lord! And a
 special licence. You must and shall be married by a special licence. But
 my dearest love, tell me what dish Mr. Darcy is particularly fond of,
 that I may have it to-morrow.
I admire all mythree sons-in-law highly,
Wickham, per
haps, is my favourite; but I think I shall like your husband quite as well
 as Jane’s.
How
 could you begin?
I can comprehend your going on charm
ingly, when you had once made a beginning; but what could set you
 off in the first place?
I cannot fix on the hour, or the spot, or the look, or the words,
 266
which laid the foundation. It is too long ago. I was in the middle
 before I knew that I had begun.
Mybeauty you had early withstood, and as for my manners—my
 behaviour to you was at least always bordering on the uncivil, and I
 never spoke to you without rather wishing to give you pain than not.
 Nowbesincere; did you admire me for my impertinence?
For the liveliness of your mind, I did.
You mayaswellcall it impertinence at once. It was very little less.
 Thefact is, that you were sick of civility, of deference, of officious atten
tion. You were disgusted with the women who were always speaking,
 and looking, and thinking for your approbation alone. I roused, and
 interested you, because I was so unlike them. Had you not been really
 amiable, you would have hated me for it; but in spite of the pains you
 took to disguise yourself, your feelings were always noble and just;
 and in your heart, you thoroughly despised the persons who so assid
uously courted you. There—I have saved you the trouble of account
ing for it; and really, all things considered, I begin to think it perfectly
 reasonable. To be sure, you knew no actual good of me—but nobody
 thinks of that when they fall in love.
Was there no good in your affectionate behaviour to Jane while
 she was ill at Netherfield?
Dearest Jane! who could havedonelessfor her? Butmakeavirtue
 of it by all means. My good qualities are under your protection, and
 you are to exaggerate them as much as possible; and, in return, it be
longs to me to find occasions for teasing and quarrelling with you as
 often as may be; and I shall begin directly by asking you what made
 you so unwilling to come to the point at last. What made you so shy of
 me, whenyoufirstcalled, and afterwards dined here? Why, especially,
 when youcalled, did you look as if you did not care about me?
Because you were grave and silent, and gave me no encourage
ment.
But I was embarrassed.
And so wasI.
You might have talked to me more when you came to dinner.
Amanwhohadfelt less, might.
How unlucky that you should have a reasonable answer to give,
 and that I should be so reasonable as to admit it! But I wonder how
 long youwouldhavegoneon,ifyouhadbeenlefttoyourself. Iwonder
 when you would have spoken, if I had not asked you! My resolution
 of thanking you for your kindness to Lydia had certainly great effect.
 Too much, I am afraid; for what becomes of the moral, if our comfort
 267
springs from a breach of promise? for I ought not to have mentioned
 the subject. This will never do.
You need not distress yourself. The moral will be perfectly fair.
 Lady Catherine’s unjustifiable endeavours to separate us were the
 means of removing all my doubts. I am not indebted for my present
 happiness to your eager desire of expressing your gratitude. I was
 not in a humour to wait for any opening of your’s. My aunt’s intelli
gence hadgivenmehope,andIwasdeterminedatoncetoknowevery
 thing.
Lady Catherine has been of infinite use, which ought to make her
 happy, for she loves to be of use. But tell me, what did you come down
 to Netherfield for? Was it merely to ride to Longbourn and be embar
rassed? or had you intended any more serious consequence?
My real purpose was to see you, and to judge, if I could, whether
 I might ever hope to make you love me. My avowed one, or what I
 avowed to myself, was to see whether your sister were still partial to
 Bingley, and if she were, to make the confession to him which I have
 since made.
Shall you ever have courage to announce to Lady Catherine what
 is to befall her?
I ammorelikely to want more time than courage, Elizabeth. But it
 ought to done, and if you will give me a sheet of paper, it shall be done
 directly.
And if I had not a letter to write myself, I might sit by you and
 admire the evenness of your writing, as another young lady once did.
 But I have an aunt, too, who must not be longer neglected.
I would have thanked you before, my dear aunt, as I ought to
 have done, for your long, kind, satisfactory, detail of particulars; but to
 say the truth, I was too cross to write. You supposed more than really
 existed. But now suppose as much as you choose; give a loose rein
 to your fancy, indulge your imagination in every possible flight which
 the subject will afford, and unless youbelievemeactuallymarried, you
 cannot greatly err. You must write again very soon, and praise him a
 great deal morethanyoudidinyourlast. Ithankyou, againandagain,
 268
for not going to the Lakes. How could I be so silly as to wish it! Your
 idea of the ponies is delightful. We will go round the Park every day.
 I am the happiest creature in the world. Perhaps other people have
 said so before, but not one with such justice. I am happier even than
 Jane; she only smiles, I laugh. Mr. Darcy sends you all the love in the
 world that he can spare from me. You are all to come to Pemberley at
 Christmas. Yours, etc.
Dear Sir,
 “I must trouble you once more for congratulations. Elizabeth will
 soon be the wife of Mr. Darcy. Console Lady Catherine as well as you
 can. But, if I were you, I would stand by the nephew. He has more to
 give.
 “Yours sincerely, etc.
Mydear Lizzy,
 “I wish you joy. If you love Mr. Darcy half as well as I do my dear
 Wickham, you must be very happy. It is a great comfort to have you
 so rich, and when you have nothing else to do, I hope you will think
 of us. I am sure Wickham would like a place at court very much, and
 I do not think we shall have quite money enough to live upon without
 somehelp. Anyplacewoulddo,ofaboutthreeorfourhundredayear;
 but however, do not speak to Mr. Darcy about it, if you had rather not.
 “Yours, etc.
