ll do my best to explain. As a child, I had simply no interest in books. I
 hated reading, I was very bad at it, and besides, how could you take the time to read when there were
 games that shrieked for playing? Basketball, baseball, marblesI could never get enough. I wasn
I don't feel Billy is perhaps
 extending himself quite as much as he might.
When we test him, Billy does really exceptionally
 well, considering his class standing.
I don't know, Mrs. Goldman; what are we going to
 do about Billy?
What are we going to do about you, Billy?
I don't know, Miss Roginski.
How could you have failed this reading test? I've heard you use every word with my own ears.
I'm sorry, Miss Roginski. I must not have been thinking.
You're always thinking, Billy. You just weren't thinking about the reading test.
What was it this time?
I don't know. I can't remember.
Was it Stanley Hack again?
 third baseman for these and many other years. I
 saw him play once from a bleacher seat, and even at that distance he had the sweetest smile I had ever
 seen and to this day I swear he smiled at me several times. I just worshipped him. He could also hit a ton.
 )
 "Bronko Nagurski. He

 She just sagged at her desk. 
ve got a wonderful imagination, Billy."
 I don
thank you
I can't harness it, though,
Why is that?
I think it's that probably I need glasses and I don't read because the words are so fuzzy. That would
 explain why I'm all the time squinting. Maybe if I went to an eye doctor who could give me glasses I'd be
 the best reader in class and you wouldn't have to keep me after school so much.
Get to work cleaning the blackboards, Billy.
Yes, ma'am.
Do they look fuzzy?
Oh, no, I just made that up.
I'm just not getting through to you somehow.
It's not your fault, Miss Roginski.
t. I just worshipped her too. She was all dumpy and fat but I
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (2 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:28:58 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 used to wish she
d gotten divorced and my father had married my mother, which
 was okay, because Miss Roginski had to work, so my father got custody of methat all made sense. Only
 they never seemed to know each other, my dad and Miss Roginski. Whenever they
d watch the two of them like crazy, hoping for
 some kind of secret glimmer or look that could only mean, "Well, how are you, how
 but no soap. She wasn't my mother, she was just my teacher, and I was her
 own personal and growing disaster area.)
 
re going to be all right, Billy."
 "I sure hope so, Miss Roginski."
 "You
s all. Winston Churchill was a late bloomer and so are you."
 I was about to ask her who he played for but there was something in her tone that made me know enough
 not to.
 "And Einstein."
 Him I also didn
s wrong with
 publishing in America today which is not part of this story. ) Anyway, before publication, the publicity
 people at Knopf were talking to me, trying to figure what they could do to justify their salaries, and they
 asked who did I want to send advance copies to that might be an opinion maker, and I said I didn
Think, everybody knows somebody,
Okay, send a copy to Miss Roginski,
s all through Temple of Gold, by the
 way, only I called her "Miss Patulski"even then I was creative. )
 "Who?" this publicity lady said.
 "This old teacher of mine, you send her a copy and I
 I was really
 excited until this publicity guy interrupted with, 

 Very soft I said, 

 
 he said, 

 You remember how I didn't ask who Churchill played for because of her tone? I must have hit that same
 tone too just then. Anyway, something must have happened because he right away wrote her name down
 asking was it ski or sky.
 
 I told him, already hiking through the years, trying to get the inscription fantastic for her.
 You know, clever and modest and brilliant and perfect, like that.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (3 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:28:58 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 

 That brought me back fast. I didn't know her first name. 
 was all I ever called her. I didn't know
 her address either. I didn't even know if she was alive or not. I hadn't been back to Chicago in ten years; I
 was an only child, both folks gone, who needed Chicago?
 
 I said, and first what I thought I'd write was 
 but then I thought that was too conceited, so I decided 
 would be more humble. Too humble, I decided next, and
 that was it for bright ideas that day. I couldn't think of anything. Then I thought, What if she doesn't even
 remember me? Hundreds of students over the years, why should she? So finally in desperation I put, 

 The book came out and got bombed; I stayed in and did the same, adjusting. Not only did it not establish
 me as the freshest thing since Kit Marlowe, it also didn't get read by anybody. Not true. It got read by any
 number of people, all of whom I knew. I think it is safe to say, however, no strangers savored it. It was a
 grinding experience and I reacted as indicated above. So when Miss Roginski's note camelateit got sent
 to Knopf and they took their time relaying itI was really ready for a lift.
 

 What a crusher. She didn't remember me at all. I sat there holding the note, rocked. People don't
 remember me. Really. It's not any paranoid thing; I just have this habit of slipping through memories. It
 doesn't bother me all that much, except I guess that's a lie; it does. For some reason, I test very high on
 forgettability.
 So when Miss Roginski sent me that note making her just like everyone else, I was glad she'd never
 gotten married, I'd never liked her anyway, she'd always been a rotten teacher, and it served her right her
 first name was Antonia.
 
t mean it," I said out loud right then. I was alone in my one-room job on Manhattan
I'm sorry, I'm sorry,
You got to believe that, Miss
 Roginski
d finally seen the postscript. It was on the back of the
 thank-you note and what it said was, "Idiot. Not even the immortal S. Morgenstern could feel more
 parental than I."
 S. Morgenstern! The Princess Bride. She remembered!
 Flashback.
 1941. Autumn. I
t get the football games. Northwestern is playing
 Notre Dame, it starts at one, and by one-thirty I can
s busted, I can
s Friday, she says; I
 thought they played on Saturday.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (4 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:28:58 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Am I an idiot!
 I lie back, listening to the soaps, and after a little I try finding it again, and my stupid radio will pick up
 every Chicago station except the one carrying the football game. I really holler now, and again my
 mother tears in. I
t get it, it won
s Friday. She goes again.
 Was there ever so ample a dunce?
 Humiliated, I flick around on my trusty Zenith, trying to find the football game. It was so frustrating I
 was lying there sweating and my stomach felt crazy and I was pounding the top of the radio to make it
 work right and that was how they discovered I was delirious with pneumonia.
  Pneumonia today is not what it once was, especially when I had it. Ten days or so in the hospital and
 then home for the long recuperating period. I guess it was three more weeks in bed, a month maybe. No
 energy, no games even. I just was this lump going through a strength-gathering time, period.
 Which is how you have to think of me when I came upon The Princess Bride.
 It was my first night home. Drained; still one sick cookie. My father came in, I thought to say good night.
 He sat on the end of my bed. "Chapter One. The Bride," he said.
 It was then only I kind of looked up and saw he was holding a book. That alone was surprising. My
 father was next to illiterate. In English. He came from Florin (the setting of The Princess Bride) and there
 he had been no fool. He said once he would have ended up a lawyer, and maybe so. The facts are when
 he was sixteen he got a shot at coming to America, gambled on the land of opportunity and lost. There
 was never much here for him. He was not attractive to look upon, very short and from an early age bald,
 and he was ponderous at learning. Once he got a fact, it stayed, but the hours it took to pass into his
 cranium were not to be believed. His English always stayed ridiculously immigranty, and that didn
s all any of this is. When they told me I was terribly upset, but I thought at the
 same time it was an almost Existence-Proving way for him to go.
 Anyway, I said, "Huh? What? I didn
 I was so weak, so terribly tired.
 
 He held up the book then. 
m reading it to you for relax." He practically
 shoved the book in my face. "By S. Morgenstern. Great Florinese writer. The Princess Bride. He too
 came to America. S. Morgenstern. Dead now in New York. The English is his own. He spoke eight
 tongues." Here my father put down the book and held up all his fingers."Eight. Once, in Florin City, I
 was in his cafe." He shook his head now; he was always doing that, my father, shaking his head when
 he
Not his cafe. He was in it, me too, the same time. I saw him. S. Morgenstern. He had
 head like this, that big,
Great man in Florin City. Not so
 much in America.
Has it got any sports in it?
Fencing. Fighting. Torture. Poison. True love. Hate. Revenge. Giants. Hunters. Bad men. Good men.
 Beautifulest ladies. Snakes. Spiders. Beasts of all natures and descriptions. Pain. Death. Brave men.
 Coward men. Strongest men. Chases. Escapes. Lies. Truths. Passion. Miracles.
Sounds okay,
I'll do my best to stay awake . . . but I'm awful
 sleepy, Daddy. . . .
How about the duel on
 the cliff with Inigo and the man in black?
s how I summon
 back my father when the need arises. Slumped and squinting and halting over words, giving me
 Morgenstern
t an adventure story anywhere that was safe from me. "Come on," I would say to Miss
 Roginski when I was well again. "Stevenson, you keep saying Stevenson, I
 and she would say, 
 so I fried old Sir Walter and I liked
 him well enough to butt through a half-dozen books in December (a lot of that was Christmas vacation
 when I didn't have to interrupt my reading for anything but now and then a little food). 
 
 she'd say, so off I went into The Deerslayer and all the Leatherstocking stuff,
 and then on my own one day I stumbled onto Dumas and D'Artagnan and that got me through most of
 February, those guys. 
 Miss Roginski said. 
 I never minded when she knocked me. We were
 alone in the schoolroom, and I was after her for somebody good to devour. She shook her head. 
re
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (6 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:28:58 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 certainly blooming, Billy. Before my very eyes. I just don

 I just stood there and waited for her to tell me to read somebody.
 
re impossible, standing there waiting." She thought a second. "All right. Try Hugo. The Hunchback
 of Notre Dame."
 "Hugo," I said."Hunchback. Thank you," and I turned, ready to begin my sprint to the library. I heard her
 words sighed behind me as I moved.
 "This can
t last."
 But it did.
 And it has. I am as devoted to adventure now as then, and that
ve seen sixteen times and I still think is the greatest adventure movie ever ever ever made.
 (True story about Gunga Din: when I got discharged from the Army, I made a vow never to go back on
 an Army post. No big deal, just a simple lifelong vow. Okay, now I
ve got a buddy at Fort Sheridan nearby and I call to check in and he says, "Hey, guess what
 
ll go," I said. "It
 he said; 
re a civilian." Upshot: I got back into
 uniform the first night I was out and snuck onto an Army post to see that movie. Snuck back. A thief in
 the night. Heart pounding, the sweats, everything. ) I
t miss John Wayne pictures.
 My whole life really began with my father reading me the Morgenstern when I was ten. Fact: Butch
 Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is, no question, the most popular thing I
s going to be because of Butch. Okay, now what
d been a girl, he would have
 been Pamby; can you believe that, a woman child psychiatrist who would give her kids such names?)
 anyway, when Jason was born, I made a mental note to buy him a copy of The Princess Bride for his
 tenth birthday.
 After which I promptly forgot all about it.
 Flash forward: the Beverly Hills Hotel last December. I am going mad having meetings on Ira Levin
re talking and at the close she says, "Oh.
 We
t you?"
 "Why fitting?"
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (7 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:28:59 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 "Oh come on, Willy, ten years, ten speeds."
 "Is he ten tomorrow? It went clean outta my head."
 "Call us at suppertime tomorrow and you can wish him a happy."
 "Helen?" I said then. "Listen, do me something. Buzz the Nine-nine-nine bookshop and have them send
 over The Princess Bride."
 "Lemme get a pencil," and she
Okay. Shoot. The what bride?
Princess. By S. Morgenstern. It's a kids' classic. Tell him I'll quiz him on it when I'm back next week
 and that he doesn't have to like it or anything, but if he doesn't, tell him I'll kill myself. Give him that
 message exactly please; I wouldn't want to apply any extra pressure or anything.
Kiss me, my fool.
Mmmm-wah.
No starlets now.
They're extinct, dummy.
m lolling by the pool and she moves by in a bikini and she is gorgeous. I
t know a soul, so I start playing a game about how can I approach this girl so she
 won
t come up with any approach that connects with reality, so I start to swim my laps. I swim
 a quarter-mile a day because I have a bad disc at the base of my spine.
 Up and back, up and back, eighteen laps, and when I
m hanging on in the deep end, panting
 away, and over swims this starlet. She hangs on the ledge in the deep end too, maybe all of six inches
 away, hair all wet and glistening and the body
s there and she says (this
 happened now), "Pardon me, but aren
s, like, my favorite book in all the world."
 I clutch the ledge and nod; I don
s too goonlike to put it down; ye gods, I
Goldman, yes Goldman, I'm
 Goldman.
s no telling what language she thought I was
 responding in. )
 "I
 she said. 

 
 I got out, which was pretty suave, suave for me anyway; I'd say it again if the same
 situation came up.
 Then my name was paged. 
t leave me alone," I say, and she breaks out laughing and I
 hurry to the phone thinking was it really all that clever, and by the time I get there I decide yes it was,
 and into the receiver I say that, "Clever." Not "hello." Not "Bill Goldman." "Clever" is what I say.
 "Did you say 
 Willy?" It
I'm in a story conference, Helen, and we're speaking tonight at suppertime. Why are you calling at lunch
 for?
Hostile, hostile.
s a certified Freudian. "It
re driving me
 crazy with stupid notions in this story conference. What

 
s out of print. I
s too. You
 sounded kind of like it might be important so I

 
 I said. Sandy Sterling was smiling. From the deep end. Straight at me. 
 I was about to hang up, then I said, 
ve gone this far, call Argosy on
 Fifty-ninth Street. They specialize in out-of-print stuff."
 "Argosy. Fifty-ninth. Got it. Talk to you at supper. " She hung up.
 Without saying "No starlets now." Every call she ends with that and now she doesn
s very spooky about that, being a shrink and all. Guilt, like
 pudding, began bubbling on the back burner.
 I went back to my lounge chair. Alone.
 Sandy Sterling swam a few laps. I picked up my New York Times. A certain amount of sexual tension in
 the vicinity. "Done swimming?" she asks. I put my paper down. She was by the edge of the pool now,
 nearest my chair.
 I nod. staring at her.
 "Which Zanuck, Dick or Darryl?"
 "It was my wife," I said. Emphasis on the last word.
 Didn
You're out here on the Levin, aren't you? Stepford Wives?
I'm doing the screenplay.
I really loved that book. That's, like, my favorite book in all the world. I'd really love to be in a picture
 like that. Written by you. I'd do anything for a shot at that.
Listen,
I don't do things like that. If I did, I would, because
 you're gorgeous, that goes without saying, and I wish you joy, but life's too complicated without that kind
 of thing going on.
s what I thought I was going to say. But then I figured, Hey wait a minute, what law is there that
 says you have to be the token puritan of the movie business? I
Have you acted a lot in features?
Nothing that really enlarged my boundaries, y' know what I mean?
Mr. Goldman?
For you again.
Willy?
s voice sent sheer blind misgivings through each and every bit of me.
 "Yes, Helen?"
 "You sound funny."
 "What is it, Helen?"
 "Nothing, but"
 "It can
t have called me."
 "What

 
 I can be pretty distant when I put my mind to it.
 
re hiding something."
 Nothing drives me crazier than when Helen does that. Because, see, with this horrible psychiatrist
 background of hers, she only accuses me of hiding things from her when I
Helen, I'm in the middle of a story conference now; just get on with it.
Argosy doesn't have the book, nobody has the book, good-by, Willy.
Wife again?
You sure talk to each other a lot.
I know,
It's murder trying to get any writing done.
Chapter One. The Bride,
Huh?
My fa
I thou
Nothing,
Easy,
t ever understanding. She was always saying she was"I
 understand why you
but secretly she was ferreting out my neuroses. No, I guess she
 was understanding; what she wasn't was sympathetic. And, of course, she wasn't gorgeous too. Skinny,
 yes. Brilliant, yes.
 
 I said to Sandy Sterling. 

 Sandy Sterling was having a little trouble with my train of thought.
 

 

 I really laughed then. Gorgeous and understanding and funny?
 
 my father said. 

 It was 12: 35 and I said, 

 

 
 I said into the receiver, and when I was through I said, 
 Fourth
 Avenue is the used and out-of-print book center of the English-speaking chapter of the civilized world.
 While the operator looked, I turned to the creature on the next lounge and said, 
s ten today, I
t take a sec."
 "Swing," Sandy Sterling said.
 "I list one bookstore called the Fourth Avenue Bookshop," the operator said, and she gave me the
 number.
 "Can
re all down there in a clump."
 "If yew we-ill give mee they-re names, I can help you, " the operator said, speaking Bell talk.
 "This one
 I said, and I got the hotel operator to ring through for me. 
m calling from Los
 Angeles, " I said, "and I need The Princess Bride by S. Morgenstern."
 "Nope. Sorry," the guy said, and before I could say, "Well, could you give me the names of the other
 stores down there, " he hung up. "Get me that number back please," I said to the hotel operator, and when
 the guy was on the line again, I said, "This is your Los Angeles correspondent; don

 
t got it, mister."
 "I understand that. What I
m in California, could you give me the names and numbers of
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (11 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:28:59 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 some of the other stores down there. They might have it and there aren

 
t help me, I don
 He hung up again.
 I sat there with the receiver in my hand.
 
s this special book?" Sandy Sterling asked.
 "Not important," I said, and hung up. Then I said, "Yes it is" and picked up the receiver again, eventually
 got my publishing house in New York, Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, and, after a few more eventuallys,
 my editor
Hunters,
Bad men. Good men. Beautifulest ladies.
Listen, I'm calling from Los Angeles on the Morgenstern book, The
 Princess Bride, and . . .
 . . . sorry . . .
 . . . sorry . . .
 . . . not for years . . .
t, but it
 sure looked that way.
 " . . . sorry, had a copy in December . . ."
 " . . . no soap, sorry . . ."
 "This is a recorded announcement. The number you have dialed is not in working order. Please hang up
 and . . ."
 " . . . nope . . ."
 Sandy really upset now. Glaring, gathering debris.
 " . . . who reads Morgenstern today? . . ."
 Sandy going, going, gorgeous, gone.
 Bye, Sandy. Sorry, Sandy.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (12 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:28:59 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 " . . . sorry, we

 1:55 now. 4:55 in New York.
 Panic in Los Angeles.
 Busy.
 No answer.
 No answer.
 

 I sat up in my lounge chair. His accent was thick. 

 
t get much call for Morgenstern nowadays. I don

 
m in California," I said.
 "Mashuganuh," he said.
 "It would mean just a great deal to me if you

 
m not gonna pay for this call."
 "Take your time," I said.
 He took seventeen minutes. I just hung on, listening. Every so often I
uch uch
Well, I got the Florinese like I thought.
But not the English,
s yelling at me: "What, are you crazy? I break my back and he says I haven
s gonna cost a pretty penny."
 "Greatreally, no kidding, now listen, here

 
s coming up a blizzard and I
t leave my premises without thirteen dollars changing
 hands."
 "Don
 I said, hanging up, and who do you call when it's after hours and Christmas on the
 horizon? Only your lawyer. 
 I said when I got him. 
s, give him thirteen dollars for two books, taxi up to my house and tell the doorman to take
 them to my apartment, and yes, I know it

 

 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (13 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:28:59 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 I called Abromowitz yet again. 

 
 Abromowitz said.
 
re all heart." I hung up, and started figuring. More or less 120 minutes long distance at $1.35 per
 first three minutes plus thirteen for the books plus probably ten for Charley
s not forget Sandy Sterling.
 A steal.
 They called me at half past seven. I was in my suite. "He loves the bike," Helen said. "He

 
 I said.
 

 
 I said; Chevalier was never more casual.
 

 
s nice," I said, still loose. "I practically forgot I asked to have 

 
d they get here?"
 "I called my editor
 (They did have copies at Harcourt; can you buy that? I'll get to why in the next
 pages, probably.) 

 
 he said a second later.
 
 I told him. 

 

 Jason has inherited his mother's total lack of humor. I don't know; maybe he's funny and I'm not. We just
 don't laugh much together is all I can say for sure. My son Jason is this incredible-looking kidpaint him
 yellow, he'd mop up for the school sumo team. A blimp. All the time stuffing his face. I watch my weight
 and old Helen is only visible full front plus on top of which she is this leading child shrink in Manhattan
 and our kid can roll faster than he can walk. 
s expressing himself through food," Helen always says.
 "His anxieties. When he feels ready to cope, he

 
d sure like it if maybe you
m gone. I loved it when I was a kid and I

 
 He was his mother's son all right.
 
ll talk to you on your
 birthday."
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (14 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:28:59 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 "Boy, are you wrong. Today is my birthday."
 We bantered a bit more, long past when there was much to say. Then I did the same with my spouse, and
 hung up, promising a return by the end of one week.
 It took two.
 Conferences dragged, producers got inspirations that had to carefully get shot down, directors needed
 their egos soothed. Anyway, I was longer than anticipated in sunny Cal. Finally, though, I was allowed to
 return to the care and safety of the family, so I quick buzzed to L.A. airport before anybody
Lemmesee, lemmesee the pockets
t it awful what we
Lemmesee the pockets,
what
 a dashing-looking fellow I have,
Angelica's just getting dinner on,
you couldn't have
 timed it better.
Angelica?
It's her third day on but I think she may be a treasure.
What was wrong with the treasure we had when I left? She'd only been with us a
 week then?
She proved a disappointment,
t keep a maid. First, I guess she feels guilty having anybody, since most of the anybody
s so efficient, she
 scares them. She can do everything better than they can and she knows it and she knows they know it.
 Third, once she
t be
 frightened, and after a good solid half-hour ego search with Helen, they
treasures
We've been running in bad luck but it'll change,
t like pot roast, since I
Angelica,
this is Mr. Goldman.
Hi
Angelica, this is not meant to be construed as criticism, since what happened is all my fault, but in the
 future we must both try very hard to remember that Mr. Goldman likes his roast beef rare
This was roast beef?
Now, Angelica, there is no problem, and / should have told you more than once
 about Mr. Goldman's preferences, but next time we have boned rib roast, let's all do our best to make the
 middle pink, shall we?
treasure
Hey,
let's go a little easy, huh, fella?
Jason, they're just loaded,
I'm really hungry, Dad,
Fill up on the meat then, why don't you,
Eat all the meat you want, I won't say a word.
I'm not eatin' nothin'!
If I were a furniture salesperson,
or perhaps a teller in a bank, I could understand;
 but how can you have spent all these years married to a psychiatrist and talk like that. You're out of the
 Dark Ages, Willy.
Helen, the boy is overweight. All I suggested was he might leave a few potatoes for the rest of the world
 and stuff on this lovely prime pot roast your treasure has whipped up for my triumphant return.
Willy, I don't want to shock you, but Jason happens to have not only a very fine mind but also
 exceptionally keen eyesight. When he looks at himself in the mirror, I assure you he knows he is not
 slender. That is because he does not choose, at this stage, to be slender.
He's not that far from dating, Helen; what then?
Jason is ten, darling, and not interested, at this stage, in girls. At this stage, he is interested in rocketry.
 What difference does a slight case of overweight make to a rocket lover? When he chooses to be slender,
 I assure you, he has both the intelligence and the will power to become slender. Until that time, please, in
 my presence, do not frustrate the child.
I'm not eatin' and that's it,
Sweet child,
be
 logical. If you do not eat your potatoes, you will be upset, and I will be upset; your father, clearly, is
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (16 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:28:59 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 already upset. If you do eat your potatoes, I shall be pleased, you will be pleased, your tummy will be
 pleased. We can do nothing about your father. You have it in your power to upset all or one, about
 whom, as I have already said, we can do nothing. Therefore, the conclusion should be clear, but I have
 faith in your ability to reach it yourself. Do what you will, Jason.
You're making a poof out of that kid,
s always trouble, which is
 because, Helen says, I bring tension with me, I always need inhuman proof that I
m
 still needed, loved, etc. All I know is, I hate being away but coming home is the worst. There
well, what's new since I'm gone
I'll bet you're a whiz on that bike,
Maybe we'll go for a ride this weekend.
I really loved the book, Dad. It was great.
s always saying, Jason ain
Well I'm glad,
Maybe it's even the best I read in all my life.
What was your favorite part?
Chapter One. The Bride,
s not that much that goes on
 compared with the incredible stuff later. Buttercup grows up mostly is all. "How about the climb up the
 Cliffs of Insanity?" I said then. That
Oh, great,
And that description of Prince Humperdinck's Zoo of Death?
s in the second chapter.
 "Even greater," Jason said.
 "What knocked me out about it," I said, "was that it
s going to figure in later. Did you get that same feeling?"
 "Umm-humm." Jason nodded. "Great."
 By then I knew he hadn
He tried to read it,
He did read the first chapter. Chapter Two was impossible for him, so
 when he'd made a sufficient and reasonable attempt, I told him to stop. Different people have different
 tastes. I told him you'd understand, Willy.
I didn't like it, Dad. I wanted to.
You're not eating the spinach either?
Time change; I'm not hungry.
t say anything until she heard me open the front door.
 "Where are you going?" she called then. If I
t aware of being cold though. All I knew was I was
 forty years old and I didn
Don't you bug me!
He did try,
I never thought he didn't,
Where's the book?
The library, I think.
Can I get you anything?
t even Harcourt, Brace & World yet.
 Just plain old Harcourt, Brace period. I flicked to the title page, which was funny, since I
d done the handling. I had to laugh when I saw the real title,
 because right there it said:
 You had to admire a guy who called his own new book a classic before it was published and anyone else
 had a chance to read it. Maybe he figured if he didn
t know. I skimmed the first chapter, and it was pretty much
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (18 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:28:59 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 exactly as I remembered. Then I turned to the second chapter, the one about Prince Humperdinck and the
 little kind of tantalizing description of the Zoo of Death.
 And that
t there. It was, and again pretty much as I remembered it. But before you
 got to it, there were maybe sixty pages of text dealing with Prince Humperdinck
t writing any children
s Vineyard. Hiram Haydn
ve been through a lot together, but never any phone
 calls at two in the morning. To this day I know he doesn
t wait till maybe
 breakfast. "You
re all right, Bill," he kept saying.
 "Hey, Hiram," I began after about six rings. "Listen, you guys published a book just after World War I.
 Do you think it might be a good idea for me to abridge it and we

 
re sure you

 
d just use the good parts. I

 
s two in the morning up here. Are you still in California?"
 I acted like I was all shocked and surprised. So he wouldn
I'm sorry, Hiram. My God,
 what an idiot; it's only 11:00 in Beverly Hills. Do you think you could ask Mr. Jovanovich, though?
You mean now?
Tomorrow or the next day, no big deal.
I'll ask him anything, only I'm not quite sure I'm getting an accurate reading on exactly what you want.
 You're sure you're all right, Bill?
I'll be in New York tomorrow. Call you then about the specifics, okay?
Could you make it a little earlier in the business day, Bill?
Hey, Zig, could you
 get me a postponement on the Stepford Wives? There's this other thing that's come up.
You're contracted to start now; how long a postponement?
I can't say for sure; I've never done an abridgement before. Just tell me what you think they'd do?
I think if it's a long postponement they'd threaten to sue and you'd end up losing the job.
t make any friends in "the industry," as those of us in show biz call movies.
 But the abridgement got done, and you hold it in your hands. The "good parts" version.
 Why did I go through all that?
 Helen pressured me greatly to think about an answer. She felt it was important, not that she know
 necessarily, but that I know. "Because you acted crackers, Willy boy," she said. "You had me truly
 scared."
 So why?
 I never was worth beans at self-scrutiny. Everything I write is impulse. This feels right, that sounds
 wronglike that. I can
t expect this to change anybody else
true love and high adventure
t, but I don
s high
 adventure left any more. Nobody takes out a sword nowadays and cries, "Hello. My name is Inigo
 Montoya. You killed my father; prepare to die!"
 And true love you can forget about too. I don
s and the cheese enchilada at El Parador
s the "good parts" version. S. Morgenstern wrote it. And my father read it to me. And now
 I give it to you. What you do with it will be of more than passing interest to us all.
 New York City
 December, 1972
 One
 THE BRIDE
 The year that Buttercup was born, the most beautiful woman in the world was a French scullery maid
 named Annette. Annette worked in Paris for the Duke and Duchess de Guiche, and it did not escape the
 Duke
s notice did not escape the
 notice of the Duchess either, who was not very beautiful and not very rich, but plenty smart. The
 Duchess set about studying Annette and shortly found her adversary
t have ulcers yet. More precisely, ulcers existed, people had
 them, but they weren
ulcers.
stomach pains
s grumpiness became legendary, as Voltaire
 has so ably chronicled. (Except this was before Voltaire.)
 The year Buttercup turned ten, the most beautiful woman lived in Bengal, the daughter of a successful
 tea merchant. This girl
Not only am I perfect,
I am probably the first perfect person in the whole
 long history of the universe. Not a part of me could stand improving, how lucky I am to be perfect and
 rich and sought after and sensitive and young and . . .
ll always be sensitive, she
 thought, and I
t quite see how I
m not young, how am I going to stay perfect? And if I
s name was "Horse" (Buttercup was never long on imagination) and it came when she called it,
 went where she steered it, did what she told it. The farm boy did what she told him too. Actually, he was
 more a young man now, but he had been a farm boy when, orphaned, he had come to work for her father,
 and Buttercup referred to him that way still. "Farm Boy, fetch me this"; "Get me that, Farm Boyquickly,
 lazy thing, trot now or I

 

 That was all he ever answered. 
 Fetch that, Farm Boy. 
 Dry this, Farm Boy.
 
 He lived in a hovel out near the animals and, according to Buttercup's mother, he kept it
 clean. He even read when he had candles.
 
ll leave the lad an acre in my will," Buttercup
You'll spoil him,
s mother always answered.
 "He
 Then, rather than continue the argument
 (they had arguments then too), they would both turn on their daughter.
 
t bathe," her father said.
 "I did, I did" from Buttercup.
 "Not with water," her father continued. "You reek like a stallion."
 "I
 Buttercup explained.
 
 her mother joined in. 
t like their girls to smell of stables."
 "Oh, the boys!" Buttercup fairly exploded. "I do not care about 
 Horse loves me and that is
 quite sufficient, thank you."
 She said that speech loud, and she said it often.
 But, like it or not, things were beginning to happen.
 Shortly before her sixteenth birthday, Buttercup realized that it had now been more than a month since
 any girl in the village had spoken to her. She had never much been close to girls, so the change was
 nothing sharp, but at least before there were head nods exchanged when she rode through the village or
 along the cart tracks. But now, for no reason, there was nothing. A quick glance away as she approached,
 that was all. Buttercup cornered Cornelia one morning at the blacksmith
I
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (22 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:28:59 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 should think, after what you've done, you'd have the courtesy not to pretend to ask
And what have I done?
What? What?  . . . You've stolen them.
them
Can I brush your horse, Buttercup?
Thank you,
 but the farm boy does that.
Can I go riding with you, Buttercup?
Thank you, but I really do enjoy
 myself alone.
You think you're too good for anybody, don't you, Buttercup?
No; no I don't. I just like
 riding by myself, that's all.
Do you think it's going to rain, Buttercup?
I don't think so; the
 sky is blue.
Well, it might rain.
Yes, I suppose it might.
You think you're too good for anybody,
 don't you, Buttercup?
No, I just don't think it's going to rain, that's all.
As you wish
s only confidant. His last name was Rugen, but no one needed to use
 ithe was the only Count in the country, the title having been bestowed by the Prince as a birthday present
 some years before, the happening taking place naturally, at one of the Countess
t been for ladies like the Countess, there would never have been a need for its invention.)
 In sum, the Rugens were Couple of the Week in Florin, and had been for many years. . . .
 This is me. All abridging remarks and other comments will be in red so you
d never read this book, that
How can it be before
 Europe but after Paris?
How is it possible this happens before glamour when glamour is an ancient
 concept? See "glamer" in the Oxford English Dictionary.
t understand anything.
 Hellllppppp!!!
t help her.
 Either Morgenstern meant them seriously or he didn
t. But he never said which were the seriously ones. Or maybe it was the author
this isn
 That
t read them.
 "Quickquickcome" Buttercup
Why?
Look
You look; you know how.
s parents did not have exactly what you might call a happy
 marriage. All they ever dreamed of was leaving each other.
 Buttercup
Ahhhh,
Ahhhh.
s mother glanced up briefly from her cooking.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (24 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:28:59 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 "Such riches," Buttercup
Glorious.
s mother hesitated, then put her stew spoon down. (This was after stew, but so is everything.
 When the first man first clambered from the slime and made his first home on land, what he had for
 supper that first night was stew.)
 "The heart swells at the magnificence," Buttercup
What exactly is it, dumpling?
s mother wanted to know.
 "You look; you know how" was all he replied. (This was their thirty-third spat of the daythis was long
 after spatsand he was behind, thirteen to twenty, but he had made up a lot of distance since lunch, when
 it was seventeen to two against him.)
 "Donkey," the mother said, and came over to the window. A moment later she was going "Ahhh" right
 along with him.
 They stood there, the two of them, tiny and awed.
 From setting the dinner table, Buttercup watched them.
 "They must be going to meet Prince Humperdinck someplace," Buttercup
Hunting. That's what the Prince does.
How lucky we are to have seen them pass by,
s mother said, and she took her husband
Now I can die.
Don't.
s father was a tiny mutt of a man
 who had always dreamed of living like the Count. He had once been two miles from where the Count and
 Prince had been hunting, and until this moment that had been the high point of his life. He was a terrible
 farmer, and not much of a husband either. There wasn
s mother was a gnarled shrimp of a woman, thorny and worrying, who had always dreamed of
 somehow just once being popular, like the Countess was said to be. She was a terrible cook, an even
 more limited housekeeper. How Buttercup slid from her womb was, of course, beyond her. But she had
 been there when it happened; that was enough for her.
 Buttercup herself, standing half a head over her parents, still holding the dinner dishes, still smelling of
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (25 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:28:59 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Horse, only wished that the great procession wasn
s
 clothes really were all that lovely.
 As if in answer to her request, the procession turned and began entering the farm.
 "Here?" Buttercup
My God, why?
s mother whirled on him. "Did you forget to pay your taxes?" (This was after taxes. But
 everything is after taxes. Taxes were here even before stew.)
 "Even if I did, they wouldn
 and he gestured toward the front of his farm,
 where now the Count and Countess and all their pages and soldiers and servants and courtiers and
 champions and carriages were coming closer and closer. 
 he
 said.
 
 Buttercup's mother told him.
 

 

 
ll both go."
 They both went. Trembling . . .
 "Cows," the Count said, when they reached his golden carriage. "I would like to talk about your cows."
 He spoke from inside, his dark face darkened by shadow.
 "My cows?" Buttercup
Yes. You see, I'm thinking of starting a little dairy of my own, and since your cows are known
 throughout the land as being Florin's finest, I thought I might pry your secrets from you.
My cows,
s father managed to repeat, hoping he was not going mad. Because the truth was,
 and he knew it well, he had terrible cows. For years, nothing but complaints from the people in the
 village. If anyone else had had milk to sell, he would have been out of business in a minute. Now
 granted, things had improved since the farm boy had come to slave for himno question, the farm boy had
 certain skills, and the complaints were quite nonexistent nowbut that didn
t argue with the Count. Buttercup
What would you say
 my secret is, my dear?
Oh, there are so many,
You two are childless, are you?
No, sir,
Then let me see her,
perhaps she will be quicker with her answers than her
 parents.
Buttercup,
Come out please.
How did you know we had a daughter?
s mother wondered.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (26 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:28:59 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 "A guess. I assumed it had to be one or the other. Some days I
 He simply stopped talking
 then.
 Because Buttercup moved into view, hurrying from the house to her parents.
 The Count left the carriage. Gracefully, he moved to the ground and stood very still. He was a big man,
 with black hair and black eyes and great shoulders and a black cape and gloves.
 
 Buttercup's mother whispered.
 Buttercup did her best.
 And the Count could not stop looking at her.
 Understand now, she was barely rated in the top twenty; her hair was uncombed, unclean; her age was
 just seventeen, so there was still, in occasional places, the remains of baby fat. Nothing had been done to
 the child. Nothing was really there but potential.
 But the Count still could not rip his eyes away.
 
 greatness, is that not correct, sir?"
 Buttercup
s mother noted a certain tension in the air.
 "Ask the farm boy; he tends them," Buttercup said.
 "And is that the farm boy?" came a new voice from inside the carriage. Then the Countess
s father glanced back toward the lone figure peering around the corner of the house. "It is."
 "Bring him to me."
 "He is not dressed properly for such an occasion," Buttercup
I have seen bare chests before,
You!
Come here.
here.
Have you a name, farm boy?
Westley, Countess.
Well, Westley, perhaps you can help us with our problem.
We are all of us here passionately interested in the subject of cows. We are practically
 reaching the point of frenzy, such is our curiosity. Why, do you suppose, Westley, that the cows of this
 particular farm are the finest in all Florin. What do you do to them?
I just feed them, Countess.
Well then, there it is, the mystery is solved, the secret out; we can all rest. Clearly, the magic is in
 Westley's feeding. Show me how you do it, would you, Westley?
Feed the cows for you, Countess?
Bright lad.
When?
Now will be soon enough,
Lead me, Westley.
It's behind the house, madam; it's terribly muddy
 back there. Your gown will be ruined.
I wear them only once, Westley, and I burn to see you in action.
I'll help you,
Perhaps I'd best see just how he does it,
Strange things are happening,
s parents said, and off they went too, bringing up the rear of
 the cow-feeding trip, watching the Count, who was watching their daughter, who was watching the
 Countess.
 Who was watching Westley.
 "I couldn
 Buttercup's father said. 
 This was
 after dinner now, and the family was alone again.
 
s the same
 kind of thing." Buttercup
Here,
Westley's waiting by the back door; take him his dinner.
Take it,
I didn't excuse you, Farm Boy,
I don't like what
 you're doing with Horse. What you're not doing with Horse is more to the point. I want him cleaned.
 Tonight. I want his hoofs varnished. Tonight. I want his tail plaited and his ears massaged. This very
 evening. I want his stables spotless. Now. I want him glistening, and if it takes you all night, it takes you
 all night.
As you wish.
I thought Horse had been looking very well, actually,
You yourself said so yesterday,
I must be overtired,
The excitement and all.
Rest, then,
Terrible things can happen when you're overtired. I was overtired
 the night your father proposed.
t be tan? And he
 wasn
d ever opened his mouth, they would have realized that was all he
 had, just good teeth; he was, after all, exceptionally stupid.
 It was really very strange that a woman as beautiful and slender and willowy and graceful, a creature as
 perfectly packaged, as supremely dressed as the Countess should be hung up on teeth that way. Buttercup
 shrugged. People were surprisingly complicated. But now she had it all diagnosed, deduced, clear. She
 closed her eyes and snuggled down and got all nice and comfortable, and people don
Oh,
Oh, oh dear.
s eyes.
 Buttercup jumped out of bed and began to pace her room. How could he? Oh, it was all right if he looked
 at her, but he wasn
She's so old,
s cactus outshone his own. (Originally, jealousy pertained
 solely to plants, other people
s case rated a close fourth on the
 all-time list.
 It was a very long and very green night.
 She was outside his hovel before dawn. Inside, she could hear him already awake. She knocked. He
 appeared, stood in the doorway. Behind him she could see a tiny candle, open books. He waited. She
 looked at him. Then she looked away.
 He was too beautiful.
 "I love you," Buttercup said. "I know this must come as something of a surprise, since all I
t matter." Buttercup still could not look at him. The sun
 was rising behind her now; she could feel the heat on her back, and it gave her courage. "I love you so
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (30 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:28:59 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 much more now than twenty minutes ago that there cannot be comparison. I love you so much more now
 than when you opened your hovel door, there cannot be comparison. There is no room in my body for
 anything but you. My arms love you, my ears adore you, my knees shake with blind affection. My mind
 begs you to ask it something so it can obey. Do you want me to follow you for the rest of your days? I
 will do that. Do you want me to crawl? I will crawl. I will be quiet for you or sing for you, or if you are
 hungry, let me bring you food, or if you have thirst and nothing will quench it but Arabian wine, I will go
 to Araby, even though it is across the world, and bring a bottle back for your lunch. Anything there is
 that I can do for you, I will do for you; anything there is that I cannot do, I will learn to do. I know I
 cannot compete with the Countess in skills or wisdom or appeal, and I saw the way she looked at you.
 And I saw the way you looked at her. But remember, please, that she is old and has other interests, while
 I am seventeen and for me there is only you. Dearest WestleyI
 And with that, she dared the bravest thing she'd ever
 done: she looked right into his eyes.
 He closed the door in her face.
 Without a word.
 Without a word.
 Buttercup ran. She whirled and burst away and the tears came bitterly; she could not see, she stumbled,
 she slammed into a tree trunk, fell, rose, ran on; her shoulder throbbed from where the tree trunk hit her,
 and the pain was strong, but not enough to ease her shattered heart. Back to her room she fled, back to
 her pillow. Safe behind the locked door, she drenched the world with tears.
 Not even one word. He hadn't had the decency for that. 
 he could have said. Would it have ruined
 him to say 
? 
 he could have said.
 Why couldn't he at least have said something?
 Buttercup thought very hard about that for a moment. And suddenly she had the answer: he didn't talk
 because the minute he opened his mouth, that was it. Sure he was handsome, but dumb? The minute he
 had exercised his tongue, it would have all been over.
 

 That's what he would have said. That was the kind of thing Westley came out with when he was feeling
 really sharp. 

 Buttercup dried her tears and began to smile. She took a deep breath, heaved a sigh. It was all part of
 growing up. You got these little quick passions, you blinked, and they were gone. You forgave faults,
 found perfection, fell madly; then the next day the sun came up and it was over. Chalk it up to
 experience, old girl, and get on with the morning. Buttercup stood, made her bed, changed her clothes,
 combed her hair, smiled, and burst out again in a fit of weeping. Because there was a limit to just how
 much you could lie to yourself.
 Westley wasn't stupid.
 Oh, she could pretend he was. She could laugh about his difficulties with the language. She could chide
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (31 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:28:59 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 herself for her silly infatuation with a dullard. The truth was simply this: he had a head on his shoulders.
 With a brain inside every bit as good as his teeth. There was a reason he hadn't spoken and it had nothing
 to do with gray cells working. He hadn't spoken because, really, there was nothing for him to say.
 He didn't love her back and that was that.
 The tears that kept Buttercup company the remainder of the day were not at all like those that had
 blinded her into the tree trunk. Those were noisy and hot; they pulsed. These were silent and steady and
 all they did was remind her that she wasn't good enough. She was seventeen, and every male she'd ever
 known had crumbled at her feet and it meant nothing. The one time it mattered, she wasn't good enough.
 All she knew really was riding, and how was that to interest a man when that man had been looked at by
 the Countess?
 It was dusk when she heard footsteps outside her door. Then a knock. Buttercup dried her eyes. Another
 knock. 
 Buttercup yawned finally.
 

 Buttercup lounged across the bed. 
 she said. 
s you,
 how droll!" She went to her door, unlocked it, and said, in her fanciest tone, "I
ve been feeling just ever so slummy about the little joke I played on you this morning. Of
 course you knew I wasn
d done my little jest a bit too
 convincingly and, poor dear thing, you might have thought I meant what I said when of course we both
 know the total impossibility of that ever happening."
 "I

 Buttercup's heart bucked, but she still held to fancy. 
re going to sleep, you mean, and you
s tease; I certainly appreciate your thoughtfulness and"
 He cut her off. "I

 
 The floor began to ripple. She held to the doorframe. 

 

 

 

 
t I? I could kill my tongue." She shook her head and shook her head. "Well,
 it
ve made your decision. Just remember this: I won
s done with
 you, I don

 He just looked at her.
 Buttercup hurried on. 
re beautiful and perfect, it
t get tired of you, well you
re too poor."
 "I
 (This was just after America but long after fortunes.) 
m going to take advantage of it.
 I
ve taught myself not to need sleep. A few hours only. I
ll take another ten-hour-a-day job and I
ll buy a farm and build a house and
 make a bed big enough for two."
 "You
s going to be happy in some run-down farmhouse in America. Not
 with what she spends on clothes."
 "Stop talking about the Countess! As a special favor. Before you drive me maaaaaaaad."
 Buttercup looked at him.
 "Don
s going on?"
 Buttercup shook her head.
 Westley shook his too. "You never have been the brightest, I guess."
 "Do you love me, Westley? Is that it?"
 He couldn
Do I love you? My God, if your love were a grain of sand, mine would be a
 universe of beaches. If your love were
I don't understand that first one yet,
Let me get this straight. Are you saying my love is the size of a grain of sand and yours is this other
 thing? Images just confuse me sois this universal business of yours bigger than my sand? Help me,
 Westley. I have the feeling we're on the verge of something just terribly important.
I have stayed these years in my hovel because of you. I have taught myself languages because of you. I
 have made my body strong because I thought you might be pleased by a strong body. I have lived my life
 with only the prayer that some sudden dawn you might glance in my direction. I have not known a
 moment in years when the sight of you did not send my heart careening against my rib cage. I have not
 known a night when your visage did not accompany me to sleep. There has not been a morning when you
 did not flutter behind my waking eyelids. . . . Is any of this getting through to you, Buttercup, or do you
 want me to go on for a while?
Never stop.
There has not been
If you're teasing me, Westley, I'm just going to kill you.
How can you even dream I might be teasing?
Well, you haven't once said you loved me.
That's all you need? Easy. I love you. Okay? Want it louder? I love you. Spell it out, should I? I
 ell-oh-vee-ee why-oh-you. Want it backward? You love I.
You are teasing now; aren't you?
A little maybe; I've been saying it so long to you, you just wouldn't listen. Every time you said 'Farm
 Boy do this' you thought I was answering 'As you wish' but that's only because you were hearing wrong.
 'I love you' was what it was, but you never heard, and you never heard.
I hear you now, and I promise you this: I will never love anyone else. Only Westley. Until I die.
I'll send for you soon. Believe me.
Would my Westley ever lie?
I'm late. I must go. I hate it but I must. The ship sails soon and London is far.
I understand.
Good-by.
Good-by,
Without one kiss?
s arms.
 There have been five great kisses since 1642 B.C., when Saul and Delilah Korn
s departure, Buttercup thought she was entitled to do nothing more than
 sit around moping and feeling sorry for herself. After all, the love of her life had fled, life had no
 meaning, how could you face the future, et cetera, et cetera.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (34 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:00 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 But after about two seconds of that she realized that Westley was out in the world now, getting nearer
 and nearer to London, and what if a beautiful city girl caught his fancy while she was just back here
 moldering? Or, worse, what if he got to America and worked his jobs and built his farm and made their
 bed and sent for her and when she got there he would look at her and say, "I
re a slobby-looking creature, I

 Buttercup ran to her bedroom mirror. 
 she said, 
 and she
 hurried downstairs to where her parents were squabbling. (Sixteen to thirteen, and not past breakfast yet.)
 
 she interrupted. 

 
 her father said.
 
re at it," her mother said.
 "Unearth the territory behind your ears."
 "Neglect not your knees."
 "That will do nicely for starters," Buttercup said. She shook her head. "Gracious, but it isn
 Undaunted, she set to work.
 Every morning she awoke, if possible by dawn, and got the farm chores finished immediately. There was
 much to be done now, with Westley gone, and more than that, ever since the Count had visited, everyone
 in the area had increased his milk order. So there was no time for self-improvement until well into the
 afternoon.
 But then she really set to work. First a good cold bath. Then, while her hair was drying, she would slave
 after fixing her figure faults (one of her elbows was just too bony, the opposite wrist not bony enough).
 And exercise what remained of her baby fat (little left now; she was nearly eighteen). And brush and
 brush her hair.
 Her hair was the color of autumn, and it had never been cut, so a thousand strokes took time, but she
 didn't mind, because Westley had never seen it clean like this and wouldn't he be surprised when she
 stepped off the boat in America. Her skin was the color of wintry cream, and she scrubbed her every inch
 well past glistening, and that wasn't much fun really, but wouldn't Westley be pleased with how clean she
 was as she stepped off the boat in America.
 And very quickly now, her potential began to be realized. From twentieth, she jumped within two weeks
 to fifteenth, an unheard-of change in such a time. But three weeks after that she was already ninth and
 moving. The competition was tremendous now, but the day after she was ninth a three-page letter arrived
 from Westley in London and just reading it over put her up to eighth. That was really what was doing it
 for her more than anything her love for Westley would not stop growing, and people were dazzled when
 she delivered milk in the morning. Some people were only able to gape at her, but many talked and those
 that did found her warmer and gentler than she had ever been before. Even the village girls would nod
 and smile now, and some of them would ask after Westley, which was a mistake unless you happened to
 have a lot of spare time, because when someone asked Buttercup how Westley waswell, she told them.
 He was supreme as usual; he was spectacular; he was singularly fabulous. Oh, she could go on for hours.
 Sometimes it got a little tough for the listeners to maintain strict attention, but they did their best, since
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (35 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:00 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Buttercup loved him so completely.
 Which was why Westley's death hit her the way it did.
 He had written to her just before he sailed for America. The Queen's Pride was his ship, and he loved
 her. (That was the way his sentences always went: It is raining today and I love you. My cold is better
 and I love you. Say hello to Horse and I love you. Like that.)
 Then there were no letters, but that was natural; he was at sea. Then she heard. She came home from
 delivering the milk and her parents were wooden. 
 her father whispered.
 Her mother whispered, 

 
 from Buttercup.
 
 said her father.
 Buttercup thought she'd better sit down.
 Quiet in the room.
 
s been taken prisoner then?" Buttercup managed.
 Her mother made a "no."
 "It was Roberts," her father said. "The Dread Pirate Roberts."
 "Oh," Buttercup said. "The one who never leaves survivors."
 "Yes," her father said.
 Quiet in the room.
 Suddenly Buttercup was talking very fast: "Was he stabbed? . . . Did he drown? . . . Did they cut his
 throat asleep? . . . Did they wake him, do you suppose? . . . Perhaps they whipped him dead. . . ." She
 stood up then. "I
 She shook her head. 
 With that she hurried to her room.
 She stayed there many days. At first her parents tried to lure her, but she would not have it. They took to
 leaving food outside her room, and she took bits and shreds, enough to stay alive. There was never noise
 inside, no wailing, no bitter sounds.
 And when she at last came out, her eyes were dry. Her parents stared up from their silent breakfast at her.
 They both started to rise but she put a hand out, stopped them. 
 and she set
 about getting some food. They watched her closely.
 In point of fact, she had never looked as well. She had entered her room as just an impossibly lovely girl.
 The woman who emerged was a trifle thinner, a great deal wiser, an ocean sadder. This one understood
 the nature of pain, and beneath the glory of her features, there was character, and a sure knowledge of
 suffering.
 She was eighteen. She was the most beautiful woman in a hundred years. She didn't seem to care.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (36 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:00 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 
re all right?" her mother asked.
 Buttercup sipped her cocoa. "Fine," she said.
 "You
 her father wondered.
 
 Buttercup replied. There was a very long pause. 

 She never did.
 Two
 THE GROOM
 This is my first major excision. Chapter One, The Bride, is almost in its entirety about the bride. Chapter
 Two, The Groom, only picks up Prince Humperdinck in the last few pages.
 This chapter is where my son Jason stopped reading, and there is simply no way of blaming him. For
 what Morgenstern has done is open this chapter with sixty-six pages of Florinese history. More
 accurately, it is the history of the Florinese crown.
 Dreary? Not to be believed.
 Why would a master of narrative stop his narrative dead before it has much chance to begin generating?
 No known answer. All I can guess is that for Morgenstern, the real narrative was not Buttercup and the
 remarkable things she endures, but, rather, the history of the monarchy and other such stuff. When this
 version comes out, I expect every Florinese scholar alive to slaughter me. (Columbia University has not
 only the leading Florinese experts in America, but also direct ties to the New York Times Book Review. I
 can't help that, and I only hope they understand my intentions here are in no way meant to be destructive
 of Morgenstern's vision.)
 Prince Humperdinck was shaped like a barrel. His chest was a great barrel chest, his thighs mighty barrel
 thighs. He was not tall but he weighed close to 250 pounds, brick hard. He walked like a crab, side to
 side, and probably if he had wanted to be a ballet dancer, he would have been doomed to a miserable life
 of endless frustration. But he didn't want to be a ballet dancer. He wasn't in that much of a hurry to be
 king either. Even war, at which he excelled, took second place in his affections. Everything took second
 place in his affections.
 Hunting was his love.
 He made it a practice never to let a day go by without killing something. It didn't much matter what.
 When he first grew dedicated, he killed only big things: elephants or pythons. But then, as his skills
 increased, he began to enjoy the suffering of little beasts too. He could happily spend an afternoon
 tracking a flying squirrel across forests or a rainbow trout down rivers. Once he was determined, once he
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (37 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:00 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 had focused on an object, the Prince was relentless. He never tired, never wavered, neither ate nor slept.
 It was death chess and he was international grand master.
 In the beginning, he traversed the world for opposition. But travel consumed time, ships and horses being
 what they were, and the time away from Florin was worrying. There always had to be a male heir to the
 throne, and as long as his father was alive, there was no problem. But someday his father would die and
 then the Prince would be the king and he would have to select a queen to supply an heir for the day of his
 own death.
 So to avoid the problem of absence, Prince Humperdinck built the Zoo of Death. He designed it himself
 with Count Rugen's help, and he sent his hirelings across the world to stock it for him. It was kept
 brimming with things that he could hunt, and it really wasn't like any other animal sanctuary anywhere.
 In the first place, there were never any visitors. Only the albino keeper, to make sure the beasts were
 properly fed, and that there was never any sickness or weakness inside.
 The other thing about the Zoo was that it was underground. The Prince picked the spot himself, in the
 quietest, remotest corner of the castle grounds. And he decreed there were to be five levels, all with the
 proper needs for his individual enemies. On the first level, he put enemies of speed: wild dogs, cheetahs,
 hummingbirds. On the second level belonged the enemies of strength: anacondas and rhinos and
 crocodiles of over twenty feet. The third level was for poisoners: spitting cobras, jumping spiders, death
 bats galore. The fourth level was the kingdom of the most dangerous, the enemies of fear: the shrieking
 tarantula (the only spider capable of sound), the blood eagle (the only bird that thrived on human flesh),
 plus, in its own black pool, the sucking squid. Even the albino shivered during feeding time on the fourth
 level.
 The fifth level was empty.
 The Prince constructed it in the hopes of someday finding something worthy, something as dangerous
 and fierce and powerful as he was.
 Unlikely. Still, he was an eternal optimist, so he kept the great cage of the fifth level always in readiness.
 And there was really more than enough that was lethal on the other four levels to keep a man happy. The
 Prince would sometimes choose his prey by luckhe had a great wheel with a spinner and on the outside
 of the wheel was a picture of every animal in the Zoo and he would twirl the spinner at breakfast, and
 wherever it stopped, the albino would ready that breed. Sometimes he would choose by mood: 
 or 
 And whatever he requested, of
 course, was done.
 He was ringing down the curtain on an orangutan when the business of the King's health made its
 ultimate intrusion. It was midafternoon, and the Prince had been grappling with the giant beast since
 morning, and finally, after all these hours, the hairy thing was weakening. Again and again, the monkey
 tried to bite, a sure sign of failure of strength in the arms. The Prince warded off the attempted bites with
 ease, and the ape was heaving at the chest now, desperate for air. The Prince made a crablike step
 sidewise, then another, then darted forward, spun the great beast into his arms, began applying pressure
 to the spine. (This was all taking place in the ape pit, where the Prince had his pleasure with any
 simians.) From up above now, Count Rugen's voice interrupted. 
 the Count said.
 From battle, the Prince replied. 

 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (38 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:00 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 
 asked the Count.
 C
   R
      A
         C
            K
 The orangutan fell like a rag doll. 
 the Prince replied, stepping past the dead beast,
 mounting the ladder out of the pit.
 
 the Count said. 

 

 

 
 said the Prince. 

 Three
 THE COURTSHIP
 Four of them met in the great council room of the castle. Prince Humperdinck, his confidant, Count
 Rugen, his father, aging King Lotharon, and Queen Bella, his evil stepmother.
 Queen Bella was shaped like a gumdrop. And colored like a raspberry. She was easily the most beloved
 person in the kingdom, and had been married to the King long before he began mumbling. Prince
 Humperdinck was but a child then, and since the only stepmothers he knew were the evil ones from
 stories, he always called Bella that or 
 for short.
 
 the Prince began when they were all assembled. 
s pick a bride and get
 it done."
 Aging King Lotharon said, "I
s really getting to be about time for Humperdinck to
 pick a bride." He didn
I've beee mumbbble mumbbble
 Humpmummmble engamumble.
You couldn't be
 righter, dear,
What did he say?
He said whoever we decided on would be getting a thunderously handsome prince for a lifetime
 companion.
Tell him he's looking quite well himself,
We've only just changed miracle men,
That accounts for the improvement.
You mean you fired Miracle Max?
I thought he was the only one left.
No, we found another one up in the mountains and he's quite extraordinary. Old, of course, but then,
 who wants a young miracle man?
Tell him I've changed miracle men,
Tell mumble mirumble
 mumble.
What did he say?
He said a man of your importance couldn't marry just any princess.
True, true,
I suppose that means Noreena.
That would certainly be a perfect match politically,
I wonder if she hunts, though,
I don't care so much about personality, just so
 they're good with a knife.
I saw her several years ago,
She seemed lovely, though hardly muscular. I would
 describe her more as a knitter than a doer. But again, lovely.
Skin?
Marbleish,
Lips?
Number or color?
Color, E. S.
Roseish. Cheeks the same. Eyes largeish, one blue, one green.
Hmmm,
And form?
Hourglassish. Always clothed divineishly. And, of course, famous throughout Guilder for the largest hat
 collection in the world.
Well, let's bring her over here for some state occasion and have a look at her,
Isn't there a princess in Guilder that would be about the right age?
Mum-cess Guilble, abumble mumble?
Are you never wrong?
What did he say?
That I should leave this very day with an invitation,
s what happens for the next fifty-six
 and a half pages of The Princess Bride: packing. (I include unpacking scenes in the same category.)
 What happens is just this: Queen Bella packs most of her wardrobe (11 pages) and travels to Guilder (2
 pages). In Guilder she unpacks (5 pages), then tenders the invitation to Princess Noreena (1 page).
 Princess Noreena accepts (1 page). Then Princess Noreena packs all her clothes and hats (23 pages) and,
 together, the Princess and the Queen travel back to Florin for the annual celebration of the founding of
 Florin City (1 page). They reach King Lotharon
ve just seen her pack one and a half pages before
 (12 pages).
 It
s point, apparently, being simply to show that although Florin considered itself vastly more
 civilized than Guilder, Guilder was, in fact, the far more sophisticated country, as indicated by the
 superiority in number and quality of the ladies
m not about to argue with a full professor, but if
 you ever have a really unbreakable case of insomnia, do yourself a favor and start reading Chapter Three
 of the uncut version.
 Anyway, things pick up a bit once the Prince and Princess meet and spend the day. Noreena did have, as
 advertised, marbleish skin, roseish lips and cheeks, largeish eyes, one blue, one green, hourglassish form,
 and easily the most extraordinary collection of hats ever assembled. Wide brimmed and narrow, some
 tall, some not, some fancy, some colorful, some plaid, some plain. She doted on changing hats at every
 opportunity. When she met the Prince, she was wearing one hat, when he asked her for a stroll, she
 excused herself, shortly to return wearing another, equally flattering. Things went on like this throughout
 the day, but it seems to me to be a bit too much court etiquette for modern readers, so it
s castle. Ordinarily, they would all have supped in the
 dining room, but, for an event of this importance, that place was simply too small. So tables were placed
 end to end along the center of the Great Hall, an enormous drafty spot that was given to being chilly even
 in the summertime. There were many doors and giant entrance ways, and the wind gusts sometimes
 reached gale force.
 This night was more typical than less; the winds whistled constantly and the candles constantly needed
 relighting, and some of the more daringly dressed ladies shivered. But Prince Humperdinck didn
t, you didn
s Door, a huge hinged thing that only he
 was allowed to use. It took several servants in excellent condition to work it. It should be reported that
 the King
wester, depending on where you
 were seated in the room when it struck, but all hands agree on one thing: at 8:23 and twenty-five seconds,
 it was pretty gusty in the Great Hall.
 Most of the candles lost their flames and toppled, which was only important because a few of them fell,
 still burning, into the small kerosene cups that were placed here and there across the banquet table so that
 the essence of brandied pig could be properly flaming when served. Servants rushed in from all over to
 put out the flames, and they did a good enough job, considering that everything in the room was flying
 this way, that way, fans and scarves and hats.
 Particularly the hat of Princess Noreena.
 It flew off to the wall behind her, where she quickly retrieved it and put it properly on. That was at 8:23
 and fifty seconds. It was too late.
 At 8:23:55 Prince Humperdinck rose roaring, the veins in his thick neck etched like hemp. There were
 still flames in some places, and their redness reddened his already blood-filled face. He looked, as he
 stood there, like a barrel on fire. He then said to Princess Noreena of Guilder the five words that brought
 the nations to the brink.
 "Madam, feel free to flee!"
 And with that he stormed from the Great Hall. The time was then 8:24.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (42 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:01 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Prince Humperdinck made his angry way to the balcony above the Great Hall and stared down at the
 chaos. The fires were still in places flaming red, guests were pouring out through the doors and Princess
 Noreena, hatted and faint, was being carried by her servants far from view.
 Queen Bella finally caught up with the Prince, who stormed along the balcony clearly not yet in control.
 "I do wish you hadn
 Queen Bella said.
 The Prince whirled on her. 
m not marrying any bald princess, and that

 
 Queen Bella explained. 

 
 cried the Prince. 

 
 the Queen said, addressing herself half to the Prince,
 half to Count Rugen, who now joined them.
 
ll conquer it sometime. I
 He
 approached the Queen. 
ve got a bald wife, and I can do
 without that, thank you. You

 

 
s all."
 "That Noreena has no hair," King Lotharon said, puffing up to the others. "Nor-umble mumble humble."
 "Thank you for pointing that out, dear," said Queen Bella.
 "I don
 said the King. 

 Then Count Rugen stepped forward. 
s a
 commoner?"
 "The commoner the better," Prince Humperdinck replied, pacing again.
 "What if she can
 the Count went on.
 
t care if she can
 the Prince said. Suddenly he stopped and faced them all. 
ll tell you what
 I want," he began then. "I want someone who is so beautiful that when you see her you say, 
 Search the country, search the world,
 just find her!"
 Count Rugen could only smile. "She is already found," he said.
 It was dawn when the two horsemen reined in at the hilltop. Count Rugen rode a splendid black horse,
 large, perfect, powerful. The Prince rode one of his whites. It made Rugen
She delivers milk in the mornings,
And she is truly-without-question-no-possibility-of-error beautiful?
She was something of a mess when I saw her,
But the potential was
 overwhelming.
A milkmaid.
I don't know that I could wed one of
 them even under the best of conditions. People might snicker that she was the best I could do.
True,
If you prefer, we can ride back to Florin City without waiting.
We've come this far,
We might as well wai
I'll take
 her,
No one will snicker, I think,
I must court her now,
Leave us alone for a minute.
I am your Prince and you will marry me,
I am your servant and I refuse.
I am your Prince and you cannot refuse.
I am your loyal servant and I just did.
Refusal means death.
Kill me then.
I am your Prince and I'm not that badhow could you rather be dead than married to me?
Because,
marriage involves love, and that is not a pastime at which I excel. I tried
 once, and it went badly, and I am sworn never to love another.
Love?
Who mentioned love? Not me, I can tell you. Look: there must
 always be a male heir to the throne of Florin. That's me. Once my father dies, there won't be an heir, just
 a king. That's me again. When that happens, I'll marry and have children until there is a son. So you can
 either marry me and be the richest and most powerful woman in a thousand miles and give turkeys away
 at Christmas and provide me a son. or you can die in terrible pain in the very near future. Make up your
 own mind.
I'll never love you.
I wouldn't want it if I had it.
Then by all means let us marry.
t even know this chapter existed until I began the 
 version. All my father used to say at
 this point was, What with one thing and another, three years passed,
d explain how the day
 came when Buttercup was officially introduced to the world as the coming queen, and how the Great
 Square of Florin City was filled as never before, awaiting her introduction, and by then, he was into the
 terrific business dealing with the kidnapping.
 Would you believe that in the original Morgenstern this is the longest single chapter in the book?
 Fifteen pages about how Humperdinck can
s holdings.
 Then the miracle man began improving King Lotharon, and eighteen pages are used up in describing the
 cures. (Morgenstern hated doctors, and was always bitter when they outlawed miracle men from working
 in Florin proper.)
 And seventy-twocount 
What with one thing and
 another, three years passed.
s bride-to-be, Princess Buttercup of Hammersmith. The crowd had begun forming some
 forty hours earlier, but up to twenty-four hours before, there were still fewer than one thousand. But then,
 as the moment of introduction grew nearer, from across the country the people came. None had ever seen
 the Princess, but rumors of her beauty were continual and each was less possible than the one before.
 At noontime, Prince Humperdinck appeared at the balcony of his father
My people, my beloveds, from whom we draw our strength, today is a day of greeting. As you must
 have heard, my honored father's health is not what it once was. He is, of course, ninety-seven, so who can
 ask more. As you also know, Florin needs a male heir.
In three months, our country celebrates its five hundredth anniversary. To celebrate that celebration, I
 shall, on that sundown, take for my wife the Princess Buttercup of Hammersmith. You do not know her
 yet. But you will meet her now,
That's enough, mustn't risk
 overexposure,
They have waited, some of them, so long,
I would like to walk among them.
We do not walk among commoners unless it is unavoidable,
I have known more than a few commoners in my time,
They will not, I think,
 harm me.
t like Humperdinck, she thought. It
s always off someplace or playing in the Zoo of Death.
 To Buttercup
t wrong to marry someone you didn
t right either. If the whole world did it, that
 wouldn
no
no.
t expect too much from life, Buttercup told herself as she rode along. Learn to be satisfied with what
 you have.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (47 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:01 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Dusk was closing in when Buttercup crested the hill. She was perhaps half an hour from the castle, and
 her daily ride was three-quarters done. Suddenly she reined Horse, for standing in the dimness beyond
 was the strangest trio she had ever seen.
 The man in front was dark, Sicilian perhaps, with the gentlest face, almost angelic. He had one leg too
 short, and the makings of a humpback, but he moved forward toward her with surprising speed and
 nimbleness. The other two remained rooted. The second, also dark, probably Spanish, was as erect and
 slender as the blade of steel that was attached to his side. The third man, mustachioed, perhaps a Turk,
 was easily the biggest human being she had ever ever seen.
 "A word?" the Sicilian said, raising his arms. His smile was more angelic than his face.
 Buttercup halted. "Speak."
 "We are but poor circus performers," the Sicilian explained. "It is dark and we are lost. We were told
 there was a village nearby that might enjoy our skills."
 "You were misinformed," Buttercup told him. "There is no one, not for many miles."
 "Then there will be no one to hear you scream," the Sicilian said, and he jumped with frightening agility
 toward her face.
 That was all that Buttercup remembered. Perhaps she did scream, but if she did it was more from terror
 than anything else, because certainly there was no pain. His hands expertly touched places on her neck,
 and unconsciousness came.
 She awoke to the lapping of water.
 She was wrapped in a blanket and the giant Turk was putting her in the bottom of a boat. For a moment
 she was about to talk, but then when they began talking, she thought it better to listen. And after she had
 listened for a moment, it got harder and harder to hear. Because of the terrible pounding of her heart.
 "I think you should kill her now," the Turk said.
 "The less you think, the happier I
 the Sicilian answered.
 There was the sound of ripping cloth.
 
 the Spaniard asked.
 
 the Sicilian replied. 

 
 the Turk began.
 

 
s going on, that
 the Turk mumbled. 
m so stupid because I

 
re so stupid," the Sicilian said, "is because you are so stupid. It has nothing
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (48 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:01 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 to do with your drooling."
 There came the sound of a flapping of sail. "Watch your heads," the Spaniard cautioned, and then the
 boat was moving. "The people of Florin will not take her death well, I shouldn

 
 the Sicilian agreed. 
s a fine line of work to be
 expert in. If we do this perfectly, there will be a continual demand for our services."
 "Well I don
 the Spaniard said. 

 

 
t like killing a girl," the Spaniard said.
 "God does it all the time; if it doesn
t let it worry you."
 Through all this, Buttercup had not moved.
 The Spaniard said, "Let
re taking her away for ransom."
 The Turk agreed. "She
d go all crazy if she knew."
 "She knows already," the Sicilian said. "She

 Buttercup lay under the blanket, not moving. How could he have known that, she wondered.
 
 the Spaniard asked.
 
 the Sicilian said.
 Conceited, Buttercup thought.
 
 the Sicilian said.
 He must be a mind reader, Buttercup thought.
 
 the Sicilian said.
 
 the Spaniard answered from the tiller.
 

 Why does he let me know his plans, Buttercup wondered.
 
 the Spaniard said, and his fingers suddenly were touching
 her temple, her shoulder, her neck, and she was unconscious again. . . .
 Buttercup did not know how long she was out, but they were still in the boat when she blinked, the
 blanket shielding her. And this time, without daring to thinkthe Sicilian would have known it somehow
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (49 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:01 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 she threw the blanket aside and dove deep into Florin Channel.
 She stayed under for as long as she dared and then surfaced, starting to swim across the moonless water
 with every ounce of strength remaining to her. Behind her in the darkness there were cries.
 
 from the Sicilian.
 
 from the Turk.
 
re better than I am" from the Spaniard.
 Buttercup continued to leave them behind her. Her arms ached from effort but she gave them no rest. Her
 legs kicked and her heart pounded.
 "I can hear her kicking," the Sicilian said. "Veer left."
 Buttercup went into her breast stroke, silently swimming away.
 "Where is she?" shrieked the Sicilian.
 "The sharks will get her, don
 cautioned the Spaniard.
 Oh dear, I wish you hadn't mentioned that, thought Buttercup.
 
 the Sicilian called, 
m in
 a boat, Princess, and there isn
re both quite safe, but there is a knife
 in my hand, my lady, and if you don
ll cut my arms and I
ll catch the
 blood in a cup and I
t be beautiful for long."
 Buttercup hesitated, silently treading water. Around her now, although it was surely her imagination, she
 seemed to be hearing the swish of giant tails.
 "Come back and come back now. There will be no other warning."
 Buttercup thought, If I come back, they
s the difference?
 "The difference is"
 There he goes doing that again, thought Buttercup. He really is a mind reader.
 "if you come back now," the Sicilian went on, "I give you my word as a gentleman and assassin that you
 will die totally without pain. I assure you, you will get no such promise from the sharks."
 The fish sounds in the night were closer now.
 Buttercup began to tremble with fear. She was terribly ashamed of herself but there it was. She only
 wished she could see for a minute if there really were sharks and if he really would cut himself.
 The Sicilian winced out loud.
 "He just cut his arm, lady," the Turk called out. "He

 The Sicilian winced again.
 
 the Turk went on. 
s getting full."
 I don
My arm is back to throw,
Call out your location or not, the choice is yours.
m not making a peep, Buttercup decided.
 "Farewell," from the Sicilian.
 There was the splashing sound of liquid landing on liquid.
 Then there came a pause.
 Then the sharks went mad
 
 my father said.
 I looked up at him. 

 

 
s sake,
d think I was a baby or something. What kind of stuff is that?
ll tell you the truth: I was getting a little too involved and I was glad he told me. I
 mean, when you
t think, Well, since the book
re barely into it, obviously, the author
re a youngster; so to any youngsters reading, I
s
 words since they worked to soothe me: 

 Then the sharks went mad. All around her, Buttercup could hear them beeping and screaming and
 thrashing their mighty tails. Nothing can save me, Buttercup realized. I
There she is,
Keep her warm,
Don't catch cold,
s folds.
 "It doesn
 she answered, 
re killing me at dawn."
 "He
 the Turk said, indicating the Sicilian, who was wrapping cloth around his
 cuts. 
ll just hold you."
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (51 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:01 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 "Hold your stupid tongue," the Sicilian commanded.
 The Turk immediately hushed.
 "I don
s so stupid," Buttercup said. "And I don
re so smart either, with all your
 throwing blood in the water. That

 
t it? You
t you?" The Sicilian crossed toward her. "Once women are
 sufficiently frightened, they scream."
 "But I didn
 answered Buttercup somewhat triumphantly.
 The Sicilian struck her.
 
 the Turk said then.
 The tiny humpback looked dead at the giant. 
t think you do."
 "No, sir," the Turk mumbled. "No. But don
t care."
 The Sicilian returned to the other side of the boat. "She would have screamed," he said. "She was about
 to cry out. My plan was ideal as all my plans are ideal. It was the moon
 He scowled unforgivingly at the yellow wedge above them. Then he stared ahead. 

 The Sicilian pointed. 

 And there they were. Rising straight and sheer from the water, a thousand feet into the night. They
 provided the most direct route between Florin and Guilder, but no one ever used them, sailing instead the
 long way, many miles around. Not that the Cliffs were impossible to scale; two men were known to have
 climbed them in the last century alone.
 
 the Sicilian commanded.
 The Spaniard said, 

 Buttercup did not understand. Going up the Cliffs could hardly be done she thought; and no one had ever
 mentioned secret passages through them. Yet here they were, sailing closer and closer to the mighty
 rocks, now surely less than a quarter-mile away.
 For the first time the Sicilian allowed himself a smile. 

 
 the Spaniard asked.
 
 the Sicilian assured him. 

 

 
 the Sicilian reassured him. 

 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (52 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:01 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 
 the Spaniard replied. 
s only that I just happened to look back and something

 They all whirled.
 Something was indeed there. Less than a mile behind them across the moonlight was another sailing
 boat, small, painted what looked like black, with a giant sail that billowed black in the night, and a single
 man at the tiller. A man in black.
 The Spaniard looked at the Sicilian. 

 
 the Sicilian said. 
ve done, and no one in Florin could have gotten here so quickly, he is definitely not,
 however much it may look like it, following us. It is coincidence and nothing more."
 "He
 the Turk said.
 
 the Sicilian said. 
re in, I made many inquiries as
 to what was the fastest ship on all of Florin Channel and everyone agreed it was this one."
 "You
 the Turk agreed, staring back. 
t gaining on us. He
s all."
 "It is the angle we
 said the Sicilian.
 Buttercup could not take her eyes from the great black sail. Surely the three men she was with frightened
 her. But somehow, for reasons she could never begin to explain, the man in black frightened her more.
 
 the Sicilian said then, just a drop of edginess in his voice.
 The Cliffs of Insanity were very close now.
 The Spaniard maneuvered the craft expertly, which was not easy, and the waves were rolling in toward
 the rocks now and the spray was blinding. Buttercup shielded her eyes and put her head straight back,
 staring up into the darkness toward the top, which seemed shrouded and out of reach.
 Then the humpback bounded forward, and as the ship reached the cliff face, he jumped up and suddenly
 there was a rope in his hand.
 Buttercup stared in silent astonishment. The rope, thick and strong, seemed to travel all the way up the
 Cliffs. As she watched, the Sicilian pulled at the rope again and again and it held firm. It was attached to
 something at the topa giant rock, a towering tree, something.
 
 the Sicilian ordered. 
ve got to reach the top and cut the rope off before he can climb up after us."
 "Climb?" Buttercup said. "I would never be able to"
 "Hush!" the Sicilian ordered her. "Get ready!" he ordered the Spaniard. "Sink it," he ordered the Turk.
 And then everyone got busy. The Spaniard took a rope, tied Buttercup
Load me,
s shoulders. Then he tied himself to
 the Turk
s neck.
 "All aboard," the Sicilian said. (This was before trains, but the expression comes originally from
 carpenters loading lumber, and this was well after carpenters.)
 With that the Turk began to climb. It was at least a thousand feet and he was carrying the three, but he
 was not worried. When it came to power, nothing worried him. When it came to reading, he got knots in
 the middle of his stomach, and when it came to writing, he broke out in a cold sweat, and when addition
 was mentioned or, worse, long division, he always changed the subject right away.
 But strength had never been his enemy. He could take the kick of a horse on his chest and not fall
 backward. He could take a hundred-pound flour sack between his legs and scissor it open without
 thinking. He had once held an elephant aloft using only the muscles in his back.
 But his real might lay in his arms. There had never, not in a thousand years, been arms to match Fezzik
s arms would be as fresh tomorrow as
 today.
 And so, even with the Sicilian on his neck and the Princess around his shoulders and the Spaniard at his
 waist, Fezzik did not feel in the least bit put upon. He was actually quite happy, because it was only
 when he was requested to use his might that he felt he wasn
s
 world that billowing black sail had appeared. How? How? The Sicilian flogged his mind to find an
 answer, but he found only failure. In wild frustration he took a deep breath and, in spite of his terrible
 fears, he looked back down toward the dark water.
 The man in black was still there, sailing like lightning toward the Cliffs. He could not have been more
 than a quarter-mile from them now.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (54 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:01 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 "Faster!" the Sicilian commanded.
 "I
 the Turk answered meekly. 

 
 spurred the Sicilian.
 
ll never improve," the Turk answered, but his arms began to move faster than before. "I cannot see too
 well because your feet are locked around my face," he went on, "so could you tell me please if we

 
 said the Spaniard from his position around the giant's waist. 
re doing
 wonderfully, Fezzik."
 "Thank you," said the giant.
 "And he
 added the Spaniard.
 No one had to ask who 
 was.
 Six hundred feet now. The arms continued to pull, over and over. Six hundred and twenty feet. Six
 hundred and fifty. Now faster than ever. Seven hundred.
 
s left his boat behind," the Spaniard said. "He
s starting up after us."
 "I can feel him," Fezzik said. "His body weight on the rope."
 "He
 the Sicilian cried. 

 
 the Spaniard snapped. 
t think it means what you think it does."
 "How fast is he at climbing?" Fezzik said.
 "I
 was the Spaniard's reply.
 The Sicilian gathered his courage again and looked down.
 The man in black seemed almost to be flying. Already he had cut their lead a hundred feet. Perhaps more.
 
 the Sicilian shouted. 

 
m carrying three people," Fezzik explained. "He has only himself and"
 "Excuses are the refuge of cowards," the Sicilian interrupted. He looked down again. The man in black
 had gained another hundred feet. He looked up now. The cliff tops were beginning to come into view.
 Perhaps a hundred and fifty feet more and they were safe.
 Tied hand and foot, sick with fear, Buttercup wasn
t want to go through anything like it again.
 "Fly, Fezzik!" the Sicilian screamed. "A hundred feet to go."
 Fezzik flew. He cleared his mind of everything but ropes and arms and fingers, and his arms pulled and
 his fingers gripped and the rope held taut and
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (55 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:01 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 "He
 the Spaniard said.
 
 the Sicilian said. 
re fifty feet from safety, and once we
 He allowed himself to laugh.
 Forty feet.
 Fezzik pulled.
 Twenty.
 Ten.
 It was over. Fezzik had done it. They had reached the top of the Cliffs, and first the Sicilian jumped off
 and then the Turk removed the Princess, and as the Spaniard untied himself, he looked back over the
 Cliffs.
 The man in black was no more than three hundred feet away.
 
 the Turk said, looking down alongside the Spaniard. 
 He stopped talking then.
 The Sicilian had untied the rope from its knots around an oak. The rope seemed almost alive, the greatest
 of all water serpents heading at last for home. It whipped across the cliff tops, spiraled into the moonlit
 Channel.
 The Sicilian was roaring now, and he kept at it until the Spaniard said, 

 
 The humpback came scurrying to the cliff edge.
 
 the Spaniard said. 
 He pointed down.
 The man in black was hanging in space, clinging to the sheer rock face, seven hundred feet above the
 water.
 The Sicilian watched, fascinated. 
 he said, 
ve made a study of death and dying and
 am a great expert, it might interest you to know that he will be dead long before he hits the water. The
 fall will do it, not the crash."
 The man in black dangled helpless in space, clinging to the Cliffs with both hands.
 "Oh, how rude we
 the Sicilian said then, turning to Buttercup. 
m sure you

 He went to her and brought her, still tied hand and foot, so that she could watch the final pathetic struggle
 of the man in black three hundred feet below.
 Buttercup closed her eyes, turned away.
 
t we be going?" the Spaniard asked. "I thought you were telling us how important time was."
 "It is, it is," the Sicilian nodded. "But I just can
s what the books say."
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (56 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:01 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 "He has very strong arms," Fezzik commented. "To hold on so long."
 "He can
 the Sicilian said. 

 It was at that moment that the man in black began to climb. Not quickly, of course. And not without great
 effort. But still, there was no doubt that he was, in spite of the sheerness of the Cliffs, heading in an
 upward direction.
 
 the Sicilian cried.
 The Spaniard whirled on him.
 and the
 Spaniard pointed down through the night. 

 The man in black was, indeed, rising. Somehow, in some almost miraculous way, his fingers were
 finding holds in the crevices, and he was now perhaps fifteen feet closer to the top, farther from death.
 The Sicilian advanced on the Spaniard now, his wild eyes glittering at the insubordination. 
 he began, 

 
 the Turk wondered.
 The Sicilian shook his head. 
 he said finally. 
 He turned to the Spaniard. 
ll be heading directly for the frontier of
 Guilder. Catch up as quickly as you can once he

 The Spaniard nodded.
 The Sicilian hobbled away.
 The Turk hoisted the Princess, began following the humpback. Just before he lost sight of the Spaniard
 he turned and hollered, 

 
t I always?" The Spaniard waved. "Farewell, Fezzik."
 "Farewell, Inigo," the Turk replied. And then he was gone, and the Spaniard was alone.
 Inigo moved to the cliff edge and knelt with his customary quick grace. Two hundred and fifty feet
 below him now, the man in black continued his painful climb. Inigo lay flat, staring down, trying to
 pierce the moonlight and find the climber
s
 commands, but what could he do? Without the brains of the Sicilian, he, Inigo, would never be able to
 command jobs of this caliber. The Sicilian was a master planner. Inigo was a creature of the moment.
 The Sicilian said "kill him," so why waste sympathy on the man in black. Someday someone would kill
 Inigo, and the world would not stop to mourn.
 He stood now, quickly jumping to his feet, his blade-thin body ready. For action. Only, the man in black
 was still many feet away.
 There was nothing to do but wait for him. Inigo hated waiting. So to make the time more pleasant, he
 pulled from the scabbard his great, his only, love:
 The six-fingered sword.
 How it danced in the moonlight. How glorious and true. Inigo brought it to his lips and with all the fervor
 in his great Spanish heart kissed the metal. . . .
 INIGO
 In the mountains of Central Spain, set high in the hills above Toledo, was the village of Arabella. It was
 very small and the air was always clear. That was all you could say that was good about Arabella: terrific
 airyou could see for miles.
 But there was no work, the dogs overran the streets and there was never enough food. The air, clear
 enough, was also too hot in daylight, freezing at night. As to Inigo
t ask why. There really wasn
Alas, I am
 sorry, I cannot do it
Of course, I'd be delighted, fifty per cent down payment please, the rest before
 delivery, come back in a year, thank you very much.
So, Domingo,
s father
So, Yeste,
I need you,
This very week I have accepted a commission to make a sword for a member of the Italian nobility. It is
 to be jewel encrusted at the handle and the jewels are to spell out the name of his present mistress and
No.
no
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No. More tea, Yeste?
Perhaps another cup, thank you
WHY WON'T YOU?
Why? My fat friend asks me why? He sits there on his world-class ass and has the nerve to ask me why?
 Yeste. Come to me sometime with a challenge. Once, just once, ride up and say, 'Domingo, I need a
 sword for an eighty-year-old man to fight a duel,' and I would embrace you and cry 'Yes!' Because to
 make a sword for an eighty-year-old man to survive a duel, that would be something. Because the sword
 would have to be strong enough to win, yet light enough not to tire his weary arm. I would have to use
 my all to perhaps find an unknown metal, strong but very light, or devise a different formula for a known
 one, mix some bronze with some iron and some air in a way ignored for a thousand years. I would kiss
 your smelly feet for an opportunity like that, fat Yeste. But to make a stupid sword with stupid jewels in
 the form of stupid initials so some stupid Italian can thrill his stupid mistress, no. That, I will not do.
For the last time I ask you. Please.
For the last time I tell you, I am sorry. No.
I gave my word the sword would be made,
I cannot make it. In all the world no one can
 but you, and you say no. Which means I have gone back on a commitment. Which means I have lost my
 honor. Which means that since honor is the only thing in the world I care about, and since I cannot live
 without it, I must die. And since you are my dearest friend, I may as well die now, with you, basking in
 the warmth of your affection.
s wedding day.
 "Good-by, little Inigo," Yeste would say then. "God grant you your quota of smiles."
 It was forbidden for Inigo to interrupt.
 "Good-by, little Domingo," Yeste would say then. "Although I die in your hut, and although it is your
 own stubborn fault that causes my ceasing, in other words, even though you are killing me, don

 He pulled open his coat, brought the knife closer, closer. 
 Yeste
 cried.
 
 Domingo asked.
 
m anticipating, don
 He brought the point to his skin, pushed.
 Domingo grabbed the knife away. 
t stop you," he said. "Inigo, set an extra place for
 supper."
 "I was all set to kill myself, truly."
 "Enough dramatics."
 "What is on the menu for the evening?"
 "The usual gruel."
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (60 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:01 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 "Inigo, go check and see if there

 There was always a feast waiting in the carriage.
 And after the food and the stories would come the departure, and always, before the departure, would
 come the request. 
 Yeste would say. 

 

 

 

 
T YOU?"
 "Because, my friend Yeste, you are very famous and very rich, and so you should be, because you make
 wonderful weapons. But you must also make them for any fool who happens along. I am poor, and no
 one knows me in all the world except you and Inigo, but I do not have to suffer fools."
 "You are an artist," Yeste said.
 "No. Not yet. A craftsman only. But I dream to be an artist. I pray that someday, if I work with enough
 care, if I am very very lucky, I will make a weapon that is a work of art. Call me an artist then, and I will
 answer."
 Yeste entered his carriage. Domingo approached the window, whispered; "I remind you only of this:
 when you get this jeweled initialed sword, claim it as your own. Tell no one of my involvement."
 "Your secret is safe with me."
 Embraces and waves. The carriage would leave. And that was the way of life before the six-fingered
 sword.
 Inigo remembered exactly the moment it began. He was making lunch for themhis father always, from
 the time he was six, let him do the cookingwhen a heavy knocking came on the hut door. "Inside there,"
 a voice boomed. "Be quick about it."
 Inigo
Your servant,
You are a sword maker,
Of distinction. I have heard that this is true.
If only it were,
But I have no great skills. Mostly I do repair work. Perhaps if you
 had a dagger blade that was dulling, I might be able to please you. But anything more is beyond me.
I desire to have made for me the greatest sword since Excalibur.
I hope your wishes are granted,
And now, if you please, our lunch is almost ready and
 
I do not give you permission to move. You stay right exactly where you are or risk my wrath, which, I
 must tell you in advance, is considerable. My temper is murderous. Now, what were you saying about
 your lunch?
I was saying that it will be hours before it is ready; I have nothing to do and would not dream of
 budging.
There are rumors,
that deep in the hills behind Toledo lives a genius. The greatest
 sword maker in all the world.
He visits here sometimesthat must be your mistake. But his name is Yeste and he lives in Madrid.
I will pay five hundred pieces of gold for my desires,
That is more money than all the men in all this village will earn in all their lives,
Truly,
 I would love to accept your offer. But I am not the man you seek.
These rumors lead me to believe that Domingo Montoya would solve my problem.
What is your problem?
I am a great swordsman. But I cannot find a weapon to match my peculiarities, and therefore I am
 deprived of reaching my highest skills. If I had a weapon to match my peculiarities, there would be no
 one in all the world to equal me.
What are these peculiarities you speak of?
You see?
Of course,
the balance of the sword is wrong for you because every balance has
 been conceived of for five. The grip of every handle cramps you, because it has been built for five. For
 an ordinary swordsman it would not matter, but a great swordsman, a master, would have eventual
 discomfort. And the greatest swordsman in the world must always be at ease. The grip of his weapon
 must be as natural as the blink of his eye, and cause him no more thought.
Clearly, you understand the difficulties
 words could never reach him. Inigo had never seen his father so
 frenzied. "The measurements . . . of course . . . each finger and the circumference of the wrist, and the
 distance from the sixth nail to the index pad . . . so many measurements . . . and your preferences . . . Do
 you prefer to slash or cut? If you slash, do you prefer the right-to-left movement or perhaps the
 parallel? . . . When you cut, do you enjoy an upward thrust, and how much power do you wish to come
 from the shoulder, how much from the wrist? . . . And do you wish your point coated so as to enter more
 easily or do you enjoy seeing the opponent

 and on and on he went until the noble dismounted and had to almost take him by the shoulders to quiet
 him.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (62 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:01 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 

 Domingo nodded.
 

 

 

 

 Inigo scurried into the darkest corner of the hut.
 

 

 

 

 The noble took out one piece of gold.
 Domingo put it in a drawer and left it, without even a glance. 
 he commanded.
 

 The nobleman had to smile. 

 
 Domingo said, and with that he set to work.
 Such a year.
 Domingo slept only when he dropped from exhaustion. He ate only when Inigo would force him to. He
 studied, fretted, complained. He never should have taken the job; it was impossible. The next day he
 would be flying: he never should have taken the job; it was too simple to be worth his labors. Joy to
 despair, joy to despair, day to day, hour to hour. Sometimes Inigo would wake to find him weeping:
 
 
 
 
t need sleep.
 Failures don
 
 

 Some nights Inigo would awake to see him dancing. 
 
 
 
 
 
m more wonderful than wonderful, how dare
 you insult me."
 But the next night, more tears. "What is it now, Father?" "The sword, the sword, I cannot make the
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (63 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:01 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 sword." "But last night, Father, you said you had found your mistakes." "I was mistaken; tonight I found
 new ones, worse ones. I am the most wretched of creatures. Say you wouldn
 
 
t really love me; you
 
 
 
re welcome, Father." "I love you back,
 Inigo." "Sleep, Father." "Yes. Sleep."
 A whole year of that. A year of the handle being right but the balance being wrong, of the balance being
 right, but the cutting edge too dull, of the cutting edge sharpened, but that threw the balance off again, of
 the balance returning, but now the point was fat, of the point regaining sharpness, only now the entire
 blade was too short and it all had to go, all had to be thrown out, all had to be done again. Again. Again.
 Domingo
s darkness, it glistened.
 "At last," Domingo whispered. He could not take his eyes from the glory of the sword. "After a lifetime,
 Inigo. Inigo. I am an artist."
 The big-shouldered nobleman did not agree. When he returned to purchase the sword, he merely looked
 at it a moment. "Not worth waiting for," he said.
 Inigo stood in the corner of the hut, watching, holding his breath.
 "You are disappointed?" Domingo could scarcely get the words spoken.
 "I
s trash, you understand," the nobleman went on. "But it
ll give you ten; it

 
 Domingo cried. 
 And he threw open the
 drawer where the one goldpiece had lain untouched the year. 
 He took back the sword and turned away.
 
ll take the sword," the nobleman said. "I didn
t take it. I only said I would pay what it
 was worth."
 Domingo whirled back, eyes bright. "You quibbled. You haggled. Art was involved and you saw only
 money. Beauty was here for the taking and you saw only your fat purse. You have lost nothing; there is
 no more reason for your remaining here. Please go."
 "The sword," the noble said.
 "The sword belongs to my son," Domingo said. "I give it to him now. It is forever his. Good-by."
 "You

 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (64 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:01 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 
re an enemy of art and I pity your ignorance," Domingo said.
 They were the last words he ever uttered.
 The noble killed him then, with no warning; a flash of the nobleman
s heart was
 torn to pieces.
 Inigo screamed. He could not believe it; it had not happened. He screamed again. His father was fine;
 soon they would have tea. He could not stop screaming.
 The village heard. Twenty men were at the door. The nobleman pushed his way through them. "That man
 attacked me. See? He holds a sword. He attacked me and I defended myself. Now move from my way."
 It was lies, of course, and everyone knew it. But he was a noble so what was there to do? They parted,
 and the nobleman mounted his horse.
 "Coward!"
 The nobleman whirled.
 "Pig!"
 Again the crowd parted.
 Inigo stood there, holding the six-fingered sword, repeating his words: "Coward. Pig. Killer."
 "Someone tend the babe before he oversteps himself," the noble said to the crowd.
 Inigo ran forward then, standing in front of the nobleman
s path. He
 raised the six-fingered sword with both his hands and cried, "I, Inigo Montoya, do challenge you,
 coward, pig, killer, ass, fool, to battle."
 "Get him out of my way. Move the infant."
 "The infant is ten and he stays," Inigo said.
 "Enough of your family is dead for one day; be content," said the noble.
 "When you beg me for your breath, then I shall be contented. Now dismount!"
 The nobleman dismounted.
 "Draw your sword."
 The nobleman unsheathed his killing weapon.
 "I dedicate your death to my father," Inigo said. "Begin."
 They began.
 It was no match, of course. Inigo was disarmed in less than a minute. But for the first fifteen seconds or
 so, the noble was uneasy. During those fifteen seconds, strange thoughts crossed his mind. For even at
 the age of ten, Inigo
I'm not going to kill you,
Because you have talent and you're brave. But you're
 also lacking in manners, and that's going to get you in trouble if you're not careful. So I shall help you as
 you go through life, by leaving you with a reminder that bad manners are to be avoided.
s face began to bleed. Two rivers of blood poured from his forehead to his chin, one crossing
 each cheek. Everyone watching knew it then: the boy was scarred for life.
 Inigo would not fall. The world went white behind his eyes but he would not go to ground. The blood
 continued to pour. The nobleman replaced his sword, remounted, rode on.
 It was only then that Inigo allowed the darkness to claim him.
 He awoke to Yeste
I was beaten,
I failed him.
Sleep.
s carriage to
 Madrid, where he lived in Yeste
s commands. After a month, the bandages were
 removed, but the scars were still deep red. Eventually, they softened some, but they always remained the
 chief features of Inigo
I must learn
t want to work too hard any more, he was getting old, but when he doubled his prices, when the
 news spread from duke to prince to king, they only wanted him the more desperately. Now the wait was
 two years for a sword and the line-up of royalty was unending and Yeste was growing tired, so he
 doubled his prices again, and when that didn
t notice. All they wanted was his weapons and they fell over each other with jewels
 for him.
 Yeste grew very rich.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (66 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:01 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 And very heavy.
 Every part of his body sagged. He had the only fat thumbs in Madrid. Dressing took an hour, breakfast
 the same, everything went slowly.
 But he could still make swords. And people still craved them. "I
 he said to the young Spaniard
 who entered his shop one particular morning. 

 
 the Spaniard said.
 And he threw the six-fingered sword across Yeste's workbench.
 Such embraces.
 
 Yeste said. 
m lonely."
 "I cannot stay," Inigo told him. "I
m ready."
 "Ready? For what? What in the world have you been learning?"
 "The sword."
 "Madness," said Yeste. "You have spent ten entire years just learning to fence?"
 "No, not just learning to fence," Inigo answered. "I did many other things as well."
 "Tell me."
 "Well," Inigo began, "ten years is what? About thirty-six hundred days. And that
s fourteen thousand hours right there, leaving me perhaps
 seventy-two thousand hours to account for."
 "You slept. I

 

 
m sorry, my hearing sometimes fails me; it sounded like you said you squeezed rocks."
 "To make my wrists strong. So I could control the sword. Rocks like apples. That size. I would squeeze
 them in each hand for perhaps two hours a day. And I would spend another two hours a day in skipping
 and dodging and moving quickly, so that my feet would be able to get me into position to deliver
 properly the thrust of the sword. That
m down to fifty-eight thousand
 now. Well, I always sprinted two hours each day as fast as I could, so my legs, as well as being quick,
 would also be strong. And that gets me down to about fifty thousand hours."
 Yeste examined the young man before him. Blade thin, six feet in height, straight as a sapling, bright
 eyed, taut; even motionless he seemed whippet quick. "And these last fifty thousand hours? These have
 been spent studying the sword?"
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (67 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:01 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Inigo nodded.
 "Where?"
 "Wherever I could find a master. Venice, Bruges, Budapest."
 "I could have taught you here?"
 "True. But you care for me. You would not have been ruthless. You would have said, 
s enough for one day; let
"
 "That does sound like me," Yeste admitted. "But why was it so important? Why was it worth so much of
 your life?"
 "Because I could not fail him again."
 "Fail who?"
 "My father. I have spent all these years preparing to find the six-fingered man and kill him in a duel. But
 he is a master, Yeste. He said as much and I saw the way his sword flew at Domingo. I must not lose that
 duel when I find him, so now I have come to you. You know swords and swordsmen. You must not lie.
 Am I ready? If you say I am, I will seek him through the world. If you say no, I will spend another ten
 years and another ten after that, if that is needed."
 So they went to Yeste
We need not test desire and we know you have sufficient
 motive to deliver the death blow,
Therefore we need only probe your knowledge and speed
 and stamina. We need no enemy for this. The enemy is always in the mind. Visualize him.
The six-fingered man taunts you,
Do what you can.
He uses the Agrippa defense,
Now he surprises you with Bonetti's attack.
Enough. I am exhausted from the watching.
You wish to know if I feel you are ready to duel to the death a man ruthless enough to kill your father,
 rich enough to buy protection, older and more experienced, an acknowledged master.
I'll tell you the truth, and it's up to you to live with it. First, there has never been a master as young as
 you. Thirty years at least before that rank has yet been reached, and you are barely twenty-two. Well, the
 truth is you are an impetuous boy driven by madness and you are not now and you will never be a
 master.
Thank you for your honesty,
I must tell you I had hoped for better news. I find it very hard
 to speak just now, so if you'll please excuse me, I'll be on my
I had not finished,
What else is there to say?
I loved your father very dearly, that you know, but this you did not know: when we were very young,
 not yet twenty, we saw, with our own eyes, an exhibition by the Corsican Wizard, Bastia.
I know of no wizards.
It is the rank beyond master in swordsmanship,
Bastia was the last man so designated.
 Long before your birth, he died at sea. There have been no wizards since, and you would never in this
 world have beaten him. But I tell you this: he would never in this world have beaten you.
I am ready then.
I would not enjoy being the six-fingered man
Hello, my name is Inigo
 Montoya, you killed my father, prepare to die,
Oh, yes, I remember killing him; I'll be only too
 delighted to kill you too.
Pardon, I'm not crazy, but have you seen any six-fingered noblemen lately?
yes.
t come sooner.
 And later wasn
t all that discouraging. Inigo criss-crossed Spain and Portugal. The second month
 he moved to France and spent the rest of the year there. The year following that was his Italian year, and
 then came Germany and the whole of Switzerland.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (69 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:01 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 It was only after five solid years of failure that he began to worry. By then he had seen all of the Balkans
 and most of Scandinavia and had visited the Florinese and the natives of Guilder and into Mother Russia
 and down step by step around the entire Mediterranean.
 By then he knew what had happened: ten years learning was ten years too long; too much had been
 allowed to happen. The six-fingered man was probably crusading in Asia. Or getting rich in America. Or
 a hermit in the East Indies. Or . . . or . . .
 Dead?
 Inigo, at the age of twenty-seven, began having a few extra glasses of wine at night, to help him get to
 sleep. At twenty-eight, he was having a few extra glasses to help him digest his lunch. At twenty-nine,
 the wine was essential to wake him in the morning. His world was collapsing around him. Not only was
 he living in daily failure, something almost as dreadful was beginning to happen:
 Fencing was beginning to bore him.
 He was simply too good. He would make his living during his travels by finding the local champion
 wherever he happened to be, and they would duel, and Inigo would disarm him and accept whatever they
 happened to bet. And with his winnings he would pay for his food and his lodging and his wine.
 But the local champions were nothing. Even in the big cities, the local experts were nothing. Even in the
 capital cities, the local masters were nothing. There was no competition, nothing to help him keep an
 edge. His life began to seem pointless, his quest pointless, everything, everything, without reason.
 At thirty he gave up the ghost. He stopped his search, forgot to eat, slept only on occasion. He had his
 wine for company and that was enough.
 He was a shell. The greatest fencing machine since the Corsican Wizard was barely even practicing the
 sword.
 He was in that condition when the Sicilian found him.
 At first the little hunchback only supplied him with stronger wine. But then, through a combination of
 praise and nudging, the Sicilian began to get him off the bottle. Because the Sicilian had a dream: with
 his guile plus the Turk
s sword, they might become the most effective
 criminal organization in the civilized world.
 Which is precisely what they became.
 In dark places, their names whipped sharper than fear; everyone had needs that were hard to fulfill. The
 Sicilian Crowd (two was company, three a crowd, even then) became more and more famous and more
 and more rich. Nothing was beyond or beneath them. Inigo
s strength grew more prodigious with the months.
 But the hunchback was the leader. There was never doubt. Without him, Inigo knew where he would be:
 on his back begging wine in some alley entrance. The Sicilian
Kill the man in black,
s impatience was beginning to bubble beyond control. He stared down at the slow progress. Find a
 crevice, jam in the hand, find another crevice, jam in the other hand; forty-eight feet to go. Inigo slapped
 his sword handle, and his finger snapping began to go faster. He examined the hooded climber, half
 hoping he would be six fingered, but no; this one had the proper accompaniment of digits.
 Forty-seven feet to go now.
 Now forty-six.
 "Hello there," Inigo hollered when he could wait no more.
 The man in black glanced up and grunted.
 "I

 The man in black nodded.
 
 Inigo said.
 
t mean to be rude," the man in black said finally, "but I

 
m sorry," Inigo said.
 The man in black grunted again.
 "I don
 Inigo said.
 
 the man in black said, clearly quite angry now, 

 
 Inigo agreed. 
t think you would accept my help, since I

 
 the man in black said then. 
m afraid you

 Forty-three feet left.
 Forty-one.
 
 Inigo said.
 
 the man in black replied. 
ve known too many Spaniards."
 "I
 Inigo said.
 
d be too happy to accept."
 Thirty-nine feet.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (71 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 And resting.
 The man in black just hung in space, feet dangling, the entire weight of his body supported by the
 strength of his hand jammed into the crevice.
 "Come along now," Inigo pleaded.
 "It
 the man in black explained, 
m weary. I

 Another quarter-hour! Inconceivable. 
ve got a piece of extra rope up here we didn
ll just drop it down to you and you grab hold and I

 
 the man in black repeated. 
re in a hurry to kill me, would certainly do the job quickly."
 "But you wouldn
t been the one to tell you. Doesn

 
t be insulted, no."
 "There
ll trust me?"
 "Nothing comes to mind."
 Suddenly Inigo raised his right hand high"I swear on the soul of Domingo Montoya you will reach the
 top alive!"
 The man in black was silent for a long time. Then he looked up. "I do not know this Domingo of yours,
 but something in your tone says I must believe you. Throw me the rope."
 Inigo quickly tied it around a rock, dropped it over. The man in black grabbed hold, hung suspended
 alone in space. Inigo pulled. In a moment, the man in black was beside him.
 "Thank you," the man in black said, and he sank down on the rock.
 Inigo sat alongside him. "We
re ready," he said.
 The man in black breathed deeply. "Again, thank you."
 "Why have you followed us?"
 "You carry baggage of much value."
 "We have no intention of selling," Inigo said.
 "That is your business."
 "And yours?"
 The man in black made no reply.
 Inigo stood and walked away, surveying the terrain over which they would battle. It was a splendid
 plateau, really, filled with trees for dodging around and roots for tripping over and small rocks for losing
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (72 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 your balance on and boulders for leaping off if you could climb on them fast enough, and bathing
 everything, the entire spot, moonlight. One could not ask for a more suitable testing ground for a duel,
 Inigo decided. It had everything, including the marvelous Cliffs at one end, beyond which was the
 wonderful thousand-foot drop, always something to bear in mind when one was planning tactics. It was
 perfect. The place was perfect.
 Provided the man in black could fence.
 Really fence.
 Inigo did then what he always did before a duel: he took the great sword from its scabbard and touched
 the side of the blade to his face two times, once along one scar, once along the other.
 Then he examined the man in black, A fine sailor, yes; a mighty climber, no question; courageous,
 without a doubt.
 But could he fence?
 Really fence?
 Please, Inigo thought. It has been so long since I have been tested, let this man test me. Let him be a
 glorious swordsman. Let him be both quick and fast, smart and strong. Give him a matchless mind for
 tactics, a background the equal of mine. Please, please, it
I have my breath back now,
Thank you for allowing me my rest.
We'd best get on with it then,
You seem a decent fellow,
I hate to kill you.
You seem a decent fellow,
I hate to die.
But one of us must,
Begin.
s strength. All to the good.
 They touched swords, and the man in black immediately began the Agrippa defense, which Inigo felt was
 sound, considering the rocky terrain, for the Agrippa kept the feet stationary at first, and made the
 chances of slipping minimal. Naturally, he countered with Capo Ferro which surprised the man in black,
 but he defended well, quickly shifting out of Agrippa and taking the attack himself, using the principles
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (73 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 of Thibault.
 Inigo had to smile. No one had taken the attack against him in so long and it was thrilling! He let the man
 in black advance, let him build up courage, retreating gracefully between some trees, letting his Bonetti
 defense keep him safe from harm.
 Then his legs flicked and he was behind the nearest tree, and the man in black had not expected it and
 was slow reacting. Inigo flashed immediately out from the tree, attacking himself now, and the man in
 black retreated, stumbled, got his balance, continued moving away.
 Inigo was impressed with the quickness of the balance return. Most men the size of the man in black
 would have gone down or, at the least, fallen to one hand. The man in black did neither; he simply
 quickstepped, wrenched his body erect, continued fighting.
 They were moving parallel to the Cliffs now, and the trees were behind them, mostly. The man in black
 was slowly being forced toward a group of large boulders, for Inigo was anxious to see how well he
 moved when quarters were close, when you could not thrust or parry with total freedom. He continued to
 force, and then the boulders were surrounding them. Inigo suddenly threw his body against a nearby
 rock, rebounded off it with stunning force, lunging with incredible speed.
 First blood was his.
 He had pinked the man in black, grazed him only, along the left wrist. A scratch was all. But it was
 bleeding.
 Immediately the man in black hurried his retreat, getting his position away from the boulders, getting out
 into the open of the plateau. Inigo followed, not bothering to try to check the other man
t want to give it away so soon. Let the
 other man have the triumph a moment longer; life allowed so few.
 The Cliffs were very close behind him now.
 Inigo continued to retreat; the man in black continued advancing.
 Then Inigo countered with the Thibault.
 And the man in black blocked it.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (74 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 He blocked it!
 Inigo repeated the Thibault move and again it didn
You are most
 excellent,
Thank you,
I have worked very hard to become so.
You are better than I am,
So it seems. But if that is true, then why are you smiling?
Because,
I know something you don't know.
And what is that?
I'm not left-handed,
s
 onslaught, and then he was in the open again, but Inigo kept coming, nothing could stop him, and then
 the man in black was back among the boulders, and that was even worse for him than the trees and he
 shouted out in frustration and practically ran to where there was open space again.
 But there was no dealing with the wizard, and slowly, again, the deadly Cliffs became a factor in the
 fight, only now it was the man in black who was being forced to doom. He was brave, and he was strong,
 and the cuts did not make him beg for mercy, and he showed no fear behind his black mask. "You are
 amazing," he cried, as Inigo increased the already blinding speed of the blade.
 "Thank you. It has not come without effort."
 The death moment was at hand now. Again and again Inigo thrust forward, and again and again the man
 in black managed to ward off the attacks, but each time it was harder, and the strength in Inigo
You cannot tell
 it,
because I wear a cape and mask. But I am smiling now.
Why?
Because I'm not left-handed either,
Who are you?
No one of import. Another lover of the blade.
I must know!
Get used to disappointment.
s veins and he made every attempt, tried
 every trick, used every hour of every day of his years of experience. But he was blocked. By the man in
 black. He was shackled. By the man in black. He was baffled, thwarted, muzzled.
 Beaten.
 By the man in black.
 A final flick and the great six-fingered sword went flying from his hand. Inigo stood there, helpless. Then
 he dropped to his knees, bowed his head, closed his eyes. "Do it quickly," he said.
 "May my hands fall from my wrists before I kill an artist like yourself," said the man in black. "I would
 as soon destroy da Vinci. However"and here he clubbed Inigo
since I
 can't have you following me either, please understand that I hold you in the highest respect.
s hands around a
 tree and left him there, for the moment, sleeping and helpless.
 Then he sheathed his sword, picked up the Sicilian
He has beaten Inigo!
t laugh when Fezzik asked him to play
 rhymes.
 They were hurrying along a mountainous path on the way to the Guilder frontier. The path was narrow
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (76 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 and strewn with rocks like cannonballs, so the Sicilian had a terrible time keeping up. Fezzik carried
 Buttercup lightly on his shoulders; she was still tied hand and foot.
 "I didn
 the Sicilian called out, so Fezzik waited for the hunchback to catch up to
 him.
 
 Fezzik pointed then. Far down, at the very bottom of the mountain path, the man in black could
 be seen running. 

 
 exploded the Sicilian.
 Fezzik never dared disagree with the hunchback. 
m so stupid," Fezzik nodded. "Inigo has not lost to
 the man in black, he has defeated him. And to prove it he has put on all the man in black

 The Sicilian squinted down toward the running figure. 
 he hurled at the Turk. 
t you tell Inigo when you see him? That isn

 
ll never learn," the Turk agreed. "If there

 
s the only conceivable
 explanation."
 Conceivable believable, the giant thought. Only he didn
t have cared less. If he had found out Fezzik
 was making rhymes, he would have laughed and then found new ways to make Fezzik suffer.
 "Untie her feet," the Sicilian commanded.
 Fezzik put the Princess down and ripped the ropes apart that bound her legs. Then he rubbed her ankles
 so she could walk.
 The Sicilian grabbed her immediately and yanked her away. "Catch up with us quickly," the Sicilian said.
 "Instructions?" Fezzik called out, almost panicked. He hated being left on his own like this.
 "Finish him, finish him." The Sicilian was getting peeved. "Succeed, since Inigo failed us."
 "But I can
t know how to fence"
 "Your way." The Sicilian could barely control himself now.
 "Oh yes, good, my way, thank you, Vizzini," Fezzik said to the hunchback. Then, summoning all his
 courage: "I need a hint."
 "You
t care how.
 Wait for him behind there"he pointed to a sharp bend in the mountain path"and crush his head like an
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (77 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 eggshell." He pointed to the cannonball-sized rocks.
 "I could do that, yes," Fezzik nodded. He was marvelous at throwing heavy things. "It just seems not
 very sportsmanlike, doesn

 The Sicilian lost control. It was terrifying when he did it. With most people, they scream and holler and
 jump around. With Vizzini, it was different: he got very very quiet, and his voice sounded like it came
 from a dead throat. And his eyes turned to fire. 

 
t desert me," Fezzik said.
 "Then do as you are told." He grabbed hold of Buttercup again and hobbled up the mountain path and out
 of sight.
 Fezzik glanced down toward the figure racing up the path toward him. Still a good distance away. Time
 enough to practice. Fezzik picked up a rock the size of a cannonball and aimed at a crack in the mountain
 thirty yards away.
 Swoosh.
 Dead center.
 He picked up a bigger rock and threw it at a shadow line twice as distant.
 Not quite swoosh.
 Two inches to the right.
 Fezzik was reasonably satisfied. Two inches off would still crush a head if you aimed for the center. He
 groped around, found a perfect rock for throwing; it just fit his hand. Then he moved to the sharp turn in
 the path, backed off into deepest shadow. Unseen, silent, he waited patiently with his killing rock,
 counting the seconds until the man in black would die. . . .
 FEZZIK
 Turkish women are famous for the size of their babies. The only happy newborn ever to weigh over
 twenty-four pounds upon entrance was the product of a southern Turkish union. Turkish hospital records
 list a total of eleven children who weighed over twenty pounds at birth. And ninety-five more who
 weighed between fifteen and twenty. Now all of these 106 cherubs did what babies usually do at birth:
 they lost three or four ounces and it took them the better part of a week before they got it totally back.
 More accurately, 105 of them lost weight just after they were born.
 Not Fezzik.
 His first afternoon he gained a pound. (Since he weighed but fifteen and since his mother gave birth two
 weeks early, the doctors weren
It's because you came two weeks too soon,
s mother. "That explains it." Actually, of course, it didn
That explains
 it.
s mother had come late, they would have said, "Well, you came late, that explains it." Or
 "Well, it was raining during delivery, this added weight is simply moisture, that explains it.")
 A healthy baby doubles his birth weight in about six months and triples it in a year. When Fezzik was a
 year old, he weighed eighty-five pounds. He wasn
t about to let
 an opportunity like that get away.
 "Bully, bully," they taunted Fezzik during morning yogurt break.
 "I
 Fezzik would say out loud. (To himself he would go 
 He would never dare
 to consider himself a poet, because he wasn't anything like that; he just loved rhymes. Anything you said
 out loud, he rhymed it inside. Sometimes the rhymes made sense, sometimes they didn't. Fezzik never
 cared much about sense; all that ever mattered was the sound.)
 

 Towered. 
m not."
 "Then fight," one of them would say, and would swing all he had and hit Fezzik in the stomach,
 confident that all Fezzik would do was go "oof and stand there, because he never hit back no matter what
 you did to him.
 "Oof."
 Another swing. Another. A good stiff punch to the kidneys maybe. Maybe a kick in the knee. It would go
 on like that until Fezzik would burst into tears and run away.
 One day at home, Fezzik
Come here.
Dry your tears,
Fezzik, this can't go on,
They must stop picking on you.
I don't mind so much,
Well you should mind,
Come on outside. I'm
 going to teach you how to fight.
Please, I don't want
Obey your father.
Make a fist,
He can't even make a fist,
He's trying, he's only six; don't be so hard on him.
s father cared for his son greatly and he tried to keep his voice soft, so Fezzik wouldn
t easy. "Honey," Fezzik
look: when you make a fist, you don't put your
 thumb inside your fingers, you keep your thumb outside your fingers, because if you keep your thumb
 inside your fingers and you hit somebody, what will happen is you'll break your thumb, and that isn't
 good, because the whole object when you hit somebody is to hurt the other guy, not yourself.
I don't want to hurt anybody, Daddy.
I don't wantyou to hurt anybody, Fezzik. But if you know how to take care of yourself, and they know
 you know, they won't bother you any more.
I don't mind so much.
Well we do,
They shouldn't pick on you, Fezzik, just because you need a shave.
Back to the fist,
Have we learned how?
He's a natural learner,
Now hit me,
s father said.
 "No, I don

 

 
t know how to hit," Fezzik
Maybe not.
s mother shook her head sadly.
 "Watch, honey," Fezzik
See? Simple. You just make a fist like you already know and then
 pull back your arm a little and aim for where you want to land and let go.
Show your father what a natural learner you are,
s mother said. "Make a punch. Hit him a good
 one."
 Fezzik made a punch toward his father
s father stared at the heavens again in frustration.
 "He came close to your arm," Fezzik
s face could cloud. "That was
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (80 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 very good for a start, Fezzik; tell him what a good start he made," she said to her husband.
 "It was in the right general direction," Fezzik
If only I'd been standing one yard
 farther west, it would have been perfect.
I'm very tired,
When you learn so much so fast, you get so tired. I do anyway. Please may
 I be excused?
Not yet,
s mother said.
 "Honey, please hit me, really hit me, try. You
 Fezzik's father begged.
 
 Tears began to form.
 
s not going to work, Fezzik," his father exploded. "It
s not gonna
 work on your mother, you
re gonna hit me and if it takes all
 night we
re gonna stand right here and if it"
 S
   P
      L
         A
            T
               !!!!
 (This was before emergency wards, and that was too bad, at least for Fezzik
s punch landed, except to his own bed, where he remained with his eyes
 shut for a day and a half, except for when the milkman came to fix his broken jawthis was not before
 doctors, but in Turkey they hadn
s father was able to open his eyes as much as he wanted, they had a family talk, the three of
 them.
 "You
 his father said. (Actually, that is not strictly true. What his father meant
 was, 
re very strong, Fezzik." What came out was more like this: "Zzz
 Ever
 since the milkman had wired his jaws together, all he could manage was the letter z. But he had a very
 expressive face, and his wife understood him perfectly.)
 
You
"
 "I thought I was," Fezzik answered. "Last year I hit a tree once when I was very mad. I knocked it down.
 It was a small tree, but still, I figured that had to mean something."
 "Z

 
s giving up being a carpenter, Fezzik."
 "Oh, no," Fezzik said. "You

 

 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (81 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 

 

 Fezzik's mother answered this one herself; she and her husband had been up half the night agreeing on
 the decision. 
s going to be your manager, Fezzik. Fighting is the national sport of Turkey. We

 
t like fighting."
 Fezzik
s knee. "Zz
 he said.
 
s going to be wonderful," his mother translated.
 Fezzik only burst into tears.
 They had his first professional match in the village of Sandiki, on a steaming-hot Sunday. Fezzik
s father handled tactics and ring strategy, while his mother was more in charge of
 diet and training, and they had never been happier.
 Fezzik had never been more miserable. He was scared and frightened and terrified, all rolled into one. No
 matter how they reassured him, he refused to enter the arena. Because he knew something: even though
 outside he looked twenty, and his mustache was already coming along nicely, inside he was still this
 nine-year-old who liked rhyming things.
 "No," he said. "I won
t, and you can

 
ve slaved for these three years," his father said. (His jaw was almost as good as new now.)
 "He
 Fezzik said.
 
 his mother said. 

 
m not ready. I forget the holds. I
s true."
 It was. Their only real fear was, were they rushing him? "When the going gets tough, the tough get
 going," Fezzik
Get going, Fezzik,
Listen, we're not going to threaten you,
s parents said, more or less together. "We all care for
 each other too much to pull any of that stuff. If you don
s going to force you.
 We
 (Fezzik's picture of hell was being alone forever. He had told them
 that when he was five.)
 They marched into the arena then to face the champion of Sandiki.
 Who had been champion for eleven years, since he was twenty-four. He was very graceful and wide and
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (82 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 stood six feet in height, only half a foot less than Fezzik.
 Fezzik didn't stand a chance.
 He was too clumsy; he kept falling down or getting his holds on backward so they weren't holds at all.
 The champion of Sandiki toyed with him. Fezzik kept getting thrown down or falling down or tumbling
 down or stumbling down. He always got up and tried again, but the champion of Sandiki was much too
 fast for him, and too clever, and much, much too experienced. The crowd laughed and ate baklava and
 enjoyed the whole spectacle.
 Until Fezzik got his arms around the champion of Sandiki.
 The crowd grew very quiet then.
 Fezzik lifted him up.
 No noise.
 Fezzik squeezed.
 And squeezed.
 
s enough now," Fezzik
Thank you,
You are a wonderful fighter and I was lucky.
Raise your hands, you're the winner,
Booooo,
Animal.
Ape!
Go-rilla
BOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!
t very safe from then on to linger long
 anywhere. They fought the champion of Ispir. "BOOOOOOOOOOO!!!" The champion of Simal.
 "BOOOOOOOOOOO!!!" They fought in Bolu. They fought in Zile.
 "BOOOOOOOOOOO!!!"
 "I don
 Fezzik's mother told him one winter afternoon. 
re my son and
 you
 It was gray and dark and they were hotfooting it out of Constantinople just as fast as
 they could because Fezzik had just demolished their champion before most of the crowd was even
 seated.
 
m not wonderful," Fezzik said. "They
m too big. Whenever I fight, it looks like
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (83 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 I

 
 Fezzik's father began a little hesitantly; 
d just possibly kind of sort of
 lose a few fights, they might not yell at us so much."
 The wife whirled on the husband. "The boy is eleven and already you want him to throw fights?"
 "Nothing like that, no, don
d even look like he was suffering a little,
 they

 
m suffering," Fezzik said. (He was, he was.)
 "Let it show a little more."
 "I

 
s a good boy."
 "I can
s not my fault. I don

 
s time to head for Greece," Fezzik
We've beaten everyone in Turkey who'll
 fight us and athletics began in Greece. No one appreciates talent like the Greeks.
I just hate it when they go 'BOOOOOOOOOOO!!!' 
BOOOOOOOOOOO
They'll love you in Greece,
s mother said.
 They fought in Greece.
 "AARRRGGGGH!!!" (AARRRGGGGH!!! was Greek for BOOOOOOOOOOO!!!)
 Bulgaria.
 Yugoslavia.
 Czechoslovakia. Romania.
 "BOOOOOOOOOOO!!!"
 They tried the Orient. The jujitsu champion of Korea. The karate champion of Siam. The kung fu
 champion of all India.
 "SSSSSSSSSSSSS!!!" (See note on AARRRGGGGH!!!)
 In Mongolia his parents died. "We
 they said, and
 they were gone. It was a terrible thing, a plague that swept everything before it. Fezzik would have died
 too, only naturally he never got sick. Alone, he continued on, across the Gobi Desert, hitching rides
 sometimes with passing caravans. And it was there that he learned how to make them stop
 BOOOOOOOOOOO!!!ing.
 Fight groups.
 It all began in a caravan on the Gobi when the caravan head said, 
ll bet my camel drivers can take
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (84 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 you." There were only three of them, so Fezzik said, "Fine," he
Animal.
Ape!
Go-rilla!
BOOOOOOOOOOO!!!
t the point.
 The point was that Fezzik was alone.
 In the loneliest place in the world.
 Just sitting there on a rock watching the circus pull away.
 He was still sitting there the next day when Vizzini the Sicilian found him. Vizzini flattered him,
 promised to keep the BOOOOOOOOOOOS away. Vizzini needed Fezzik. But not half as much as
 Fezzik needed Vizzini. As long as Vizzini was around, you couldn
s way. Nothing unsportsmanlike. His parents had always taught him
 to go by the rules. Fezzik stood in shadow, the great rock tight in his great hand. He could hear the
 footsteps of the man in black coming nearer. Nearer.
 Fezzik leaped from hiding and threw the rock with incredible power and perfect accuracy. It smashed
 into a boulder a foot away from the face of the man in black. "I did that on purpose," Fezzik said then,
 picking up another rock, holding it ready. "I didn

 
 the man in black said.
 They stood facing each other on the narrow mountain path.
 
 asked the man in black.
 
 Fezzik said. 

 
ll put down your rock and I
ll try to kill each other like
 civilized people, is that it?"
 "If you
 Fezzik said gently, and he raised the rock to throw. 
m giving you
 a chance."
 "So you are and I accept it," said the man in black, and he began to take off his sword and scabbard.
 "Although, frankly, I think the odds are slightly in your favor at hand fighting."
 "I tell you what I tell everybody," Fezzik explained. "I cannot help being the biggest and strongest; it

 
m not blaming you," said the man in black.
 "Let
 Fezzik said, and he dropped his rock and got into fighting position, watching as the
 man in black slowly moved toward him. For a moment, Fezzik felt almost wistful. This was clearly a
 good fellow, even if he had killed Inigo. He didn't complain or try and beg or bribe. He just accepted his
 fate. No complaining, nothing like that. Obviously a criminal of character. (Was he a criminal, though,
 Fezzik wondered. Surely the mask would indicate that. Or was it worse than that: was he disfigured? His
 face burned away by acid perhaps? Or perhaps born hideous?)
 
 Fezzik asked.
 
 was the man in black's reply. 
re terribly comfortable."
 They faced each other on the mountain path. There was a moment
s strength, which was considerable for someone
 who wasn
You're very quick,
And a good thing too,
s great hands reached out than the man in black dropped and spun and twisted and was loose and
 free and still quite alive.
 I don
s happening, Fezzik thought. Could I be losing my strength? Could there
 be a mountain disease that takes your strength? There was a desert disease that took my parents
t he weak? No, I must still be
 strong, it has to be something else, now what could it be?
 Suddenly he knew. He had not fought against one man in so long he had all but forgotten how. He had
 been fighting groups and gangs and bunches for so many years, that the idea of having but a single
 opponent was slow in making itself known to him. Because you fought them entirely differently. When
 there were twelve against you, you made certain moves, tried certain holds, acted in certain ways. When
 there was but one, you had to completely readjust yourself. Quickly now, Fezzik went back through time.
 How had he fought the champion of Sandiki? He flashed through that fight in his mind, then reminded
 himself of all the other victories against other champions, the men from Ispir and Simal and Bolu and
 Zile. He remembered fleeing Constantinople because he had beaten their champion so quickly. So easily.
 Yes, Fezzik thought. Of course. And suddenly he readjusted his style to what it once had been.
 But by that time the man in black had him by the throat!
 The man in black was riding him, and his arms were locked across Fezzik
s arms. He pounded his giant
 fists against them.
 By now he had no air.
 Fezzik continued to struggle. He could feel a hollowness in his legs now; he could see the world
 beginning to pale. But he did not give up. He was the mighty Fezzik, lover of rhymes, and you did not
 give up, no matter what. Now the hollowness was in his arms and the world was snowing.
 Fezzik went to his knees.
 He pounded still, but feebly. He fought still, but his blows would not have harmed a child. No air. There
 was no more air. There was no more anything, not for Fezzik, not in this world. I am beaten, I am going
 to die, he thought just before he fell onto the mountain path.
 He was only half wrong.
 There is an instant between unconsciousness and death, and as the giant pitched onto the rocky path, that
 instant happened, and just before it happened, the man in black let go. He staggered to his feet and leaned
 against a boulder until he could walk. Fezzik lay sprawled, faintly breathing. The man in black looked
 around for a rope to secure the giant, gave up the search almost as soon as he
d dropped his sword. He put it back on.
 Two down and (the hardest) one to go . . .
 Vizzini was waiting for him.
 Indeed, he had set out a little picnic spread. From the knapsack that he always carried, he had taken a
 small handkerchief and on it he had placed two wine goblets. In the center was a small leather wine
 holder and, beside it, some cheese and some apples. The spot could not have been lovelier: a high point
 of the mountain path with a splendid view all the way back to Florin Channel. Buttercup lay helpless
 beside the picnic, gagged and tied and blindfolded. Vizzini held his long knife against her white throat.
 "Welcome," Vizzini called when the man in black was almost upon them.
 The man in black stopped and surveyed the situation.
 "You
 Vizzini said.
 

 

 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (88 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 
 the man in black said, edging just a half-step closer to the hunchback's long
 knife.
 With a smile the hunchback pushed the knife harder against Buttercup's throat. It was about to bring
 blood. 
 Vizzini said.
 The man in black froze.
 
 Vizzini nodded.
 No sound now beneath the moonlight.
 
 the Sicilian said finally, 

 
 the man in black began, starting to edge forward.
 
re killing her!" the Sicilian screamed, shoving harder with the knife. A drop of blood appeared now
 at Buttercup
Let me explain,
There is nothing you can tell me I do not already know. I have not had
 the schooling equal to some, but for knowledge outside of books, there is no one in the world close to
 me. People say I read minds, but that is not, in all honesty, true. I merely predict the truth using logic and
 wisdom, and I say you are a kidnapper, admit it.
I will admit that, as a ransom item, she has value; nothing more.
I have been instructed to do certain things to her. It is very important that I follow my instructions. If I
 do this properly, I will be in demand for life. And my instructions do not include ransom, they include
 death. So your explanations are meaningless; we cannot do business together. You wish to keep her alive
 for ransom, whereas it is terribly important to me that she stop breathing in the very near future.
Has it occurred to you that I have gone to great effort and expense, as well as personal sacrifice, to reach
 this point,
And that if I fail now, I might get very angry. And if she stops
 breathing in the very near future, it is entirely possible that you will catch the same fatal illness?
I have no doubt you could kill me. Any man who can get by Inigo and Fezzik would have no trouble
 disposing of me. However, has it occurred to you that if you did that, then neither of us would get what
 we wantyou having lost your ransom item, me my life.
We are at an impasse then,
I fear so,
I cannot compete with you physically, and you are no match for my
 brains.
You are that smart?
There are no words to contain all my wisdom. I am so cunning, crafty and clever, so filled with deceit,
 guile and chicanery, such a knave, so shrewd, cagey as well as calculating, as diabolical as I am vulpine,
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (89 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 as tricky as I am untrustworthy . . . well, I told you there were not words invented yet to explain how
 great my brain is, but let me put it this way: the world is several million years old and several billion
 people have at one time or another trod upon it, but I, Vizzini the Sicilian, am, speaking with pure candor
 and modesty, the slickest, sleekest, sliest and wiliest fellow who has yet come down the pike.
In that case,
I challenge you to a battle of wits.
For the Princess?
You read my mind.
It just seems that way, I told you. It's merely logic and wisdom. To the death?
Correct again.
I accept,
Begin the battle!
Pour the wine,
Open it
 and inhale, but be careful not to touch.
I smell nothing.
What you do not smell is called iocane powder. It is odorless,
 tasteless and dissolves immediately in any kind of liquid. It also happens to be the deadliest poison
 known to man.
I don't suppose you'd hand me the goblets,
Take them yourself. My long knife does not leave her throat.
Your guess,
Where is the poison?
Guess?
I don't guess. I think. I ponder. I deduce. Then I decide. But I never guess.
The battle of wits has begun,
It ends when you decide and we drink the wine
 and find out who is right and who is dead. We both drink, need I add, and swallow, naturally, at precisely
 the same time.
It's all so simple,
All I have to do is deduce, from what I know of you, the way
 your mind works. Are you the kind of man who would put the poison into his own glass, or into the glass
 of his enemy?
You're stalling,
I'm relishing is what I'm doing,
No one has challenged my mind in years and I
 love it. . . . By the way, may I smell both goblets?
Be my guest. Just be sure you put them down the same way you found them.
As you said, odorless.
As I also said, you're stalling.
Now a great fool,
would place the wine
 in his own goblet, because he would know that only another great fool would reach first for what he was
 given. I am clearly not a great fool, so I will clearly not reach for your wine.
That's your final choice?
No. Because you knew I was not a great fool, so you would know that I would never fall for such a
 trick. You would count on it. So I will clearly not reach for mine either.
Keep going,
I intend to.
We have now decided the poisoned cup is most likely in
 front of you. But the poison is powder made from iocane and iocane comes only from Australia and
 Australia, as everyone knows, is peopled with criminals and criminals are used to having people not trust
 them, as I don't trust you, which means I can clearly not choose the wine in front of you.
But, again, you must have suspected I knew the origins of iocane, so you would have known I knew
 about the criminals and criminal behavior, and therefore I can clearly not choose the wine in front of
 me.
Truly you have a dizzying intellect,
You have beaten my Turk, which means you are exceptionally strong, and exceptionally strong men are
 convinced that they are too powerful ever to die, too powerful even for iocane poison, so you could have
 put it in your cup, trusting on your strength to save you; thus I can clearly not choose the wine in front of
 you.
But you also bested my Spaniard, which means you must have studied, because he studied many years
 for his excellence, and if you can study, you are clearly more than simply strong; you are aware of how
 mortal we all are, and you do not wish to die, so you would have kept the poison as far from yourself as
 possible; therefore I can clearly not choose the wine in front of me.
You're just trying to make me give something away with all this chatter,
Well it won't work. You'll learn nothing from me, that I promise you.
I have already learned everything from you,
I know where the poison is.
Only a genius could have deduced as much.
How fortunate for me that I happen to be one,
You cannot frighten me,
Shall we drink then?
Pick, choose, quit dragging it out, you don't know, you couldn't know.
What in the world can that be?
I don't see anything.
Oh, well, I could have sworn I saw something, no matter.
I don't understand what's so funny,
Tell you in a minute,
But first let's drink.
You guessed wrong,
You only think I guessed wrong,
That's what's so funny. I
 switched glasses when your back was turned.
Fool!
You fell victim to one of the classic blunders. The most famous is 'Never
 get involved in a land war in Asia,' but only slightly less well known is this: 'Never go in against a
 Sicilian when death is on the line.'
s
 eyes.
 "I heard everything that happ" Buttercup began, and then she said "Oh" because she had never been next
 to a dead man before. "You killed him," she whispered finally.
 "I let him die laughing," said the man in black. "Pray I do as much for you." He lifted her, slashed her
 bonds away, put her on her feet, started to pull her along.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (92 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 "Please," Buttercup said. "Give me a moment to gather myself." The man in black released his grip.
 Buttercup rubbed her wrists, stopped, massaged her ankles. She took a final look at the Sicilian. "To
 think," she murmured, "all that time it was your cup that was poisoned."
 "They were both poisoned," said the man in black. "I

 Buttercup looked up at him. He was terrifying to her, masked and hooded and dangerous; his voice was
 strained, rough. 
 she asked.
 
 replied the man in black. 
 And with
 that he yanked her upright. 
ve had your moment." Again he pulled her after him, and this time she
 could do nothing but follow.
 They moved along the mountain path. The moonlight was very bright, and there were rocks everywhere,
 and to Buttercup it all looked dead and yellow, like the moon. She had just spent several hours with three
 men who were openly planning to kill her. So why, she wondered, was she more frightened now than
 then? Who was the horrid hooded figure to strike fear in her so? What could be worse than dying? "I will
 pay you a great deal of money to release me," she managed to say.
 The man in black glanced at her. "You are rich, then?"
 "I will be," Buttercup said. "Whatever you want for ransom, I promise I
ll let me
 go."
 The man in black just laughed.
 "I was not speaking in jest."
 "You promise? You? I should release you on your promise? What is that worth? The vow of a woman?
 Oh, that is very funny, Highness. Spoken in jest or not." They proceeded along the mountain path to an
 open space. The man in black stopped then. There were a million stars fighting for prominence and for a
 moment he seemed to be intent on nothing less than studying them all, as Buttercup watched his eyes
 flick from constellation to constellation behind his mask.
 Then, with no warning, he spun off the path, heading into wild terrain, pulling her behind him.
 She stumbled; he pulled her to her feet; again she fell; again he righted her.
 "I cannot move this quickly."
 "You can! And you will! Or you will suffer greatly. Do you think I could make you suffer greatly?"
 Buttercup nodded.
 "Then run!" cried the man in black, and he broke into a run himself, flying across rocks in the moonlight,
 pulling the Princess behind him.
 She did her best to keep up. She was frightened as to what he would do to her, so she dared not fall again.
 After five minutes, the man in black stopped dead. "Catch your breath," he commanded.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (93 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Buttercup nodded, gasped in air, tried to quiet her heart. But then they were off again, with no warning,
 dashing across the mountainous terrain, heading . . .
 "Where . . . do you take me?" Buttercup gasped, when he again gave her a chance to rest.
 "Surely even someone as arrogant as you cannot expect me to give an answer."
 "It does not matter if you tell or not. He will find you."
 " 
 Highness?"
 "Prince Humperdinck. There is no greater hunter. He can track a falcon on a cloudy day; he can find
 you."
 "You have confidence that your dearest love will save you, do you?"
 "I never said he was my dearest love, and yes, he will save me; that I know."
 "You admit you do not love your husband-to-be? Fancy. An honest woman. You

 

 

 
m very capable of love," Buttercup said.
 "Hold your tongue, I think."
 "I have loved more deeply than a killer like you can possibly imagine."
 He slapped her.
 "That is the penalty for lying, Highness. Where I come from, when a woman lies, she is reprimanded."
 "But I spoke the truth, I did, I" Buttercup saw his hand rise a second time, so she stopped quickly, fell
 dead silent.
 Then they began to run again.
 They did not speak for hours. They just ran, and then, as if he could guess when she was spent, he would
 stop, release her hand. She would try to catch her breath for the next dash she was sure would come.
 Without a sound, he would grab her and off they would go.
 It was close to dawn when they first saw the Armada.
 They were running along the edge of a towering ravine. They seemed almost to be at the top of the
 world. When they stopped, Buttercup sank down to rest. The man in black stood silently over her. "Your
 love comes, not alone," he said then.
 Buttercup did not understand.
 The man in black pointed back the way they had come.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (94 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Buttercup stared, and as she did, the waters of Florin Channel seemed as filled with light as the sky was
 filled with stars.
 "He must have ordered every ship in Florin after you," the man in black said. "Such a sight I have never
 seen." He stared at all the lanterns on all the ships as they moved.
 "You can never escape him," Buttercup said. "If you release me, I promise that you will come to no
 harm."
 "You are much too generous; I could never accept such an offer."
 "I offered you your life, that was generous enough."
 "Highness!" said the man in black, and his hands were suddenly at her throat. "If there is talk of life to be
 done, let me do it."
 "You would not kill me. You did not steal me from murderers to murder me yourself."
 "Wise as well as loving," said the man in black. He jerked her to her feet, and they ran along the edge of
 the great ravine. It was hundreds of feet deep, and filled with rocks and trees and lifting shadows.
 Abruptly, the man in black stopped, stared back at the Armada. "To be honest," he said, "I had not
 expected quite so many."
 "You can never predict my Prince; that is why he is the greatest hunter."
 "I wonder," said the man in black, "will he stay in one group or will he divide, some to search the
 coastline, some to follow your path on land? What do you think?"
 "I only know he will find me. And if you have not given me my freedom first, he will not treat you
 gently."
 "Surely he must have discussed things with you? The thrill of the hunt. What has he done in the past with
 many ships?"
 "We do not discuss hunting, that I can assure you."
 "Not hunting, not love, what do you talk about?"
 "We do not see all that much of each other."
 "Tender couple."
 Buttercup could feel the upset coming. "We are always very honest with each other. Not everyone can
 say as much."
 "May I please tell you something, Highness? You

 
m not"
 "very cold and very young, and if you live, I think you

 
 Her heart was a secret garden and the walls were very high. 
 Buttercup said after a
 moment. 

 

 

 

 

 The Armada began to fire signal cannons. The explosions echoed through the mountains. The man in
 black stared as the ships began to change formation.
 And while he was watching the ships, Buttercup shoved him with all her strength remaining.
 For a moment, the man in black teetered at the ravine edge. His arms spun like windmills fighting for
 balance. They swung and gripped the air and then he began his slide.
 Down went the man in black.
 Stumbling and torn and reaching out to stop his descent, but the ravine was too steep, and nothing could
 be done.
 Down, down.
 Rolling over rocks, spinning, out of all control.
 Buttercup stared at what she had done.
 Finally he rested far below her, silent and without motion. 
 she said, and
 then she turned away.
 Words followed her. Whispered from far, weak and warm and familiar. 

 Dawn in the mountains. Buttercup turned back to the source of the sound and stared down as, in first
 light, the man in black struggled to remove his mask.
 
 Buttercup said. 

 From the bottom of the ravine, there came only silence.
 Buttercup hesitated not a moment. Down she went after him, keeping her feet as best she could, and as
 she began, she thought she heard him crying out to her over and over, but she could not make sense of
 his words, because inside her now there was the thunder of walls crumbling, and that was noise enough.
 Besides, her balance quickly was gone and the ravine had her. She fell fast and she fell hard, but what did
 that matter, since she would have gladly dropped a thousand feet onto a bed of nails if Westley had been
 waiting at the bottom.
 Down, down.
 Tossed and spinning, crashing, torn, out of all control, she rolled and twisted and plunged, cartwheeling
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (96 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 toward what was left of her beloved. . . .
 From his position at the point of the Armada, Prince Humperdinck stared up at the Cliffs of Insanity.
 This was just like any other hunt. He made himself think away the quarry. It did not matter if you were
 after an antelope or a bride-to-be; the procedures held. You gathered evidence. Then you acted. You
 studied, then you performed. If you studied too little, the chances were strong that your actions would
 also be too late. You had to take time. And so, frozen in thought, he continued to stare up the sheer face
 of the Cliffs.
 Obviously, someone had recently climbed them. There were foot scratchings all the way up a straight
 line, which meant, most certainly, a rope, an arm-over-arm climb up a thousand-foot rope with
 occasional foot kicks for balance. To make such a climb required both strength and planning, so the
 Prince made those marks in his brain: my enemy is strong; my enemy is not impulsive.
 Now his eyes reached a point perhaps three hundred feet from the top. Here it began to get interesting.
 Now the foot scratchings were deeper, more frequent, and they followed no direct ascending line. Either
 someone left the rope three hundred feet from the top intentionally, which made no sense, or the rope
 was cut while that someone was still three hundred feet from safety. For clearly, this last part of the
 climb was made up the rock face itself. But who had such talent? And why had he been called to exercise
 it at such a deadly time, seven hundred feet above disaster?
 
 the Prince said, without bothering to turn.
 From behind him, Count Rugen only said, 
 and awaited further instructions.
 

 Count Rugen signaled the cannoneer, and the Prince's instructions boomed along the Cliffs. Within
 minutes, the Armada had begun to split, with only the Prince's giant ship sailing alone closest to the
 coastline, looking for a landing possibility.
 
 the Prince ordered, some time later, and his ship began maneuvering into the cove for a safe
 place to anchor. That took time, but not much, because the Captain was skilled and, more than that, the
 Prince was quick to lose patience and no one dared risk that.
 Humperdinck jumped from ship to shore, a plank was lowered, and the whites were led to ground. Of all
 his accomplishments, none pleased the Prince as did these horses. Someday he would have an army of
 them, but getting the bloodlines perfect was a slow business. He now had four whites and they were
 identical. Snowy, tireless giants. Twenty hands high. On flatland, nothing could catch them, and even on
 hills and rocky terrain, there was nothing short of Araby close to their equal. The Prince, when rushed,
 rode all four, bareback, the only way he ever rode, riding one, leading three, changing beasts in
 mid-stride, so that no single animal had to bear his bulk to the tiring point.
 Now he mounted and was gone.
 It took him considerably less than an hour to reach the edge of the Cliffs of Insanity. He dismounted,
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (97 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 went to his knees, commenced his study of the terrain. There had been a rope tied around a giant oak.
 The bark at the base was broken and scraped, so probably whoever first reached the top untied the rope
 and whoever was on the rope at that moment was three hundred feet from the peak and somehow
 survived the climb.
 A great jumble of footprints caused him trouble. It was hard to ascertain what had gone on. Perhaps a
 conference, because two sets of footprints seemed to lead off while one remained pacing the cliff edge.
 Then there were two on the cliff edge. Humperdinck examined the prints until he was certain of two
 things: (1) a fencing match had taken place, (2) the combatants were both masters. The stride length, the
 quickness of the foot feints, all clearly revealed to his unfailing eye, made him reassess his second
 conclusion. They were at least masters. Probably better.
 Then he closed his eyes and concentrated on smelling out the blood. Surely, in a match of such ferocity,
 blood must have been spilled. Now it was a matter of giving his entire body over to his sense of smell.
 The Prince had worked at this for many years, ever since a wounded tigress had surprised him from a tree
 limb while he was tracking her. He had let his eyes follow the blood hunt
 then, and it had almost killed him. Now he trusted only his olfactories. If there was blood within a
 hundred yards, he would find it.
 He opened his eyes, moved without hesitation toward a group of large boulders until he found the blood
 drops. There were few of them, and they were dry. But less than three hours old. Humperdinck smiled.
 When you had the whites under you, three hours was a finger snap.
 He retraced the duel then, for it confused him. It seemed to range from cliff edge and back, then return to
 the cliff edge. And sometimes the left foot seemed to be leading, sometimes the right, which made no
 logical sense at all. Clearly swordsmen were changing hands, but why would a master do that unless his
 good arm was wounded to the point of uselessness, and that clearly had not happened, because a wound
 of that depth would have left blood spoors and there was simply not enough blood in the area to indicate
 that.
 Strange, strange. Humperdinck continued his wanderings. Stranger still, the battle could not have ended
 in death. He knelt by the outline of a body. Clearly, a man had lain unconscious here. But again, no
 blood.
 
 Prince Humperdinck said, directing his comment toward Count Rugen, who
 had finally caught up, together with a contingent of a hundred mounted men-at-arms. 
 And for a moment the Prince paused, following footsteps. 
 and he pointed one way, 

 
 the Count asked.
 
 Prince Humperdinck replied. 
re after. And because we don

 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (98 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 
 the Count asked.
 
 the Prince answered. 
m still
 alive."
 And with that, he was back aboard a white and galloping.
 When he reached the mountain path where the hand fight happened, the Prince did not even bother
 dismounting. Everything that could be seen was quite visible from horseback.
 "Someone has beaten a giant," he said, when the Count was close enough. "The giant has run away, do
 you see?"
 The Count, of course, saw nothing but rock and mountain path. "I would not think to doubt you."
 "And look there!" cried the Prince, because now he saw, for the first time, in the rubble of the mountain
 path, the footsteps of a woman. "The Princess is alive!"
 And again the whites were thundering across the mountain.
 When the Count caught up with him again, the Prince was kneeling over the still body of a hunchback.
 The Count dismounted. "Smell this," the Prince said, and he handed up a goblet.
 "Nothing," the Count said. "No odor at all."
 "Iocane," the Prince replied. "I would bet my life on it. I know of nothing else that kills so silently." He
 stood up then. "The Princess was still alive; her footprints follow the path." He shouted at the hundred
 mounted men: "There will be great suffering in Guilder if she dies!" On foot now, he ran along the
 mountain path, following the footsteps that he alone could see. And when those footsteps left the path for
 wilder terrain, he followed still. Strung out behind him, the Count and all the soldiers did their best to
 keep up. Men stumbled, horses fell, even the Count tripped from time to time. Prince Humperdinck never
 even broke stride. He ran steadily, mechanically, his barrel legs pumping like a metronome.
 It was two hours after dawn when he reached the steep ravine.
 "Odd," he said to the Count, who was tiring badly.
 The Count continued only to breathe deeply.
 "Two bodies fell to the bottom, and they did not come back up."
 "That is odd," the Count managed.
 "No, that isn
s odd," the Prince corrected. "Clearly, the kidnapper did not come back up because
 the climb was too steep, and our cannons must have let him know that they were closely pursued. His
 decision, which I applaud, was to make better time running along the ravine floor."
 The Count waited for the Prince to continue.
 "It

 
 asked the Count.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (99 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 
 said Prince Humperdinck.
 
 said the Count.
 
 It was a well-documented trait of his to smile only just before the kill; his smile was very
 much in evidence now. . . .
 Westley, indeed, had not the least idea that he was racing dead into the Fire Swamp. He knew only, once
 Buttercup was down at the ravine bottom beside him, that to climb out would take, as Prince
 Humperdinck had assumed, too much time. Westley noted only that the ravine bottom was flat rock and
 heading in the general direction he wanted to follow. So he and Buttercup fled along, both of them very
 much aware that gigantic forces were following them, and, undoubtedly, cutting into their lead.
 The ravine grew increasingly sheer as they went along, and Westley soon realized that whereas once he
 probably could have helped her through the climb, now there was simply no way of doing so. He had
 made his choice and there was no changing possible: wherever the ravine led was their destination, and
 that, quite simply, was that.
 (At this point in the story, my wife wants it known that she feels violently cheated, not being allowed the
 scene of reconciliation on the ravine floor between the lovers. My reply to her
 This is me, and I'm not trying to be confusing, but the above paragraph that I'm cutting into now is
 verbatim Morgenstern; he was continually referring to his wife in the unabridged book, saying that she
 loved the next section or she thought that, all in all, the book was extraordinarily brilliant. Mrs.
 Morgenstern was rarely anything but supportive to her husband, unlike some wives I could mention
 (sorry about that, Helen), but here's the thing: I got rid of almost all the intrusions when he told us what
 she thought. I didn't think the device added a whole lot, and, besides, he was always complimenting
 himself through her and today we know that hyping something too much does more harm than good, as
 any defeated political candidate will tell you when he pays his television bills. The thing of it is, I left this
 particular reference in because, for once, I totally happen to agree with Mrs. Morgenstern. I think it was
 unfair not to show the reunion. So I wrote one of my own, what I felt Buttercup and Westley might have
 said, but Hiram, my editor, felt that made me just as unfair as Morgenstern here. If you're going to
 abridge a book in the author's own words, you can't go around sticking your own in. That was Hiram's
 point, and we really went round and round, arguing over, I guess, a period of a month, in person, through
 letters, on the phone. Finally we compromised to this extent: this, what you're reading in the black print,
 is strict Morgenstern. Verbatim. Cut, yes; changed, no. But I got Hiram to agree that Harcourt would at
 least print up my sceneit's all of three pages; big dealand if any of you want to see what it came out like,
 drop a note or postcard to Hiram Haydn at Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 757 Third Avenue, New York
 City, and just mention you'd like the reunion scene. Don't forget to include your return address; you 'd be
 stunned at how many people send in for things and don't put their return address down. Harcourt agreed
 to spring for the postage costs, so your total expense is the note or card or whatever. It would really upset
 me if I turned out to be the only modem American writer who gave the impression that he was with a
 generous publishing house (they all stinksorry about that, Mr. Jovanovich), so let me just add here that
 the reason they are so generous in paying this giant postage bill is because they fully expect nobody to
 write in. So please, if you have the least interest at all or even if you don't, write in for my reunion scene.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (100 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 You don't have to read itI'm not asking thatbut I would love to cost those publishing geniuses a few
 dollars, because, let's face it, they're not spending much on advertising my books. Let me just repeat the
 address for you, ZIP code and all:
 Hiram Haydn
 Harcourt Brace Jovanovich
 757 Third Avenue
 New York, New York 10017
 and just ask for your copy of the reunion scene. This has gone on longer than I planned, so I'm going to
 repeat the Morgenstern paragraph I interrupted; it'll read better. Over and out.
 (At this point in the story, my wife wants it known that she feels violently cheated, not being allowed the
 scene of reconciliation on the ravine floor between the lovers. My reply to her is simply this: (a) each of
 God's beings, from the lowliest on up, is entitled to at least a few moments of genuine privacy. (b) What
 actually was spoken, while moving enough to those involved at the actual time, flattens like toothpaste
 when transferred to paper for later reading: 
 
 
 et cetera. (c) Nothing of
 importance in an expository way was related, because every time Buttercup began 
 Westley quickly cut her off with 
 However, it should be
 noted, in fairness to all, that (1) he did weep; (2) her eyes did not remain precisely dry; (3) there was
 more than one embrace; and (4) both parties admitted that, without any qualifications whatsoever, they
 were more than a little glad to see each other. Besides, (5) within a quarter of an hour, they were arguing.
 It began quite innocently, the two of them kneeling, facing each other, Westley holding her perfect face
 in his quick hands. 
 he whispered, 

 
 Buttercup said. 
ve got a
 mind, Westley. Talk about that."
 "Throughout eternity I shall do that very thing," he told her. "But now we haven
 He made it to his
 feet. The ravine fall had shaken and battered him, but all his bones survived the trip uncracked. He
 helped her to her feet.
 
 Buttercup said then. 

 
ve forgotten whatever it was."
 "Terrible liar."
 He smiled at her and kissed her cheek. "It

 
 She meant it.
 He could tell that. 
 he tried.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (101 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 

 Westley sighed. 
Whatever you do, stay up there! Don
"
 "You didn

 
t want to see you down here."
 "Why ever not?"
 "Because now, my precious, we
t climb out of here and bring you
 with me without it taking all day. I can get out myself, most likely, without it taking all day, but with the
 addition of your lovely bulk, it

 
t nearly that steep."
 "And it took a little out of me too, let me tell you. And after that little effort, I tangled with a fella who
 knew a little something about fencing. And after that, I spent a few happy moments grappling with a
 giant. And after that, I had to outfake a Sicilian to death when any mistake meant it was a knife in the
 throat for you. And after that I
m tired, Buttercup; do you understand tired? I
m trying to get through to you."
 "I

 

 

 
t countI mean
 something with print in it."
 Buttercup walked away from him. "There
 she said, 
 With no more words,
 she whirled into his arms then, saying, 
t mean that, I didn
t, not a single
 syllabub of it."
 Now Westley knew that she meant to say "not a single syllable of it," because a syllabub was something
 you ate, with cream and wine mixed in together to form the base. But he also knew an apology when he
 heard one. So he held her very close, and shut his loving eyes, and only whispered, "I knew it was false,
 believe me, every single syllabub."
 And that out of the way, they started running as fast as they could along the flat-rock floor of the ravine.
 Westley, naturally enough, was considerably ahead of Buttercup with the realization that they were
 heading into the Fire Swamp. Whether it was a touch of sulphur riding a breeze or a flick of yellow flame
 far ahead in the daylight, he could not say for sure. But once he realized what was about to happen, he
 began as casually as possible to find a way to avoid it. A quick glance up the sheer ravine sides ruled out
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (102 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 any possibility of his getting Buttercup past the climb. He dropped to the ground, as he had been doing
 every few minutes, to test the speed of their trackers. Now, he guessed them to be less than half an hour
 behind and gaining.
 He rose and ran with her, faster, neither of them spending breath in conversation. It was only a matter of
 time before she understood what they were about to be into, so he decided to beat back her panic in any
 way possible. "I think we can slow down a bit now," he told her, slowing down a bit. "They

 Buttercup took a deep breath of relief.
 Westley made a show of checking their surroundings. Then he gave her his best smile. 
 he said, 

 Buttercup heard his speech, of course. But she did not, she did not, take it well. . . .
 A few words now on two related subjects: (1) fire swamps in general and (2) the Florin/Guilder Fire
 Swamp in particular.
 (1) Fire swamps are, of course, entirely misnamed. As to why this has happened, no one knows, though
 probably the colorful quality of the two words together is enough. Simply, there are swamps which
 contain a large percentage of sulphur and other gas bubbles that burst continually into flame. They are
 covered with lush giant trees that shadow the ground, making the flame bursts seem particularly
 dramatic. Because they are dark, they are almost always quite moist, thereby attracting the standard
 insect and alligator community that prefers a moist climate. In other words, a fire swamp is just a swamp,
 period; the rest is embroidery.
 (2) The Florin/Guilder Fire Swamp did and does have some particular odd characteristics: (a) the
 existence of Snow Sand and (b) the presence of the R.O.U.S., about which, a bit more later. Snow Sand
 is usually, again incorrectly, identified with lightning sand. Nothing could be less accurate. Lightning
 sand is moist and basically destroys by drowning. Snow Sand is as powdery as anything short of talcum,
 and destroys by suffocation.
 Most particularly though, the Florin/Guilder Fire Swamp was used to frighten children. There was not a
 child in either country that at one time or another was not, when misbehaving very badly, threatened with
 abandonment in the Fire Swamp. 
re going to the Fire Swamp" is as common
 as "Clean your plate; people are starving in China." And so, as children grew, so did the danger of the
 Fire Swamp in their enlarging imaginations. No one, of course, ever actually went into the Fire Swamp,
 although, every year or so, a diseased R.O.U.S. might wander out to die, and its discovery would only
 add to the myth and the horror. The largest known fire swamp is, of course, within a day
You cannot ask it of me,
I must.
I once dreamed I would die here.
So did I, so did we all. Were you eight that year? I was.
Eight. Six. I can't remember.
Must we?
Why?
Now is not the time.
Child; sweet child. I have a knife. I have my sword. I did not come across
 the world to lose you now.
Did they actually go in?
no,
Do you think we should follow them?
They'll either live or die in there. If they die, I have no wish to join them. If
 they live, I'll greet them on the other side.
It's too far around,
Not for my whites.
We'll follow as best we can,
He must be very
 desperate, or very frightened, or very stupid, or very brave.
Very all four I should think,
t
 that bad. The odor of the escaping gases, which at first seemed almost totally punishing, soon diminished
 through familiarity. The sudden bursts of flame were easily avoided because, just before they struck,
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (104 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 there was a deep kind of popping sound clearly coming from the vicinity where the flames would then
 appear.
 Westley carried his sword in his right hand, his long knife in his left, waiting for the first R.O.U.S., but
 none appeared. He had cut a very long piece of strong vine and coiled it over one shoulder and was busy
 working on it as they moved. "What we
ve got this properly done is," he told her, moving
 steadily on beneath the giant trees, "we
ll be close. Actually, I think that
m almost disappointed; this place is bad, all right, but it
t you agree?"
 Buttercup wanted to, totally, and she would have too; only by then, the Snow Sand had her.
 Westley turned only in time to see her disappear.
 Buttercup had simply let her attention wander for a moment, the ground seemed solid enough, and she
 had no idea what Snow Sand looked like anyway; but once her front foot began to sink in, she could not
 pull back, and even before she could scream, she was gone. It was like falling through a cloud. The sand
 was the finest in the world, and there was no bulk to it whatsoever, and, at first, no unpleasantness. She
 was just falling, gently, through this soft powdery mass, falling farther and farther from anything
 resembling life, but she could not allow herself to panic. Westley had instructed her on how to behave if
 this happened, and she followed his words now: she spread her arms and spread her fingers and forced
 herself into the position resembling that of a dead-man
s ears were now caked with Snow
 Sand all the way in, and her nose was filled with Snow Sand, both nostrils, and she knew if she opened
 her eyes a million tiny fine bits of Snow Sand would seep behind her eyelids, and now she was beginning
 to panic badly. How long had she been falling? Hours, it seemed, and she was having pain in holding her
 breath. "You must hold it till I find you," he had said; "you must go into a dead-man
ll come get you and we
 Buttercup continued to sink. The weight of the sand began to brutalize her shoulders.
 The small of her back began to ache. It was agony keeping her arms outstretched and her fingers spread
 when it was all so useless. The Snow Sand was heavier and heavier on her now as she sank always down.
 And was it bottomless, as they thought when they were children? Did you just sink forever until the sand
 ate away at you and then did your poor bones continue the trip forever down? No, surely there had to
 somewhere be a resting place. A resting place, Buttercup thought. What a wonderful thing. I'm so tired,
 so tired, and I want to rest, and, 
 she screamed. Or started to. Because in order
 to scream you had to open your mouth, so all she really got out was the first sound of the first word:
 
 After that the Snow Sand was down into her throat and she was done.
 Westley had made a terrific start. Before she had even entirely disappeared, he had dropped his sword
 and long knife and had gotten the vine coil from his shoulder. It took him next to no time to knot one end
 around a giant tree, and, holding tight to the free end, he simply dove headlong into the Snow Sand,
 kicking his feet as he sank, for greater speed. There was no question in his mind of failure. He knew he
 would find her and he knew she would be upset and hysterical and possibly even brain tumbled. But
 alive. And that was, in the end, the only fact of lasting import. The Snow Sand had his ears and nose
 blocked, and he hoped she had not panicked, had remembered to spread-eagle her body, so that he could
 catch her quickly with his headlong dive. If she remembered, it wouldn't be that hardthe same, really, as
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (105 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 rescuing a drowning swimmer in murky water. They floated slowly down, you dove straight down, you
 kicked, you pulled with your free arm, you gained on them, you grabbed them, you brought them to the
 surface, and the only real problem then would be convincing your grandchildren that such a thing had
 actually happened and was not just another family fable. He was still concerning his mind with the
 infants yet unborn when something happened he had not counted on: the vine was not long enough. He
 hung suspended for a moment, holding to the end of it as it stretched straight up through the Snow Sand
 to the security of the giant tree. To release the vine was truly madness. There was no possibility of
 forcing your body all the way back up to the surface. A few feet of ascension was possible if you kicked
 wildly, but no more. So if he let go of the vine and did not find her within a finger snap, it was all up for
 both of them. Westley let go of the vine without a qualm, because he had come too far to fail now; failure
 was not even a problem to be considered. Down he sank then and within a finger snap he had his hand
 around her wrist. Westley screamed then himself, in horror and surprise, and the Snow Sand gouged at
 his throat, for what he had grabbed was a skeleton wrist, bone only, no flesh left at all. That happened in
 Snow Sand. Once the skeleton was picked clean, it would begin, often, to float, like seaweed in a quiet
 tide, shifting this way and that, sometimes surfacing, more often just journeying through the Snow Sand
 for eternity. Westley threw the wrist away and reached out blindly with both hands now, scrabbling
 wildly to touch some part of her, because failure was not a problem; failure is not a problem, he told
 himself; it is not a problem to be considered, so forget failure; just keep busy and find her, and he found
 her. Her foot, more precisely, and he pulled it to him and then his arm was around her perfect waist and
 he began to kick, kick with any strength left, needing now to rise the few yards to the end of the vine.
 The idea that it might be difficult finding a single vine strand in a small sea of Snow Sand never bothered
 him. Failure was not a problem; he would simply have to kick and when he had kicked hard enough he
 would rise and when he had risen enough he would reach out for the vine and when he reached out it
 would be there and when it was there he would tie her to it and with his last breath he would pull them
 both up to life.
 Which is exactly what happened.
 She remained unconscious for a very long time. Westley busied himself as best he could, cleansing the
 Snow Sand from ears and nose and mouth and, most delicate of all, from beneath the lids of her eyes.
 The length of her quietness disturbed him vaguely; it was almost as if she knew she had died and was
 afraid to find out for a fact that it was true. He held her in his arms, rocked her slowly. Eventually she
 was blinking.
 For a time she looked around and around. 
 she managed finally.
 
re a hardy breed."
 "What a wonderful surprise."
 "No need" He was going to say "No need for worry," but her panic struck too quickly. It was a normal
 enough reaction, and he did not try to block it but, rather, held her firmly and let the hysteria run its
 course. She shuddered for a time as if she fully intended to fly apart. But that was the worst. From there,
 it was but a few minutes to quiet sobbing. Then she was Buttercup again.
 Westley stood, buckled on his sword, replaced his long knife. "Come," he said. "We have far to go."
 "Not until you tell me," she replied. "Why must we endure this?"
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (106 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 "Now is not the time." Westley held out his hand.
 "It is the time." She stayed where she was, on the ground.
 Westley sighed. She meant it. "All right," he said finally. "I

 Buttercup waited.
 
 Westley began, 
 Once he had
 started talking, Buttercup stood, following close behind him as he went on. 

 
 Buttercup prompted.
 

 
 Buttercup said. 

 
 Westley said. 

 

 
s a little more than that," Westley said. "I don
s true. You see, I am the Dread Pirate Roberts."
 "I fail to see how that is possible, since he has been marauding for twenty years and you only left me
 three years ago."
 "I myself am often surprised at life
 Westley admitted.
 

 
s Pride, and we were all to be put to
 death."
 "But Roberts did not kill you."
 "Clearly."
 "Why?"
 "I cannot say for sure, but I think it is because I asked him please not to. The 
 I suspect, aroused
 his interest. I didn
Why should I make an exception of you?
I doubt that she is as beautiful as you imagine,
Hair the
 color of autumn,
and skin like wintry cream.
Wintry cream, eh?
ll tell you. Westley,
I feel genuinely sorry about this, but if I
 make an exception in your case, news will get out that the Dread Pirate Roberts has gone soft and that
 will mark the beginning of my downfall, for once they stop fearing you, piracy becomes nothing but
 work, work, work all the time, and I am far too old for such a life.
I swear I will never tell, not even my
 beloved,
and if you will let me live, I will be your personal valet and slave for five full years, and
 if I ever once complain or cause you anger, you may chop my head off then and there and I will die with
 praise for your fairness on my lips.
Go below,
ll most likely kill
 you tomorrow.
 Westley stopped talking for a moment, and pretended to clear his throat, because he had
 spotted the first R.O.U.S. following behind them. There seemed no need yet to alert her, so he just
 continued to clear his throat and hurry along between the flame bursts. 

 Buttercup urged. 
 
d already trained myself to work twenty hours a day. I decided to learn what I could
 about piracy in the time left allotted me, since it would at least keep my mind off my coming slaughter.
 So I helped the cook and I cleaned the hold and, in general, did whatever was asked of me, hoping that
 my energies might be favorably noted by the Dread Pirate Roberts himself. 
ve come to kill you,
s been most fascinating; I
 and he said 
 and I said, That no one had
 ever explained to your cook the difference between table salt and cayenne pepper.
Things have been a
 bit fiery this trip,
Go on, what else?
Very well, you can
 be my valet for a day. I
t like it, so I
 Every night for the next year he always said something like that to me: Thank you for
 everything, Westley, good night now, I

 "By the end of that year, of course, we were more than valet and master. He was a pudgy little man, not
 at all fierce, as you would expect the Dread Pirate Roberts to be, and I like to think he was as fond of me
 as I of him. By then, I had learned really quite a great deal about sailing and hand fighting and fencing
 and throwing the long knife and had never been in as excellent physical condition. At the end of one
 year, my Captain said to me, 
 and I said, 
 and he said, 
t you?
t even have to bother answering
 that. 
ll be rich and back you go,
Your men have been
 with you for years and they aren
 and he said, 
s because they are not the captain. I am going
 to retire soon, Westley, and the Revenge will be yours.
 There was now another R.O.U.S. following them. Flanking them as they moved.
 Buttercup saw them now. 

 
s all right. I

 
 Buttercup said. 

 Westley dodged a sudden burst of flame, shielded Buttercup from the heat. 
Westley, the
 next ship is yours; let
 That afternoon we spotted a fat Spanish beauty, loaded for
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (108 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Madrid. I sailed up close. They were in a panic. 
 their Captain cried. 
 I told him.
 
 he answered, and with that they opened fire.
 "Disaster. They had no fear of me at all. I was so flustered I did everything wrong, and soon they got
 away. I was, do I have to add, disheartened. Roberts called me to his cabin. I slunk in like a whipped boy.
 
 he told me, and then he closed the door and we were quite alone. 
 I of course said I would. 
 he said, 
 I confessed my confusion. 
s really very simple,
After several years, the original Roberts was so rich he wanted to retire. Clooney was his friend and first
 mate, so he gave the ship to Clooney, who had an identical experience to yours: the first ship he
 attempted to board nearly blew him out of the water. So Roberts, realizing the name was the thing that
 inspired the necessary fear, sailed the Revenge to port, changed crews entirely, and Clooney told
 everyone he was the Dread Pirate Roberts, and who was to know he was not? When Clooney retired rich,
 he passed the name to Cummberbund, Cummberbund to me, and I, Felix Raymond Ryan, of Boodle,
 outside Liverpool, now dub thee, Westley, the Dread Pirate Roberts. All we need is to land, take on some
 new young pirates. I will sail along for a few days as Ryan, your first mate, and will tell everyone about
 my years with you, the Dread Pirate Roberts. Then you will let me off when they are all believers, and
 the waters of the world are yours.
 Westley smiled at Buttercup. 

 

 

 

 
re together, hand in hand, in love."
 "Oh yes," Buttercup said. "I keep forgetting that."
 Both her words and her tone were a trifle standoffish, something Westley surely would have noticed had
 not a R.O.U.S. attacked him from the tree branch, sinking its giant teeth into his unprotected shoulder,
 forcing him to earth in a very unexpected spurt of blood. The other two that had been following launched
 their attack then too, ignoring Buttercup, driving forward with all their hungry strength to Westley
s wound. Their enormous front teeth tore at the
 unprotected flesh of his left shoulder, and he had no idea if Buttercup was already half devoured; he only
 knew that if he didn
Hurry!
Bandages,
 bandages,
Make me some bandages or we die,
They're like sharks, blood creatures; it's blood they thrive on.
We must stop my bleeding and we must cover the wound so they do not smell it. If they don't
 smell the blood, we'll survive. If they do, we're for it, so help me, please.
We'll know soon enough,
If they charge, they smell it,
Come,
s sword flashed, and the nearest rat was bleeding. The other three contented
 themselves with that for a while.
 Westley took Buttercup
How bad are you?
I am in something close to agony but we can talk about that later. Hurry now.
We took too long in crossing. The fault is mine.
I accept your surrender,
s hand. "No one is surrendering," he said.
 "You
 the Prince replied. 
t make yourself a fool."
 "What is so foolish about winning?" Westley wanted to know. "It

 
 said the Prince, and he gestured out to sea. Half the Armada had begun to give
 chase to the great ship Revenge. And the Revenge, alone, was sailing, as it had to do, away. 

 the Prince said.
 

 
 the Prince shouted.
 
 Westley roared.
 
 Buttercup whispered.
 
 the Prince said.
 
 Westley said.
 Buttercup took a step forward and said, 

 Prince Humperdinck raised his right hand: 

 Buttercup turned to Westley. 
 she said. 
t ask for more than that, and that is the truth."
 "The truth," said Westley, "is that you would rather live with your Prince than die with your love."
 "I would rather live than die, I admit it."
 "We were talking of love, madam." There was a long pause. Then Buttercup said it:
 "I can live without love."
 And with that she left Westley alone.
 Prince Humperdinck watched her as she began the long cross to him. "When we are out of sight," he said
 to Count Rugen, "take that man in black and put him in the fifth level of the Zoo of Death."
 The Count nodded. "For a moment, I believed you when you swore."
 "I spoke truth; I never lie," the Prince replied. "I said I would not hurt him. But I never for a moment said
 he would not suffer pain. You will do the actual tormenting; I will only spectate." He opened his arms
 then for his Princess.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (111 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 "He belongs to the ship Revenge," Buttercup said. "He is" she began, about to tell Westley
a simple sailor and I have known him since I was a child. Will you arrange
 that?
Must I swear again?
No need,
Come along, my Princess.
Come, sir.
We must get you safely to your ship.
We are both men of action,
Lies do not become us.
Well spoken,
s right hand; it was
 six-fingered, and Westley could never quite remember having encountered that deformity before. . . .
 Six
 THE FESTIVITIES
 This is one of those chapters again where Professor Bongiorno, of Columbia, the Florinese guru, claims
 that Morgenstern
s the way this guy talks: 

 
on and on.)
 This festivities chapter is mostly detailed descriptions of guess what? Bingo! The festivities. It
do
s not worth going through forty-four pages for, is that Prince
 Humperdinck gets more and more interested and mannerly toward Buttercup, cutting down even a little
 on his hunting activities. And, more important, because of the foiling of the kidnapping attempt, three
 things happen: (1) everyone is pretty well convinced that the plot was engineered by Guilder, so relations
 between the countries are more than a little strained; (2) Buttercup is just adored by everybody because
 the rumors are all over that she acted very brave and even came through the Fire Swamp alive and (3)
 Prince Humperdinck is, at last, in his own land, a hero. He was never popular, what with his hunting
 fetish and leaving the country to kind of rot once his old man got senile, but the way he foiled the
 kidnapping made everybody realize that this was some brave fella and they were lucky to have him next
 in line to lead them.
 Anyhow, these forty-four pages cover just about the first month of party giving. And it
s late, the end of
 another long party, and as she waits for sleep, she wonders what sea Westley is riding on, and the giant
 and the Spaniard, whatever happened to them? So eventually, in three quick flashbacks, Morgenstern
 returns to what I think is the story.
 When Inigo regained consciousness, it was still night on the Cliffs of Insanity. Far below, the waters of
 Florin Channel pounded. Inigo stirred, blinked, tried to rub his eyes, couldn
Fool, fool, back to the beginning is the rule.
d know it to look at him? He looked like a skinny Spanish guy it
 might be fun to rob. You couldn
Be careful, this is the greatest fencer
 since the death of the Wizard of Corsica. Do not burgle.
t that great a fencer, not any more, he couldn
t
 he just been beaten? Once, true, he had been a titan, but now, now
 What happens here that you aren
s previous book had gotten bombed by the critics and also hadn
s first book of poems didn
t
 buy it at her local bookstore. Have you ever heard anything more humiliating? How would you like to
 have been Browning and it
ll be
 somebody, Established, Important. And you give it a week before you ask the publisher how things are
 going, because you don
re Browning and you chitchat around a
 bit, before you drop the biggie: 
 And
 then his editor, who has been dreading this moment, probably says, 
s taking off like it used to, requires a bit of time for the word to get around.
 
None, Bob. Sorry, Bob, no, we haven
t quite work out. Sorry, Bob; of course we
 End
 of Aside.)
 Anyway, Inigo finishes his speech to the Cliffs and spends the next few hours finding a fisherman who
 sails him back to Florin City.
 The Thieves Quarter was worse than he remembered. Always, before, Fezzik had been with him, and
 they made rhymes, and Fezzik was enough to keep any thief away.
 Inigo moved panicked up the dark streets, desperately afraid. Why this giant fear? What was he afraid
 of?
 He sat on a filthy stoop and pondered. Around him there were cries in the night and, from the alehouses,
 vulgar laughter. He was afraid, he realized then, because as he sat there, gripping the six-fingered sword
 for confidence, he was suddenly back to what he had been before Vizzini had found him.
 A failure.
 A man without point, with no attachment to tomorrow. Inigo had not touched brandy in years. Now he
 felt his fingers fumbling for money. Now he heard his footsteps running toward the nearest alehouse.
 Now he saw his money on the counter. Now he felt the brandy bottle in his hands.
 Back to the stoop he ran. He opened the bottle. He smelled the rough brandy. He took a sip. He coughed.
 He took a swallow. He coughed again. He gulped it down and coughed and gulped some more and half
 began a smile.
 His fears were starting to leave him.
 After all, why should he have ever been afraid? He was Inigo Montoya (the bottle was half gone now),
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (114 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 son of the great Domingo Montoya, so what was there in the world worth fearing? (Now all the brandy
 was gone.) How dare fear approach a wizard such as Inigo Montoya? Well, never again. (Into the second
 bottle.) Never never never never again.
 He sat alone and confident and strong. His life was straight and fine. He had money enough for brandy,
 and if you had that, you had the world.
 The stoop was wretched and bleak. Inigo slumped there, quite contented, clutching the bottle in his
 once-trembling hands. Existence was really very simple when you did what you were told. And nothing
 could be simpler or better than what he had in store.
 All he had to do was wait and drink until Vizzini came. . . .
 Fezzik had no idea how long he was unconscious. He only knew, as he staggered to his feet on the
 mountain path, that his throat was very sore where the man in black had strangled him.
 What to do?
 The plans had all gone wrong. Fezzik closed his eyes, trying to thinkthere was a proper place to go when
 plans went wrong, but he couldn
t forget, and now, even with that, he was so stupid he had forgotten. Was that it? Was it "Stupid,
 stupid, go and wait for Vizzini with Cupid"? That rhymed, but where was the Cupid? "Dummy, dummy,
 go out now and fill your tummy." That rhymed too, but what kind of instructions were those?
 What to do, what to do?
 "Dunce, dunce, use your brains and do it right for once"? No help. Nothing was any help. He never had
 done anything right, not in his whole life, until Vizzini came, and without another thought, Fezzik ran off
 into the night after the Sicilian.
 Vizzini was napping when he got there. He had been drinking wine and dozed off. Fezzik dropped to his
 knees and put his hands in prayer position. "Vizzini I
 he began.
 Vizzini napped on.
 Fezzik shook him gently.
 Vizzini did not wake.
 Not so gently this time.
 Nothing.
 
re dead," Fezzik said. He stood up. "He
 he said softly. And then, with
 not a bit of help from his brain, a great scream of panic burst from his throat into the night: 
 and
 he whirled back down the mountain path, because if Inigo was alive, it would be all right; it wouldn't be
 the same, no, it could never be that without Vizzini to order them and insult them as only he could, but at
 least there would be time for poetry, and when Fezzik reached the Cliffs of Insanity he said, 
 to the rocks and 
m here, Inigo; it
 to the trees and 
 all over until there was no other conclusion to draw but that just as there was
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (115 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 now no Vizzini, so there was also no Inigo, and that was hard.
 It was, in point of fact, too hard for Fezzik, so he began to run, crying out, 
 and 
 and 
 (wait up, straight up which was the way
 he ran, and wouldn't there be fun with rhymes once he and Inigo were together again), but after an hour
 or so of shouting his throat gave out because he had, after all, been strangled almost to death in the very
 recent past. On he ran, on and on and on until finally he reached a tiny village and found, just outside
 town, some nice rocks that formed kind of a cave, almost big enough for him to stretch out in. He sat
 with his back against a rock and his hands around his knees and his throat hurting until the village boys
 found him. They held their breath and crept as close as they dared. Fezzik hoped they would go away, so
 he froze, pretending to be off with Inigo and Inigo would say 
 and Fezzik right quick would come
 back 
 and maybe they would sing a little something until Inigo said 
 and you couldn't
 stump Fezzik with one that easy because of 
 and then Inigo would make a word about the
 weather and Fezzik would rhyme it and that was how it went until the village boys stopped being afraid
 of him. Fezzik could tell that because they were creeping very close to him now and all of a sudden
 yelling their lungs out and making crazy faces. He didn't really blame them; he looked like the kind of
 person you did that to, mocked. His clothes were torn and his throat was gone and his eyes were wild and
 he probably would have yelled too if he'd been their age.
 It was only when they found him funny that he found it, though he did not know the word, degrading. No
 more yelling. Just laughter now. Laughter, Fezzik thought, and then he thought giraffeter, because that's
 all he was to them, some huge funny thing that couldn't make much noise. Laughter, giraffeter, from now
 to hereafter.
 Fezzik huddled up in his cave and tried looking on the bright side. At least they weren't throwing things
 at him.
 Not yet, anyway.
 Westley awoke chained in a giant cage. His shoulder was beginning to fester from the gnawing and
 digging that the R.O.U.S.s had done into his flesh. He ignored his discomfort, momentarily, to try and
 adjust to his surroundings.
 He was certainly underground. It was not the lack of windows that made that sure; more the dankness.
 From somewhere above him now, he could hear animal sounds: an occasional lion roar, the yelp of the
 cheetah.
 Shortly after his return to consciousness, the albino appeared, bloodless, with skin as pale as dying birch.
 The candlelight that served to illuminate the cage made the albino seem totally like a creature who had
 never seen the sun. The albino held a tray which carried many things, bandages and food, healing
 powders and brandy.
 
 from Westley.
 A shrug from the albino.
 

 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (116 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Shrug.
 That was almost the entire extent of the fellow's conversation. Westley asked question after question
 while the albino tended and redressed his wound, then fed him food that was warm and surprisingly good
 and plentiful.
 Shrug.
 Shrug.
 
m here?"
 Shrug.
 "Lie, but tell me somethinggive an answer. Who knows I

 Whispered: 

 

 Shrug.
 

 Nod.
 

 Nod.
 

 Shake. Whispered: 

 
re dead, that
re saying?"
 Shrug.
 "Am I to die then?"
 Shrug.
 Westley lay back on the floor of the giant underground cage watching as the albino silently reloaded the
 tray, glided from sight. If the soldiers were dead, surely it was not unreasonable to assume that he would
 eventually follow. But if they wanted his erasure, surely it was also not unreasonable to assume that they
 had not the least intention of doing it immediately, else why tend his wounds, why return his strength
 with good warm food? No, his death would be a while yet. But in the meantime, considering the
 personalities of his captors, it was finally not unreasonable to assume that they would do their best to
 make him suffer.
 Greatly.
 Westley closed his eyes. There was pain coming and he had to be ready for it. He had to prepare his
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (117 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 brain, he had to get his mind controlled and safe from their efforts, so that they could not break him. He
 would not let them break him. He would hold together against anything and all. If only they gave him
 sufficient time to make ready, he knew he could defeat pain. It turned out they gave him sufficient time
 (it was months before the Machine was ready).
 But they broke him anyway.
 At the end of the thirtieth day of festivities, with sixty days more of partying to enjoy, Buttercup was
 genuinely concerned that she might lack the strength to endure. Smile, smile, hold hands, bow and thank,
 over and over. She was simply exhausted from one month; how was she to survive twice that?
 It turned out, because of the King
t every day a country had a five hundredth
 anniversarybut all the festivities were either curtailed entirely or vastly cut down. And Prince
 Humperdinck became, forty-five days before the wedding, King of Florin, and that changed everything,
 because, before, he had taken nothing but his hunting seriously, and now he had to learn, learn
 everything, learn to run a country, and he buried himself in books and wise men and how did you tax this
 and when should you tax that and foreign entanglements and who could be trusted and how far and with
 what? And before her lovely eyes, Humperdinck changed from a man of fear and action to one of
 frenzied wisdom, because he had to get it all straight now before any other country dared interfere with
 the future of Florin, so the wedding, when it actually took place, was a tiny thing and brief, sandwiched
 in between a ministers
t until King
 Humperdinck walked out on the balcony with her to greet the gigantic throng that had spent the day in
 patient waiting that she realized it had happened, she was the queen, her life, for whatever it was worth,
 belonged now to the people.
 They stood together on the castle balcony, accepting the cheers, the cries, the endless thunderous "hip
 hips," until Buttercup said, "Please, may I walk once more among them?" and the King said with a nod
 that she might and down she went again, as on the day of the wedding announcement, radiant and alone,
 and again the people swept apart to let her pass, weeping and cheering and bowing and
 and then one person booed.
 On the balcony watching it all Humperdinck reacted instantly, gesturing soldiers into the area where the
 sound had come from, dispatching more troops quickly down to surround the Queen, and like clockwork
 Buttercup was safe, the booer apprehended and led away.
 "Hold a moment," Buttercup said, still shaken by the unexpectedness of what had happened. The soldier
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (118 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 who held the booer stopped. "Bring her to me," Buttercup said, and in a moment the booer was right
 there, eye to eye.
 It was an ancient woman, withered and bent, and Buttercup thought of all the faces that had gone by in
 her lifetime, but this one she could not remember. "Have we met?" the Queen asked.
 The old one shook her head.
 "Then why? Why on this day? Why do you insult the Queen?"
 "Because you are not worthy of cheers," the old woman said, and suddenly she was yelling. "You had
 love in your hands and you gave it up for gold!" She turned to the crowd. "It is true what I tell youthere
 was love alongside her in the Fire Swamp and she dropped it from her fingers like garbage, and that is
 what she is, the Queen of Garbage."
 "I had given my word to the Prince" Buttercup began, but the old woman would not be quieted.
 "Ask her how she got through the Fire Swamp? Ask her if she did it alone? She threw love away to be the
 Queen of Grime, the Queen of MuckI am old and life means nothing to me, so I am the only person in all
 this crowd to dare to tell truth, and truth says bow to the Queen of Feculence if you want to, but not I.
 Cheer the Queen of Slime and Ordure if you want to, but not I. Rave over the beauty of the Queen of
 Cesspools, but not I. Not I!" She was advancing on Buttercup now.
 "Take her away," Buttercup ordered.
 But the soldiers could not stop her, and the old woman kept coming on, her voice getting louder and
 louder and Louder! and LOUDER! and LOUDER and LOUDER! and
 Buttercup woke up screaming.
 She was in her bed. Alone. Safe. The wedding was still sixty days away.
 But her nightmares had begun.
 The next night she dreamed of giving birth to their first child and
 Interruption, and hey, how about giving old Morgenstern credit for a major league fake-out there. I mean,
 didn
s one of my biggest memories of my father reading. I had pneumonia, remember, but I was a little
 better now, and madly caught up in the book, and one thing you know when you
s gonna be a happy ending. They can sweat all they want to scare you, the authors, but back
 of it all you know, you just have no doubt, that in the long run justice is going to win out. And Westley
 and Buttercupwell, they had their troubles, sure, but they were going to get married and live happily ever
 after. I would have bet the family fortune if I
 meeting and the treasury whatever, I said, 

 My father
t challenge
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (119 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 a guy who has trouble reading and say he
s really threatening.
 
m doing the reading,
t marry that rotten Humperdinck. She marries Westley.
It says right here,
You must have skipped a page then. Something. Get it right, huh?'
 By now he was more than a tiny bit upset. I skipped nothing. I read the words. The words are there, I
 read them, good night,' and off he went.
 'Hey please, no,' I called after him, but he's stubborn, and, next thing, my mother was in saying, 'Your
 father says his throat is too sore; I told him not to read so much,' and she tucked and fluffed me and no
 matter how I battled, it was over. No more story till the next day.
 I spent that whole night thinking Buttercup married Humperdinck. It just rocked me. How can I explain
 it, but the world didn't work that way. Good got attracted to good, evil you flushed down the John and
 that was that. But their marriageI couldn't make it jibe. God, did I work at it. First I thought that
 probably Buttercup had this fantastic effect on Humperdinck and turned him into a kind of Westley, or
 maybe Westley and Humperdinck turned out to be long-lost brothers and Humperdinck was so happy to
 get his brother back he said, 
t realize who you were when I married her so what
 I
ll divorce her and you marry her and that way we
 To this day I don
t take. Something was wrong and I couldn
s
 still inside me lurking as I write this now.
 The next night, when my father went back to reading and the marriage turned out to have been
 Buttercup
 and my father said, 
re happy now,
 it
 and I said 
 and he did.
 But I wasn
soul,
t need the plug, seeing, like I said, as she
re not being perfect parents, pick up one of Edith
s still
 time. I knew her 
t tell anybody. It was too embarrassing
 barber
t ask me how,
 but eventually Edith discovered my shhhhhh ambition and from then on, sometimes, we would talk. And
 I remember once we were having iced tea on the Neisser porch and talking and just outside the porch was
 their badminton court and I was watching some kids play badminton and Ed had just shellacked me, and
 as I left the court for the porch, he said, 
t worry, it
ll get me next time
And if you don
ll beat me at something else.
t put it down when
 she said, 
s not necessarily true, you know,
How do you mean?
s when she put her book down. And looked at me. And said it: 
t fair, Bill. We tell our
 children that it is, but it
s not only a lie, it
s never going to be.
s head? 
t!
You
s not
 fair.
d known how to dance, I
Isn
t it just
 terrific?
t.
 And that
s about. All those Columbia experts can spiel all they want about the
 delicious satire; they
life isn
 and I
s not gonna nab Miss Rheingold. And he
ll still be fat and he
s my fault maybemake it all my fault, if you wantthe point is, we
t fair. I got a cold wife; she
s stimulating, she
s
 no love; that
t keep expecting everything to somehow even out for us
 before we die.
 Look. (Grownups skip this paragraph.) I
s a lot of bad stuff coming up,
 torture you
s worse. There
t Curious George Uses the Potty.
 Nobody warned me and it was my own fault (you
m not letting it happen to you. The wrong people die, some of them, and the reason is this: life is not
 fair. Forget all the garbage your parents put out. Remember Morgenstern. You
I'm sorry it wasn't a boy; I know you need an heir,
Beloved
 sweet, don't concern yourself with that; just look at the glorious child God has given us
Your milk is sour
Oh, I'm sorry,
No, this is sour
 too,
I don't know what to do
You always know what to do,
 you always know exactly what to do, you always do exactly what's right for you, and the rest of the
 world can go hang,
You mean Westley
Of course I mean
 Westley,
I thought he was dead, you see; I'd given my word to your
 father
I'm dying now; there's no love in your milk, your milk has killed me
s hands to nothing but dry dust and Buttercup
 screamed and screamed; even when she was awake again, with fifty-nine days to go till her marriage, she
 was still screaming.
 The third nightmare came quickly the following evening, and again it was a babythis time a son, a
 marvelous strong boyand Humperdinck said, "Beloved, it
 and Buttercup said, 
t fail you,
 thank heavens" and then he was gone and Buttercup called out, "May I see my son now" and all the
 doctors scurried around outside her royal room, but the boy was not brought in. "What seems to be the
 trouble?" Buttercup called out and the chief doctor said, "I don
t want to
 see you" and Buttercup said, "Tell him I am his mother and I am the Queen and I command his presence"
 and then he was there, just as handsome a baby boy as anyone could wish for. "Close it," Buttercup said,
 and the doctors closed the door. The baby stood in the corner as far from her bed as he could. "Come
 here, darling," Buttercup said. "Why? Are you going to kill me too?" "I
ve never killed anybody." "You killed Westley, did you see his face in the Fire
 Swamp? When you walked away and left him? That
 
re older, you
m not going to tell you againcome here." "Murderer," the baby shouted.
 "Murderer!" but by then she was out of bed and she had him in her arms and was saying, "Stop that, stop
 it this instant; I love you," and he said, "Your love is poison; it kills," and he died in her arms and she
 started to cry. Even when she was awake again, with fifty-eight days to go till her marriage, she was still
 crying.
 The next night she simply refused to go to sleep. Instead, she walked and read and did needlework and
 drank cup after cup of steaming tea from the Indies. She felt sick with weariness, of course, but such was
 her fear of what she might dream that she preferred any waking discomfort to whatever sleep might have
 to offer, and at dawn her mother was pregnantno, more than pregnant; her mother was having a babyand
 as Buttercup stood there in the corner of the room, she watched herself being born and her father gasped
 at her beauty and so did her mother and the midwife was the first to show concern. The midwife was a
 sweet woman, known throughout the village for her love of babies, and she said, "Looktrouble" and the
 father said, "What trouble? Where before did you ever see such beauty?" and the midwife said, "Don
s because she has no heart, here, listen; the baby is
 alive but there is no beat" and she held Buttercup
s ear and the father could only
 nod and say, "We must find a miracle man to place a heart inside" but the midwife said, "That would be
 wrong, I think; I
re both still young, to have
 another child, a different child, and be rid of this one now, but, of course, the final decision is up to you"
 and the father said to the mother, "Well?" and the mother said, "Since the midwife is the kindest person
 in the village, she must know a monster when she sees one; let
 so Buttercup's father and
 Buttercup's mother put their hands to the baby's throat and the baby began to gasp. Even when Buttercup
 was awake again, at dawn, with fifty-seven days to go till her marriage, she could not stop gasping.
 From then on, the nightmares became simply too frightening.
 When there were fifty days to go, Buttercup knocked, one night, on the door to Prince Humperdinck's
 chambers. She entered when he bid her to. 
 he said. 
 And so she did.
 Beautiful, of course. Still that. But in no way well.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (122 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:02 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Buttercup did not see quite how to begin.
 He ushered her into a chair. He got her water. She sipped at it, staring dead ahead. He put the glass to one
 side.
 
 he said.
 
 Buttercup began. 
Kill me.

 The Prince was literally stunned.
 After a long moment, he knelt by Buttercup's chair and, in his gentlest voice, started to speak: 

 

 

 Buttercup wanted almost to weep with gratitude. She said: 
 Then she stood. 
s settled. Our wedding is off."
 He stood too. "Except for perhaps one thing."
 "That being?"
 "Have you considered the possibility that he might not now want any longer to marry you?"
 Until that moment, she had not.
 "You were, I hate to remind you, not altogether gentle with his emotions in the Fire Swamp. Forgive me
 for saying that, beloved, but you did leave him in the lurch, in a manner of speaking."
 Buttercup sat down hard, her turn now to be stunned.
 Humperdinck knelt again beside her. "This Westley of yours, this sailor boy; he has pride?"
 Buttercup managed to whisper, "More than any man alive, I sometimes think."
 "Well consider, then, dearest. Here he is, off sailing somewhere with the Dread Pirate Roberts; he has
 had a month to survive the emotional scars you dealt him. What if he wants now to remain single? Or,
 worse, what if he has found another?"
 Buttercup was now even beyond whispering.
 "I think, sweetest child, that we should strike a bargain, you and I: if Westley wants to marry you still,
 bless you both. If, for reasons unpleasant to mention, his pride will not let him, then you will marry me,
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (123 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 as planned, and be the Queen of Florin,"
 "He couldn
m sure. Not my Westley." She looked at the Prince. "But how can I find out?"
 "What about this: you write him a letter, telling him everything. We
ll take my four
 fastest ships and order them off in all directions. The Dread Pirate Roberts is not often more than a
 month
no,
yes,

 
m not sure but I definitely think, that this is the most generous decision I have yet heard."
 "Do me this favor then in return: until we know Westley

 
 Buttercup said, going to the door, but not before she kissed his cheek.
 He followed her. 
 and he returned the kiss, smiling with his
 eyes at her until the corridor curved her from his sight. There was no doubt whatsoever in his mind that
 he was going to seem too fond of her in the days ahead. Because when she died of murder on their
 wedding night, it was crucial that all Florin realize the depth of his love, the epochal size of his loss,
 since then no one would dare hesitate to follow him in the revenge war he was to launch against Guilder.
 At first, when he hired the Sicilian, he was convinced it was best that someone else do her in, all the
 while making it appear the work of soldiers from Guilder. And when the man in black had somehow
 materialized to spoil his plans, the Prince came close to going insane with rage. But now his basically
 optimistic nature had reasserted itself: everything always worked out for the best. The people were
 infatuated with Buttercup now as they had never been before her kidnapping. And when he announced
 from his castle balcony that she had been murderedhe already saw the scene in his mind: he would arrive
 just too late to save her from strangling but soon enough to see the Guilderian soldiers leaping from the
 window of his bedroom to the soft ground belowwhen he made that speech to the masses on the five
 hundredth anniversary of his country, well, there wouldn't be a dry eye in the Square. And although he
 was just the least bit perturbed, since he had never actually killed a woman before with his bare hands,
 there was a first time for everything. Besides, if you wanted something done right, you did it yourself.
 That night, they began to torture Westley. Count Rugen did the actual pain inducing; the Prince simply
 sat by, asking questions out loud, inwardly admiring the Count's skill.
 The Count really cared about pain. The whys behind the screams interested him fully as much as the
 anguish itself. And whereas the Prince spent his life in physically following the hunt, Count Rugen read
 and studied anything he could get his hands on dealing with the subject of Distress.
 
 the Prince said to Westley, who lay in the great fifth-level cage; 

 
 Westley replied, and in truth he had none. Oh, he might have preferred being
 unchained a bit now and then, but if you were to be a captive, you couldn't ask for more than he had been
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (124 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 given. The albino's medical ministrations had been precise, and his shoulder was fine again; the food the
 albino brought had always been hot and nourishing, the wine and brandy wonderfully warming against
 the dankness of the underground cage.
 
 the Prince went on.
 

 
ll loose the Count on you."
 "I have nothing to hide," Westley said. "Ask away."
 "Who hired you to kidnap the Princess? It was someone from Guilder. We found fabric indicating as
 much on the Princess
s name and you are free. Speak."
 "No one hired me," Westley said. "I was working strictly freelance. And I didn

 

 

 The Count set fire to Westley's hands. Nothing permanent or disabling; he just dipped Westley's hands in
 oil and brought a candle close enough to set things bubbling. When Westley had screamed 
 a sufficient number of times, the Count dipped Westley's hands in
 water, and he and the Prince left via the underground entrance, leaving the medication to the albino, who
 was always nearby during the torturing times, but never visible enough to be distracting.
 
 the Count said as he and the Prince began to ascend the underground staircase.
 
s a perfect question. He was telling the truth, clearly; we both know that."
 The Prince nodded. The Count was privy to all his innermost plans for the revenge war.
 "I
 the Count went on. 

 
 said the Prince.
 
re wrong," said the Count.
 Actually, they were both wrong; Westley suffered not at all throughout. His screaming was totally a
 performance to please them; he had been practicing his defenses for a month now, and he was more than
 ready. The minute the Count brought the candle close, Westley raised his eyes to the ceiling, dropped his
 eyelids over them, and in a state of deep and steady concentration, he took his brain away. Buttercup was
 what he thought of. Her autumn hair, her perfect skin, and he brought her very close beside him, and had
 her whisper in his ear throughout the burning: "I love you. I love you. I only left you in the Fire Swamp
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (125 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 to test your love for me. Is it as great as mine for you? Can two such loves exist on one planet at one
 time? Is there that much room, beloved Westley? . . ."
 The albino bandaged his fingers.
 Westley lay still.
 For the first time, the albino started things. Whispered: "You better tell them."
 From Westley, a shrug.
 Whispered: "They never stop. Not once they start. Tell them what they want to know and have done with
 it."
 Shrug.
 Whispered: "The Machine is nearly ready. They are testing it on animals now."
 Shrug.
 Whispered: "It

 
re going to kill me anyway."
 From the albino: nod.
 The Prince found Buttercup waiting unhappily outside his chamber doors.
 "It
 she began. 

 
 the Prince said gently. 
 She sat down in the same chair as
 before. 
ll close my eyes and listen; read to me."
 " 
 " She looked at Humperdinck. "Well? Do you think I

 
 the Prince admitted. 
t leave him a great deal of room to
 maneuver."
 "Will you help me to improve it, please?"
 "I

 
 she replied. 
 She looked at the Prince. 

 
t do?"
 Buttercup thought for a while. "It
s nothing he can
s more that he can do it
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (126 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 all better than anybody else can do it."
 The Prince chuckled and smiled. "In other words, for example, you mean if he wanted to hunt, he could
 outhunt, again for example, someone such as myself."
 "Oh, I would think if he wanted to, he could, quite easily, but he happens not to like hunting, at least to
 my knowledge, though maybe he does; I don

 
t we just begin our letter with 
 and appeal to his sense of modesty," the
 Prince suggested.
 Buttercup began to write, stopped. "Does 
 begin de or di?"
 "Di, I believe, amazing creature," the Prince replied, smiling gently as Buttercup commenced the letter.
 They composed it in four hours, and many many times she said, "I could never get through this without
 you" and the Prince was always most modest, asking little helpful personal questions about Westley as
 often as was possible without drawing attention to it, and in this way, well before dawn, she told him,
 smiling as she remembered, of Westley
Tell me the name of
 the man in Guilder who hired you to kidnap the Princess and I promise you immediate freedom
No one, no one; I was alone
s skin and Westley closed his eyes
 and begged and pleaded and after an hour or so the Prince and Count left, the albino remaining behind
 with the chore of burning the Spinners and then pulling them free from Westley, lest they accidentally
 poison him, and on the way up the underground stairs to ground level the Prince said, just for
 conversation
Much better, don't you think?
I wonder where could Westley be? What could be taking him so
 long? How can I live until he comes?
s discomforts, which made Westley writhe and twist, were really
 sort of all right. The Prince would manage an hour or so of spectating before he and the Count would
 leave, the Count still oddly silent. And down below, tending the wounds, the albino would whisper: "Tell
 them. Please. They will only add to your suffering."
 Westley could barely suppress his smile.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (127 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 He had felt no pain, not once, none. He had closed his eyes and taken his brain away. That was the secret.
 If you could take your brain away from the present and send it to where it could contemplate skin like
 wintry cream; well, let them enjoy themselves.
 His revenge time would come.
 Westley was living now most of all for Buttercup. But there was no denying that there was one more
 thing he wanted too.
 His time . . .
 Prince Humperdinck simply had no time. There seemed to be not one decision in all of Florin that one
 way or another didn
t forgetMorgenstern was just edging into the nightmare sequence,
 so don
s first cousin, and together they formed the only pair of nonnobles the
 Prince could come close to trusting.)
 "Your Highness," Yellin said. He was small, but crafty, with darting eyes and slippery hands.
 Prince Humperdinck came out from behind his desk. He moved close to Yellin and looked carefully
 around before saying, softly, "I have heard, from unimpeachable sources, that many men of Guilder
 have, of late, begun to infiltrate our Thieves Quarter. They are disguised as Florinese, and I am worried."
 "I have heard nothing of such a thing," Yellin said.
 "A prince has spies everywhere."
 "I understand," said Yellin. "And you think, since the evidence points that they tried to kidnap your
 fiance once, such a thing might happen again?"
 "It

 
ll close off the Thieves Quarter then," Yellin said. "No one will enter and no one will leave."
 "Not good enough," said the Prince. "I want the Thieves Quarter emptied and every villain jailed until I
 am safely on my honeymoon." Yellin did not nod quickly enough, so the Prince said, "State your
 problem."
 "My men are not always too happy at the thought of entering the Thieves Quarter. Many of the thieves
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (128 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 resist change."
 "Root them out. Form a brute squad. But get it done."
 "It takes at least a week to get a decent brute squad going," Yellin said. "But that is time enough." He
 bowed, and started to leave.
 And that was when the scream began.
 Yellin had heard many things in his life, but nothing quite so eerie as this: he was a brave man, but this
 sound frightened him. It was not human, but he could not guess the throat of the beast it came from. (It
 was actually a wild dog, on the first level of the Zoo, but no wild dog had ever shrieked like that before.
 But then, no wild dog had ever been put in the Machine.)
 The sound grew in anguish, and it filled the night sky as it spread across the castle grounds, over the
 walls, even into the Great Square beyond.
 It would not stop. It simply hung now below the sky, an audible reminder of the existence of agony. In
 the Great Square, half a dozen children screamed back at the night, trying to blot out the sound. Some
 wept, some only ran for home.
 Then it began to lessen in volume. Now it was hard to hear in the Great Square, now it was gone. Now it
 was hard to hear on the castle walls, now it was gone from the castle walls. It shrunk across the grounds
 toward the first level of the Zoo of Death, where Count Rugen sat fiddling with some knobs. The wild
 dog died. Count Rugen rose, and it was all he could do to bury his own shriek of triumph.
 He left the Zoo and ran toward Prince Humperdinck
The Machine,
works.
s skills. As an inventor, he had,
 obviously, at last, rid the Machine of all defects. As an architect, he had been crucial in the safety factors
 involved in the Zoo of Death, and it had undeniably been Rugen who had arranged for the only
 survivable entrance being the underground fifth level one. He was also supportive to the Prince in all
 endeavors of hunting and battle, and you didn
Get away, boy, you
 bother me.
Look, Ty,
I'm just thrilled you smoothed all the bugs out of the Machine; I never for a
 minute doubted you'd get it right eventually. And I'm really anxious as can be to see it working. But how
 can I put this? I can't keep my head above water one minute to the next: it's not just the parties and the
 goo-gooing with what's-her-name, I've got to decide how long the Five Hundredth Anniversary Parade is
 going to be and where does it start and when does it start and which nobleman gets to march in front of
 which other nobleman so that everyone's still speaking to me at the end of it, plus I've got a wife to
 murder and a country to frame for it, plus I've got to get the war going once that's all happened, and all
 this is stuff I've got to do myself. Here's what it all comes down to: I'm just swamped, Ty. So how about
 if you go to work on Westley and tell me how it goes, and when I get the time, I'll come watch and I'm
 sure it'll be just wonderful, but for now, what I'd like is a little breathing room, no hard feelings?
None.
t any. He always felt better when he could dole out pain
 alone. You could concentrate much more deeply when you were alone with agony.
 "I knew you

 There was a knock on the door and Buttercup stuck her head in. 
 she said.
 The Prince smiled at her and sadly shook his head. 

 
s only twelve days, though."
 "Plenty of time, dulcet darling, now don

 
ll leave you," Buttercup said.
 "I was going too," the Count said. "May I walk you to your quarters?"
 Buttercup nodded, and down the corridors they wandered till they reached her suite. "Good night,"
 Buttercup said quickly; ever since that day he had first come to her father
I'm sure he'll come,
s plans, and Buttercup was well
 aware of this. "I don

 Buttercup nodded.
 
 the Count went on, his voice warm and lulling. 

 
 Buttercup answered, opening her chamber door. 
 And with that she closed the Count away and, alone, went to her bed and knelt. Westley, she
 thought then. Do come please; I have begged you in my thoughts now these many weeks and still no
 word. Back when we were on the farm, I thought I loved you, but that was not love. When I saw your
 face behind the mask on the ravine floor, I thought I loved you, but that was again nothing more than
 deep infatuation. Beloved: I think I love you now, and I pray you only give me the chance to spend my
 life in constant proving. I could spend my life in the Fire Swamp and sing from morn till night if you
 were by me. I could spend eternity sinking down through Snow Sand if my hand held your hand. My
 preference would be to last eternity with you beside me on a cloud, but hell would also be a lark if
 Westley was with me. . . .
 She went on that way, silent hour after silent hour; she had done nothing else for thirty-eight evenings
 now, and each time, her ardor deepened, her thoughts became more pure. Westley. Westley. Flying
 across the seven seas to claim her.
 For his part, and quite without knowing, Westley was spending his evenings in much the same fashion.
 After the torture was done, when the albino had finished tending his slashes or burns or breaks, when he
 was alone in the giant cage, he sent his brain to Buttercup, and there it dwelled.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (130 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 He understood her so well. In his mind, he realized that moment he left her on the farm when she swore
 love, certainly she meant it, but she was barely eighteen. What did she know of the depth of the heart?
 Then again, when he had removed his black mask and she had tumbled to him, surprise had been
 operating, stunned astonishment as much as emotion. But just as he knew that the sun was obliged to rise
 each morning in the east, no matter how much a western arisal might have pleased it, so he knew that
 Buttercup was obliged to spend her love on him. Gold was inviting, and so was royalty, but they could
 not match the fever in his heart, and sooner or later she would have to catch it. She had less choice than
 the sun.
 So when the Count appeared with the Machine, Westley was not particularly perturbed. As a matter of
 fact, he had no idea what the Count was bringing with him into the giant cage. As a matter of absolute
 fact, the Count was bringing nothing; it was the albino who was doing the actual work, making trip after
 trip with thing after thing.
 That was what it really looked like to Westley: things. Little soft rimmed cups of various sizes and a
 wheel, most likely, and another object that could turn out to be either a lever or a stick; it was hard to tell.
 
 the Count began.
 He had never, to Westley's memory, shown such excitement. Westley made a very weak nod in return.
 Actually, he felt about as well as ever, but it didn't do to let that kind of news get around.
 
 the Count asked.
 Westley made another feeble nod.
 The albino scurried in and out, bringing more things: wirelike extensions, stringy and endless.
 
 the Count said finally.
 Nod.
 Gone.
 
 the Count said when they were alone. 
ve spent eleven years constructing it. As
 you can tell, I

 Westley managed an affirmative blink.
 
ll be putting it together for a while." And with that, he got busy.
 Westley watched the construction with a good deal of interest and, logically enough, curiosity.
 "You heard that scream a bit earlier on this evening?"
 Another affirmative blink.
 "That was a wild dog. This machine caused the sound." It was a very complex job the Count was doing,
 but the six fingers on his right hand never for a moment seemed in doubt as to just what to do. "I
 the Count said, 
m sure you
ve written, of course, for the more learned journals on the subject. Articles mostly. At the
 present I

 Westley found the whole thing fascinating. He made a little groan.
 
 the Count said. 
as
 important as life and death
as important as pain and
 death.
 The Count fell silent for a time then, as he began and completed a series of complex adjustments.
 
 he said somewhat later, 
m going to demonstrate to you what I mean: I will not, underline not, use the Machine on
 you this evening. I could. It
 He tightened some things here, loosened some more over there, tugged and
 patted and shaped.
 The Machine looked so silly Westley was tempted to giggle. Instead, he groaned again.
 
ll leave you to your imagination, then," the Count said, and he looked at Westley. "But I want you to
 know one thing before tomorrow night happens to you, and I mean it: you are the strongest, the most
 brilliant and brave, the most altogether worthy creature it has ever been my privilege to meet, and I feel
 almost sad that, for the purposes of my book and future pain scholars, I must destroy you."
 "Thank . . . you . . ." Westley breathed softly.
 The Count went to the cage door and said over his shoulder, "And you can stop all your performing
 about how weak and beaten you are; you haven
re practically as strong now
 as on the day you entered the Fire Swamp. I know your secret, if that

 
 Hushed, strained.
 
ve been taking your brain away," the Count cried. "You haven
re off, probably with I don
ll be able to. Anticipation, remember?" With a
 wave, he mounted the underground stairs.
 Westley could feel the sudden pressure of his heart.
 Soon the albino came, knelt by Westley
I've been watching you all these days. You
 deserve better than what's coming. I'm needed. No one else feeds the beasts as I do. I'm safe. They won't
 hurt me. I'll kill you if you'd like. That would foil them. I've got some good poison. I beg you. I've seen
 the Machine. I was there when the wild dog screamed. Please let me kill you. You'll thank me, I swear.
I must live.
But
They will not reach me. I am all right. I am fine. I am alive, and I will stay that way.
Well, could you sleep?
Quite honestly, no,
I'm glad you're being honest with me; I'll be honest with you; no more charades between us,
I must carefully track your
 reactions,
In the name of science?
If my experiments are valid, my name will last beyond my body. It's immortality I'm
 after, to be quite honest.
I suppose you're naturally curious as
 to how this works.
I have spent the night pondering and I know no more than when I started. It appears to be a great
 conglomeration of soft rimmed cups of infinitely varied sizes, together with a wheel and a dial and a
 lever, and what it does is beyond me.
Also glue,
To keep the cups attached.
s skin. "Eventually I
 the Count said, 
ll save that for
 last in case you have any questions."
 "This certainly isn

 
ll be able to fix that in later models," the Count said; "at least those are my present plans," and he kept
 right on putting cup after cup on Westley
So
 much for the outside,
This next is a bit more delicate; try not to move.
I'm chained hand, head and foot,
How much movement do you think I'm capable of?
Are you really as brave as you sound, or are you a little frightened? The truth, please. This is for
 posterity, remember.
I'm a little frightened,
s nostrils, against his eardrums, under his eyelids,
 above and below his tongue, and before the Count arose, Westley was covered inside and out with the
 things. "Now all I do," the Count said very loudly, hoping Westley could hear, "is get the wheel going to
 its fastest spin so that I have more than enough power to operate. And the dial can be set from one to
 twenty and, this being the first time, I will set it at the lowest setting, which is one. And then all I need do
 is push the lever forward, and we should, if I haven

 But Westley, as the lever moved, took his brain away, and when the Machine began, Westley was
 stroking her autumn-colored hair and touching her skin of wintry cream andandand then his world
 explodedbecause the cups, the cups were everywhere, and before, they had punished his body but left his
 brain, only not the Machine; the Machine reached everywherehis eyes were not his to control and his
 ears could not hear her gentle loving whisper and his brain slid away, slid far from love into the deep
 fault of despair, hit hard, fell again, down through the house of agony into the county of pain. Inside and
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (133 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 out, Westley's world was ripping apart and he could do nothing but crack along with it.
 The Count turned off the Machine then, and as he picked up his notebooks he said, 
s all this is, except instead of
 water, I
ve just sucked away one year of your life. Later I
ve just endured, so please be specific in your answers. Tell me now, honestly: how do you feel?"
 In humiliation, and suffering, and frustration, and anger, and anguish so great it was dizzying, Westley
 cried like a baby.
 "Interesting," said the Count, and carefully noted it down.
 It took Yellin a week to get his enforcers together in sufficient number, together with an adequate brute
 squad. And so, five days before the wedding, he stood at the head of his company awaiting the speech of
 the Prince. This was in the castle courtyard, and when the Prince appeared, the Count was, as usual, with
 him, although, not as usual, the Count seemed preoccupied. Which, of course, he was, though Yellin had
 no way of knowing that. The Count had sucked ten years from Westley this past week, and, with the life
 of sixty-five that was average for a Florinese male, the victim had approximately thirty years remaining,
 assuming he was about twenty-five when they started experimenting. But how best to go about dividing
 that? The Count was simply in a quandary. So many possibilities, but which would prove, scientifically,
 most interesting? The Count sighed; life was never easy.
 "You are here," the Prince began, "because there may be another plot against my beloved. I charge each
 and every one of you with being her personal protector. I want the Thieves Quarter empty and all the
 inhabitants jailed twenty-four hours before my wedding. Only then will I rest easy. Gentlemen, I beg
 you: think of this mission as being an affair of the heart, and I know you will not fail." With that he
 pivoted and, followed by the Count, hurried from the courtyard, leaving Yellin in command.
 The conquest of the Thieves Quarter began immediately. Yellin worked long and hard at it each day, but
 the Thieves Quarter was a mile square, so there was much to do. Most of the criminals had been through
 unjust and illegal round-ups before, so they offered little resistance. They knew the jails were not celled
 enough for all of them, so if it meant a few days
s Alehouse, first sending all save two Brutes off on various tasks,
 keeping a noisy one and a quiet one for his own needs. He knocked on Falkbridge
t a crime of any dimension he wasn
s house and gave him a satchel full of money.
 "Who?" Falkbridge called from inside the alehouse.
 "The Chief of All Enforcement in Florin City, accompanied by Brutes," Yellin replied. Completeness
 was one of his virtues.
 "Oh." Falkbridge opened the door. For a power, he was very unimposing, short and chubby. "Come in."
 Yellin entered, leaving the two Brutes in the doorway. "Get ready and be quick," Yellin said.
 "Hey, Yellin, it
 Falkbridge said softly.
 
 Yellin said softly right back. 

 
ll stay in the alehouse, I promise. I got enough food; no one will ever know."
 "The Prince is without mercy," Yellin said. "If I let you stay and I
s it for me."
 "I been paying you twenty years to stay out of jail. You
t have to go to jail.
 Where

 
ll make it up to you. I
t you trust me?"
 "How can I trust a man I pay twenty years to stay out of jail when all of a sudden, the minute a little extra
 pressure
go to jail
m not going."
 "You!" Yellin signaled to the noisy one.
 The Brute started running forward.
 "Put this man in the wagon immediately," Yellin said.
 Falkbridge was starting to explain when the noisy one clubbed him across the neck.
 "Not so hard!" Yellin cried.
 The noisy one picked up Falkbridge, tried dusting his clothes.
 "Is he alive?" Yellin asked.
 "See, I didn

 
 Yellin interrupted and, upset, he hurried out of the alehouse while the noisy one brought
 Falkbridge. 
 Yellin asked as various Brutes were visible leaving the Thieves
 Quarter pulling various wagons.
 
s still the fencer with the brandy," the noisy one began. "See, they tried getting him out
 yesterday but"
 "I can
m an important man, get him out of here and do it now, both of you;
 take the wagon with you, and be quick! This quarter must be locked and deserted by sundown or the
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (135 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Prince will be mad at me, and I don

 
re going, we
 the noisy one replied, and he hurried off, letting the quiet one bring the
 wagon with Falkbridge inside. 

 The quiet one hurried along behind, dragging the wagon. They rounded a corner, and from around
 another corner just up ahead, a kind of drunken mumbling was starting to get louder.
 
m getting very bored, Vizzini" came from out of sight. "Three months is a long time to wait, especially
 for a passionate Spaniard." Much louder now:"And I am very passionate, Vizzini, and you are nothing but
 a tardy Sicilian. So if you
m done with you. You hear? Done!" Much
 softer now: "I didn

 The noisy Brute slowed. 

 The quiet one pushed the wagon almost to the corner and stopped it. 
 the noisy
 one added, and then whispered, 
 With that he walked alone around the corner and
 stared ahead at the skinny fellow sitting clutching the brandy bottle on the stoop. 
 the
 noisy one said.
 
m not moving; keep your 
" said the brandy drinker.
 "Hear me through, please: I have been sent by Prince Humperdinck himself, who is in need of
 entertainment. Tomorrow is our country
m here: yesterday, some of my friends tried
 rousting you and they said, later, that you resisted with some splendid swordwork. So, if you would like,
 I, at great personal sacrifice, will rush you to the fencing contest, where, if you are as good as I am told,
 you might have yet the honor of entertaining the Royal Couple tomorrow. Do you think you could win
 such a competition?"
 "Breezing."
 "Then hurry while there

 The Spaniard managed to stand. He unsheathed his sword and flashed it a few times across the morning.
 The noisy one took a few quick steps backward and said, 

 Then the drunk started yelling: 
mwaitingforVizzini"
 "Meanie."
 "I
mjustfollowingtherule"
 "Cruel."
 "Notcruel, notmean; can
m . . ." and here his voice trailed off for a moment as he
 squinted. Then, quietly, he said, "Fezzik?"
 From behind the noisy one, the quiet one said, "Who says-ik?"
 Inigo took a step from his stoop, trying desperately to make his eyes focus through the brandy."
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (136 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 
? Is that a joke you made?"
 The quiet one said, "Played."
 Inigo gave a cry and started staggering forward: "Fezzik, it

 
 And he reached out, grabbed Inigo just before he stumbled, brought him back to an upright
 position.
 
 the noisy Brute said, and he moved in quickly, right arm raised, as he had done
 to Falkbridge.
 S
   P
      L
         A
            T
               !
 Fezzik dumped the noisy Brute into the wagon beside Falkbridge, covered them both with a soiled
 blanket, then hurried back to Inigo, whom he had left leaning propped against a building.
 
s just so good to see you," Fezzik said then.
 "Oh, it is . . . it . . . is, but . . ." Inigo
I'm too weak for surprises
s house.
 He carried Inigo inside, placed him upstairs on Falkbridge
s house. He made some tea, carried it upstairs,
 force-fed Inigo. Within a few moments, Inigo was blinking under his own power.
 "It
 Fezzik said then.
 
 Inigo agreed, 
m sorry for fainting, but I have done nothing for ninety days but wait
 for Vizzini and drink brandy, and a surprise like seeing you, well, that was just too much for me on an
 empty stomach. But I

 
 Fezzik said. 

 
 and then he fainted again.
 Fezzik began berating himself. 
s a right way and a wrong way, trust you to find
 the dumb way; fool, fool, back to the beginning was the rule." Fezzik really felt idiotic then because,
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (137 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 after months of forgetting, now that he didn
Rest.
Thank you, my friend; no more fainting.
s kitchen. He really didn
t too great a
 task to finally end up with something that once looked like roast beef and another thing that could have
 been a potato.
 The unexpected smell of hot food brought Inigo around, and he lay in bed, eating every bite Fezzik fed
 him. "I never realized I was in such terrible condition," Inigo said, chewing away.
 "Shhh, you
 Fezzik said, cutting another piece of meat, putting it into Inigo's mouth.
 Inigo chewed it carefully down. 

 
 Fezzik began to cut another piece of meat.
 
 Inigo said, taking the next bite, chewing away.
 
ll be as strong as ever by sundown," Fezzik promised, getting the next piece of meat ready. "The
 six-fingered man is named Count Rugen and he

 
 Inigo managed this time before he fainted again.
 Fezzik stood over the still figure. 
 he said, 
s been such a long time
 and I

 Inigo only lay there.
 Fezzik hurried to Falkbridge's tub and plugged it up and after a lot of work he got it filled with steaming
 water and then he dunked Inigo in, holding him down with one hand, holding Inigo's mouth shut with the
 other, and when the brandy began to sweat from the Spaniard's body, Fezzik emptied the tub and filled it
 again, with icy water this time, and back he plunged Inigo, and when that water began to warm a bit back
 he filled the tub with steaming stuff and back went Inigo and now the brandy was really oozing from his
 pores and that was how it went, hour after hour, hot to icy cold to steaming hot and then some tea and
 then some toast and then some steaming hot again and more icy cold and then a nap and then more toast
 and less tea but the longest steamer yet and this time there wasn't much brandy left inside and one final
 icy cold and then a two-hour sleep until by midafternoon, they sat downstairs in Falkbridge's kitchen, and
 now, at last, for the first time in ninety days, Inigo's eyes were almost bright. His hands did shake, but not
 all that noticeably, and perhaps the Inigo of before the brandy would have bested this fellow now in sixty
 minutes of solid fencing. But not too many other masters in the world would have survived for five.
 
ve been here with the brandy, you have been where?"
 "Well, I spent some time in a fishing village and then I wandered a bit, and then a few weeks ago I found
 myself in Guilder and the talk there was of the coming wedding and perhaps a coming war and I
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (138 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 remembered Buttercup when I carried her up the Cliffs of Insanity; she was so pretty and soft and I had
 never been so near perfume before that I thought it might be nice to see her wedding celebrations, so I
 came here, but my money was gone, and then they were forming a brute squad and needed giants and I
 went to apply and they beat me with clubs to see if I was strong enough and when the clubs broke they
 decided I was. I
s very good pay."
 Inigo nodded. "All right, again, and this time please be brief, from the beginning: the man in black. Did
 he get by you?"
 "Yes. Fairly too. Strength against strength. I was too slow and out of practice."
 "Then it was he that killed Vizzini?"
 "That is my belief."
 "Did he use his sword or his strength?"
 Fezzik tried to remember. "There weren
t seem broken. There were
 just these two goblets and Vizzini dead. Poison is my guess."
 "Why would Vizzini take poison?"
 Fezzik hadn
But he was definitely dead?
All right, Vizzini is dead, enough of that. Tell me briefly where the six-fingered Rugen is so I may kill
 him.
That may not be so easy, Inigo, because the Count is with the Prince, and the Prince is in his castle, and
 he is pledged not to leave it till after his wedding, for he fears another sneak attack from Guilder, and all
 the entrances but the main one are sealed for safety and the main doors are guarded by twenty men.
Hmmm,
If you fought five and I fenced five, that would mean ten gone,
 which would be bad because that would also mean ten left and they would kill us. But,
if you should take six and I took eight, that would mean fourteen beaten,
 which would not be as bad but still bad enough, since the six remaining would kill us.
How many could you handle at the most?
Well, some of them are from the Brute Squad, so I don't think more than eight.
Leaving me twelve, which is not impossible, but not the best way to spend your first evening after three
 months on brandy.
s body sagged and in his eyes, bright a moment ago, now there
 was moisture.
 "What has happened?" Fezzik cried.
 "Oh, my friend, my friend, I need Vizzini. I am not a planner. I follow. Tell me what to do and no man
 alive does it better. But my mind is like fine wine; it travels badly. I go from thought to thought but not
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (139 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 with logic, and I forget things, and help me, Fezzik, what am I to do?"
 Fezzik wanted to cry now too. "I
t
 remember to come back here even after you made up that special lovely rhyme for me."
 "I need Vizzini."
 "But Vizzini is dead."
 And then Inigo was up again, blazing about the kitchen, and for the first time his fingers were snapping
 with excitement: "I don

 

 

 

 

 

 
s saddle. Vizzini did it because he was under
 orders to do it. Someone wanted Guilder to look guilty and who but a noble would want that and what
 noble more than the war-loving Prince himself? We never knew who hired Vizzini. I guess
 Humperdinck. And as for the Count
s whereabouts, since the Count is the
 same man who slaughtered my father, we can rest assured that he is certainly a terrific fellow." He started
 for the door. "Come. We have much to do."
 Fezzik followed him through the darkening streets of the Thieves Quarter. "You
 Fezzik asked.
 
ll explain them to you now. . . ." His bladelike body knifed on through the quiet streets, Fezzik
 hurrying alongside, "(a) I need to reach Count Rugen to at last avenge my father; (b) I cannot plan on
 how to reach Count Rugen; (c) Vizzini could have planned it for me but, (c prime) Vizzini is unavailable;
 however, (d) the man in black outplanned Vizzini, so, therefore, (e) the man in black can get me to Count
 Rugen."
 "But I told you, Prince Humperdinck, after he captured him, gave orders for all to hear that the man in
 black was to be returned safely to his ship. Everyone in Florin knows this to be so."
 "(a) Prince Humperdinck had some plans to kill his fiance and hired us to carry them out but (b) the
 man in black ruined Prince Humperdinck
 They had reached the Thieves
 Quarter wall now. Inigo jumped on Fezzik's shoulders and Fezzik started to climb. 

 Inigo continued, not missing a beat, 

 Fezzik reached the top of the wall and started carefully climbing down the other side. 
 he said.
 
t matter, since what you mean is, you
m glad to see you because no more loneliness."
 "That
 said Fezzik.
 It was dusk when they began their search blindly through all of Florin City. Dusk, a day before the
 wedding. Count Rugen was about to begin his nightly experiments at that dusk, gathering up his
 notebooks from his room, filled with all his jottings. Five levels underground, behind high castle walls,
 locked and chained and silent, Westley waited beside the Machine. In a way, he still looked like Westley,
 except, of course, that he had been broken. Twenty years of his life had been sucked away. Twenty were
 left. Pain was anticipation. Soon the Count would come again. Against any wishes he had left, Westley
 went on crying.
 It was dusk when Buttercup went to see the Prince. She knocked loudly, waited, knocked again. She
 could hear him shouting inside, and if it had not been so important, she would never have knocked the
 third time, but she did, and the door was yanked open, and the look of anger on his face immediately
 changed to the sweetest smile. 
 he said. 
 And he
 turned back to Yellin. 

 Yellin shook his head.
 

 Yellin shook his head again. The Prince was driving him crazy with his stories of the Guilder infiltration.
 Yellin had every spy he'd ever used working day and night and not one of them had come up with
 anything about Guilder. And yet the Prince insisted. Inwardly, Yellin sighed. It was beyond him; he was
 simply an enforcer, not a prince. In fact, the only remotely disturbing news he'd heard since he'd closed
 the Thieves Quarter that morning was within the hour, when someone told him of a rumor that the ship of
 the Dread Pirate Roberts had perhaps been seen sailing all the way into Florin Channel itself. But such a
 thing, Yellin knew from long experience, was, simply, rumor.
 
ll tell you, they are everywhere, these Guilders," the Prince went on. "And since you seem unable to
 stop them, I wish to change some plans. All the gates have been sealed to my castle except the front one,
 yes?"
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (141 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 "Yes. And twenty men guard it."
 "Add eighty more. I want a hundred men. Clear?"
 "A hundred men it will be. Every Brute available."
 "Inside the castle I

 
 Buttercup corrected.
 He blinked at her a moment in silence. Then he said, blowing her a kiss, but discreetly, so Yellin couldn't
 see, 
 He turned back to Yellin.
 But in his blink, in that following silence, Buttercup had seen it all.
 
s anything else." The Prince loved giving orders,
 especially the kind he knew would never need carrying out. Also, Yellin was a slow jotter, and that only
 added to the fun. "Excused," the Prince said finally.
 With a bow, Yellin was gone.
 "The four ships were never sent," Buttercup said, when they were alone. "Don

 

 

 
re nervous, I
re getting married tomorrow, we

 
t be more wrong, you know; I
 And in truth, she did seem that way. 
t
 matter whether you sent the ships or not. Westley will come for me. There is a God; I know that. And
 there is love; I know that too; so Westley will save me."
 "You

 

 The Prince had to laugh. 

 
m getting much smarter as I age. I say you are a coward and you are; I think you hunt
 only to reassure yourself that you are not what you are: the weakest thing to ever walk the Earth. He will
 come for me and then we will be gone, and you will be helpless for all your hunting, because Westley
 and I are joined by the bond of love and you cannot track that, not with a thousand bloodhounds, and you
 cannot break it, not with a thousand swords."
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (142 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Humperdinck screamed toward her then, ripping at her autumn hair, yanking her from her feet and down
 the long curving corridor to her room, where he tore that door open and threw her inside and locked her
 there and started running for the underground entrance to the Zoo of Death
 My father stopped reading. 
 I said.
 
 he said and I waited there, still weak with pneumonia and wet with fear until he started
 reading again. 
 
 I said. 
s not right, you skipped,
d just had that scene when I got all upset about Buttercup
 marrying Humperdinck when I
t want any repeat of that. 
 I
 said, 
t mean anything or anything, but wasn
t there be a page or like that in
 between?
I
t close it.
It is not for that,
Billy,
t know, I
 just melted), 

 

 
re taking this book very serious, I know, because we already fought once
 about it.
I

 
t want to read you the rest of this
 chapter and I want you to say it

 

 

 I can

 

 
ll tell you if it
t want to hear it, you can skip on
 to Inigo.
But won

 I
re asleep; I don
ll find it and I

 

 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (143 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 I gotcha; you might as well admit it.
Westley dies,
What do you mean, "Westley dies"? You mean dies?
Prince Humperdinck kills him.
He

 My father shook his head, closed the book all the way.
 
 I said and I started to cry.
 
m sorry,
ll leave you alone,
Who gets Humperdinck?
t understand.
Who kills Prince Humperdinck? At the end, somebody

 

 
 and I buried my head in my
 pillow and I never cried like that again, not once to this day. I could feel almost my heart emptying into
 my pillow. I guess the most amazing thing about crying though is that when you
ll go
 on forever but it never really lasts half what you think. Not in terms of real time. In terms of real
 emotions, it
t have
 been even an hour later.
 
 he said, 

 
 I told him. Eyes dry, no catch in throat, nothing. 

 

 
s hear the murder,
t about to bawl again. Like Buttercup
s eyes. The Prince
 moved to Westley. "She loves you," the Prince cried. "She loves you still and you love her, so think of
 thatthink of this too: in all this world, you might have been happy, genuinely happy. Not one couple in a
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (144 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 century has that chance, not really, no matter what the storybooks say, but you could have had it, and so,
 I would think, no one will ever suffer a loss as great as you" and with that he grabbed the dial and pushed
 it all the way forward and the Count cried, "Not to twenty!" but by then it was too late; the death scream
 had started.
 It was much worse than the scream of the wild dog. In the first place, the dial for the wild dog had only
 been set at six, whereas this was more than triple that. And so, naturally enough, it was more than three
 times as long. And more than three times as loud. But none of this really was why it was worse.
 It was the scream from a human throat that made the difference.
 In her chamber, Buttercup heard it, and it frightened her, but she had not the least idea what it was.
 By the main door of the castle, Yellin heard it, and it also frightened him, though he couldn
I don't like that sound,
FezzikFezzikthat is the sound of Ultimate
 SufferingI know that soundthat was the sound in my heart when Count Rugen slaughtered my father
 and I saw him fallthe man in black makes it now
You think that's him?
Who else has cause for Ultimate Suffering this celebration night?
FezzikFezzikwe must
 track that sound, we must trace it to its source, and I cannot move, so you must lead me. Fly, Fezzik; this
 is Inigo begging youmake a pathplease!
s way. Fast.
 The death scream was starting to fade now, fading in the clouds.
 "Fezzik!" said Inigo. "All your power, NOW."
 Down the alley Fezzik ran, people screaming and diving to get out of his way, and in his footsteps Inigo
 kept pace, and at the end of the alley was a street and the scream was fainter now but Fezzik turned left
 and into the middle of the street he went and he owned it, no one was in his way, nothing dared block his
 way, and the scream was getting just so hard to hear, so with all his might Fezzik roared, "QUIET!" and
 the street was suddenly hushed and Fezzik pounded along, Inigo right behind, and the scream was still
 there, still faintly there, and into the Great Square itself and the castle beyond before the scream was
 gone. . . .
 Westley lay dead by the Machine. The Prince kept the dial by the twenty mark long long after it was
 necessary, until the Count said, "Done."
 The Prince left without another look at Westley. He took the secret underground stairs four at a time.
 "She actually called me a coward," he said, and then he was gone from sight.
 Count Rugen started taking notes. Then he threw his quill pen down. He tested Westley briefly, then he
 shook his head. Death was not of any intellectual interest to him at all; when you were dead, you couldn
Dispose of the body,
t see the albino, he
 knew the albino was there. It was really a shame, he realized as he mounted the stairs after the Prince.
 You just didn
t you just know it?
 He finally got the barrow out and was just passing the false and deadly supposed main entrance to the
 Zoo when "I
s own trouble tracking that scream" was spoken to him, and the albino
 whirled to find, there, there in the castle grounds, a blade-thin stranger with a sword in his hand. The
 sword suddenly flicked its way to the albino
Where is the man in black?
I know no man in black.
Did the scream come from that place?
And the throat it came from? I need this man, so be quick!
Westley.
A sailor? Brought here by Rugen?
And I reach him where?
He is on the bottom level. Five
 levels down.
Then I have no more need for you. Quiet him a while, Fezzik.
Why would he
 tell the truth?
He's a zookeeper threatened with death. Why would he lie?
That doesn't follow.
I don't care!
t. He knew in his heart the man in black was down
 there. There was no other reason for Fezzik to find him, for Fezzik to know of Rugen, for everything to
 be coming together after so many years of waiting. If there was a God, then there was a man in black
 waiting. Inigo knew that. He knew it. And, of course, he was absolutely right. But again, of course, there
 were many things he did not know. That the man in black was dead, for one. That the entrance they were
 taking was the wrong one, for another, a false one, set up to foil those, like himself, who did not belong.
 There were spitting cobras down there, though what would actually come at him would be worse. These
 things he did not know either.
 But his father had to be revenged. And the man in black would figure out how. That was enough for
 Inigo.
 And so, with an urgency that would soon turn to deep regret, he and Fezzik approached the Zoo of Death.
 Seven
 THE WEDDING
 Inigo allowed Fezzik to open the door, not because he wished to hide behind the giant
s strength was crucial to their entering: someone would have to force the thick
 door from its hinges, and that was right up Fezzik
It's open,
Open?
Close it then. There must be something wrong. Why would something as
 valuable as the Prince's private zoo be left unlocked?
It smells of animals something awful in there,
Did I get a whiff!
Let me think,
I'll figure it out,
t
 leave diamonds lying around on the breakfast table and you kept the Zoo of Death shut and bolted. So
 there had to be a reason; it was just a matter of exercising your brain power and the answer would be
 there. (The answer to why the door happened to be unlocked was really this: it was always unlocked.
 And the reason for that was really this: safety. No one who had entered via the front door had ever
 survived to exit again. The idea basically belonged to Count Rugen, who helped the Prince architect the
 place. The Prince selected the locationthe farthest corner of the castle grounds, away from everything, so
 the roars wouldn
Yes,
You figured it out?
The reason the door was unlocked is simply this: the albino would have locked it, he would never have
 been so stupid as not to, but, Fezzik, my friend, we got to him before he got to it. Clearly, once he was
 done with his wheelbarrowing, he would have begun locking and bolting. It's quite all right; you can stop
 worrying; let's go.
I just feel so safe with you,
t even have a place for a lock, and he wondered
 should he mention that to Inigo, but decided against it, because Inigo would have to wait and figure some
 more and they had done enough of that already, because, although he said he felt safe with Inigo, in truth
 he was very frightened. He had heard odd things about this place, and lions didn
t very fond of any of them. "Still smells of
 animals," he said, and he held the door open for Inigo, and together, stride for stride, they entered the
 Zoo of Death, the great door shutting silently behind them.
 "Quite a bizarre place," Inigo said, moving past several large cages in which were cheetahs and
 hummingbirds and other swift things. At the end of the hall was another door with a sign above it saying,
 "To Level Two." They opened that door and saw a flight of stairs leading very steeply down. "Careful,"
 Inigo said; "stay close to me and watch your balance."
 They started down toward the second level.
 "If I tell you something, will you promise not to laugh at me or mock me or be mean to me?" Fezzik
 asked.
 "My word," Inigo nodded.
 "I
 Fezzik said.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (148 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 
 Inigo said right back.
 
s a wonderful rhyme"
 "Some other time," Inigo said, making another, feeling quite bright about the whole thing, sensing the
 pleasure in having Fezzik visibly relax as they descended, so he smiled and clapped Fezzik on his great
 shoulder for the good fellow he was. But deep, deep inside, Inigo
We must hurry,
much as we might like to dawdle,
To Level Three.
Hmmm,
Well, I'm certainly glad I wasn't brought up here,
Fear,
Really! If you can't maintain control, I'm going to send you right back up and you can
 just wait there all by yourself.
Don't leave me; I mean, don't make me leave you. Please. I meant to say 'beer'; I don't know how the f
 got in there.
I'm really losing patience with you; come along,
DON'T BE FRIGHTENED!
I'M NOT, I'M NOT!
What
 are we going to do?
S-s-s-simple,
Are you frightened too?
Not . . . remotely,
And before, I meant to say 'easy'; I don't know how the
 's-s-s-s-' got in there. Look: we can't go back and we certainly don't want to stay here, so we just must
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (149 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 keep on going as we were before these little things happened. Down. Down is our direction, Fezzik, but I
 can tell you're a bit edgy about all this, so, out of the goodness of my heart, I will let you walk down not
 behind me, and not in front of me, but right next to me, on the same step, stride for stride, and you put an
 arm around my shoulder, because that will probably make you feel better, and I, so as not to make you
 feel foolish, will put an arm around your shoulder, and thus, safe, protected, together, we will descend.
Will you draw your sword with your free hand?
I already have. Will you make a fist with yours?
It's clenched.
Then let's look on the bright side: we're having an adventure, Fezzik, and most people live and die
 without being as lucky as we are.
Why do you think they locked the door behind us?
To add spice to our trip, I suspect,
Here's where the turn starts,
And they took away the candles for the same reasonspice?
Most likely. Don't squeeze me quite so hard
Don't you squeeze me quite so hard
biggest
s was not only remarkable for its speed and agility, it was also kept
 in a permanent state just verging on the outskirts of starvation, so the first coil came like lightning as it
 dropped from above them and pinioned their hands so the fist and sword were useless and the second coil
 imprisoned their arms and "Do something" Inigo cried.
 "I can
m caughtyou do something"
 "Fight it, Fezzik"
 "It

 

 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (150 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 The third coil was done now, around the upper shoulders, and the fourth coil, the final coil, involved the
 throat, and Inigo whispered in terror, because he could hear the beast's breathing now, could actually feel
 its breath, 
m . . . I

 Fezzik trembled with fear and whispered, 

 

 

 

 

 Silence.
 The fourth coil was finished.
 

 Silence.
 Snake breath.
 

 Fezzik said, and by now he was very frustrated and, more than that, he was spectacularly angry and one
 arm came clear of one coil and that made it a bit less of a chore to fight free of the second coil and that
 meant he could take that arm and bring it to the aid of the other arm and now he was yelling it out,
 
re not going anywhere until I know those rhymes" and the sound of his own voice was really very
 impressive, deep and resonant, and who was this snake anyway, getting in the path of Fezzik when there
 were rhymes to learn, and by this time not only were both arms free of the bottom three coils but he was
 furious at the interruption and his hands grabbed toward the snake breath, and he didn
Actually, I had no specific
 rhymes in mind; I just had to do something to get you into action.
You lied to me is what you're saying. My only friend in all
 my life turns out to be a liar.
To Level Four
I apologize,
One lie in all these years, that's not such a terrible average when you consider
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (151 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 it saved our lives.
There's such a thing as principle
My father made me promise never to lie, and not once in my life have I even been
 tempted,
Stop!
At least examine where we're going.
It can't be as
 bad as where we've been,
Here come the king bats!
HERE COME THE KING BATS!
t want bats in his hair
 either, but it wasn
What's so terrible about king bats
What
Rabies! Rabies!
Down, Fezzik,
t move, so Inigo felt for him in the
 darkness as the fluttering grew louder and with all his strength he slammed the giant on the shoulder
 hollering "Down" and this time Fezzik went to his knees obediently, but that wasn
Flat, flat, all the way down,
Thibault, Thibault is fine if you fight in a ballroom, but what if you meet your enemy on terrain
 that is tilted and you are below him,
And what if your enemy blinds you?
He throws acid in your eyes a nd now he
 drives in for the kill; what do you do? Tell me that, Spaniard, survive that, Spaniard.
Be still!
Come
 on!
s face.
 The six-fingered sword drove through like butter.
 The death sound of the king bat was close to human, only a bit higher pitched and shorter, and Inigo was
 only briefly interested because now there was a double flutter; they were coming at him from two sides
 and one right, one left, and MacPherson told him always move from strength to weakness, so Inigo
 stabbed first to the right, then drove left, and two more almost human sounds came and went. The sword
 was heavy now, three dead beasts changed the balance, and Inigo wanted to clear the weapon, but now
 another flutter, a single one, and no veering this time, straight and deadly for his face and he ducked and
 was lucky; the sword moved up and into the heart of the lethal thing and now there were four skewered
 on the sword of legend, and Inigo knew he was not about to lose this fight and from his throat came the
 words, "I am Inigo Montoya and still the Wizard; come for me," and when he heard three of them
 fluttering, he wished he had been just a bit more modest but it was too late for that, so he needed surprise,
 and he took it, shifting position against the beasts, standing straight, taking their dives long before they
 expected it, and now there were seven king bats and his sword was completely out of balance and that
 would have been a bad thing, a dangerous thing, except for one important aspect: there was silence now
 in the darkness. The fluttering was done.
 "Some giant you are," Inigo said then, and he stepped over Fezzik and hurried down the rest of the
 darkened stairs.
 Fezzik got up and lumbered after him, saying, "Inigo, listen, I made a mistake before, you didn
m not mad at you any more, and is that
 all right with you? It

 They turned the knob on the door at the bottom of the black stairs and stepped onto the fourth level.
 Inigo looked at him. 
ll forgive me completely for saving your life if I completely forgive
 you for saving mine?"
 "You

 
s what we are," Inigo said.
 "Athletic."
 "That
 Inigo said, so Fezzik knew they were fine again. They started toward the sign that
 said, 
 passing strange cages. 
 Inigo said, and then he jumped
 back, because behind a pale glass case, a blood eagle was actually eating what looked like an arm. And
 on the other side there was a great black pool, and whatever was in it was dark and many armed and the
 water seemed to get sucked toward the center of the pool where the mouth of the thing was. 

 Inigo said, and he found himself trembling at the thought of being dropped into the black pool.
 They opened the door and looked down toward the fifth level.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (153 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Stunning.
 In the first place, the door they opened had no lock, so it could not trap them. And in the second place the
 stairs were all brightly lit. And in the third place the stairs were absolutely straight. And in the fourth
 place, it wasn't a long flight at all.
 And in the main place, there was nothing inside. It was bright and clean and totally, without the least
 doubt, empty.
 
t believe it for a minute," Inigo said, and, holding his sword at the ready, he took the first step
 down. "Stay by the door the candles will go out any second."
 He took a second step down.
 The candles stayed bright.
 A third step. The fourth. There were only about a dozen steps in all, and he took two more, stopping in
 the middle. Each step was perhaps a foot in width, so he was six feet from Fezzik, six feet from the large,
 ornate green-handled door that opened onto the final level. "Fezzik?"
 From the upper door: "What?"
 "I

 

 
s supposed to; that
ve gotten by before, this must be worse."
 "But there

 Inigo nodded. 
s why I
 He took another step down toward the final, ornate
 green-handled door. Another. Four steps to go. Four feet to go.
 Forty-eight inches from death.
 Inigo took another step. He was trembling now; almost out of control.
 
 Fezzik from the top.
 
 He took another step down.
 Twenty-four inches to dying.
 

 Inigo shook his head. 

 
s empty."
 "No. Death is here." Now he was out of control. "If I could see it, I could fight it."
 Fezzik didn
I'm Inigo Montoya the Wizard; come for me!
Now you're scaring me,
No.
t destroy as quickly as the stonefish. And many think the mamba brings
 more suffering, what with the ulcerating and all. But gram for gram, nothing in the universe comes close
 to the green speckled recluse; among other spiders, compared with the green speckled recluse, the black
 widow was a rag doll. Prince Humperdinck
s shoulder. "We
s nothing here, Inigo."
 To the fifth step. "There has to be."
 "Why?"
 "Because the Prince is a fiend. And Rugen is his twin in misery. And this is their masterpiece." They
 moved to the fourth step.
 "That
 Fezzik said, loud and calmly; but, inside, he was starting to go to
 pieces. Because here he was, in this nice bright place, and his one friend in all the world was cracking
 from the strain. And if you were Fezzik, and you hadn't much brain power, and you found yourself four
 stories underground in a Zoo of Death looking for a man in black that you really didn't think was down
 there, and the only friend you had in all the world was going quickly mad, what did you do?
 Three steps now.
 If you were Fezzik, you panicked, because if Inigo went mad, that meant the leader of this whole
 expedition was you, and if you were Fezzik, you knew the last thing in the world you could ever be was a
 leader. So Fezzik did what he always did in a panic situation.
 He bolted.
 He just yelled and jumped for the door and slammed it open with his body, never even bothering with the
 niceties of turning that pretty green handle, and as the door gave behind his strength he kept right on
 running until he came to the giant cage and there, inside and still, lay the man in black. Fezzik stopped
 then, relieved greatly, because seeing that silent body meant one thing: Inigo was right, and if Inigo was
 right, he couldn't be crazy, and if he wasn't crazy, then Fezzik didn't have to lead anybody anywhere.
 And when that thought reached his brain, Fezzik smiled.
 Inigo, for his part, was startled at Fezzik's strange behavior. He saw no reason for it whatsoever, and was
 about to call after Fezzik when he saw a tiny green speckled spider scurrying down from the door handle,
 so he stepped on it with his boot as he hurried to the cage.
 Fezzik was already inside the place, kneeling over the body.
 
t say it," Inigo said, entering.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (155 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Fezzik tried not to, but it was on his face. "Dead." Inigo examined the body. He had seen a lot of corpses
 in his time. "Dead." Then he sat down miserably on the floor and put his arms around his knees and
 rocked back and forth like a baby, back and forth, back and forth and back.
 It was too unfair. You expected unfairness if you breathed, but this went beyond that. He, Inigo, no
 thinker, had thoughthadn
I am Inigo Montoya, the son of Domingo Montoya, and I do not accept it.
Come, come along. Bring the
 body.
Have you
 got any money, Fezzik?
Some. They pay well on the Brute Squad.
Well I just hope it's enough to buy a miracle, that's all.
t answer it. "Go away," he almost said,
 because lately it was only kids come to mock him. Except this was a little past the time for kids being up
 it was almost midnightand besides, the knocking was both loud and, at the same time, rat-a-tatty, as if
 the brain was saying to the fist, "Hurry it up; I want to see a little action."
 So Max opened the door a peek
I don't know you.
Aren't you Miracle Max that worked all those years for the King?
I got fired, didn't you hear? That's a painful subject, you shouldn't have brought it up, good night, next
 time learn a little manners,
Get away, I'm telling you, or I call the Brute Squad.
I'm on the Brute Squad,
We need a miracle; it's very important,
I'm retired,
anyway, you wouldn't want someone the King got rid of, would you? I might
 kill whoever you want me to miracle.
He's already dead,
He is, huh?
s worth again. "I

 
 the skinny guy said.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (156 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 
m making no promises," Miracle Max answered after some thought.
 This huge guy and this skinny guy brought in this big guy and put him on the hut floor. Max poked the
 corpse. "Not so stiff as some," he said.
 The skinny guy said, "We have money."
 "Then go get some great genius specialist, why don
 It almost killed him when it happened. For the first two years, he wished it had.
 His teeth fell out from gnashing; he pulled the few loyal tufts from his scalp in wild anger.
 
re the only miracle man left alive in Florin," the skinny guy said.
 "Oh, so that
What
 And the other one
 said, 
s take a flyer on that miracle man the King fired,
What
t kill a corpse

 
 the skinny guy said. 

 
t insult me and say wonderfulI was great I am great there was nevernever, you hear me, sonny, a
 miracle man could match mehalf the miracle techniques I inventedand then they fired me. . . ."
 Suddenly his voice trailed off. He was very old and weak and the effort at passionate speech had drained
 him.
 "Sir, please, sit down" the skinny guy said.
 "Don
sir
 Miracle Max said. He was tough when he was young and he was still tough. 
 and he lifted the hut
 trap door and took the ladder down into the cellar, locking the trap door behind him. When that was
 done, he put his finger to his lips and ran to the old woman cooking hot chocolate over the coals. Max
 had married Valerie back a million years ago, it seemed like, at Miracle School, where she worked as a
 potion ladler. She wasn't, of course, a witch, but when Max started practice, every miracle man had to
 have one, so, since Valerie didn't mind, he called her a witch in public and she learned enough of the
 witch trade to pass herself off as one under pressure. 
 Max whispered, gesturing
 repeatedly toward the hut above. 
ll never guess what I gota giant and a spick."
 "A giant on a stick?" Valerie said, clutching her heart; her hearing wasn
Spick! Spick! A Spanish fella. Scars and everything, a very tough cookie.
Let them steal what they want; what do we have worth fighting over?
They don't want to steal, they want to buy. Me. They got a corpse up there and they want a miracle.
You were always good at dead,
t seen him trying so hard not to seem excited
 since the firing had all but done him in. She very carefully kept her own excitement under control. If only
 he would work again. Her Max was such a genius, they
You had nothing else pressing on for the evening, why not take the
 case?
I could, I admit that, no question, but suppose I did? You know human nature; they'd probably try
 getting out without paying. How can I force a giant to pay if he doesn't want to? Who needs that kinda
 grief? I'll send them on their way and you bring me up a nice cup of chocolate. Besides, I was halfway
 through an article on eagles' claws that was very well written.
Get the money in advance. Go. Demand. If they say no, out with them. If they say yes, bring the money
 down to me, I'll feed it to the frog, they'll never find it even if they change their mind and try to rob it
 back.
What should I ask for? I haven't done a miracleit's what, three years
 now? Prices may have skyrocketed. Fifty, you think? If they got fifty, I'll consider. If not, out they go.
Right,
Sir, we're in a terrible rush, so
Don't you hurry me, sonny, you hurry a miracle man, you get rotten miracles, that what you want?
You'll do it, then?
I didn't say I'd do it, sonny, don't try pressuring a miracle man, not this one; you try pressuring me, out
 you go, how much money you got?
Give me your money Fezzik?
Here's all I've got,
You count it, Inigo.
Sixty-five is what we've got,
I never worked for anything that little in
 my life; you got to be joking, excuse me again; I got to belch my witch; she's done eating by now.
No good,
They only got
 twenty.
We're practically out of chocolate powder; twenty could sure be a help at the barterer's tomorrow.
No chocolate powder?
Maybe if it was a good cause you could lower yourself to work for twenty,
Find out why
 they need the miracle.
They'd probably lie.
Use the bellows cram if you're in doubt. Look: I would hate to have it on my conscience if we didn't do
 a miracle when nice people were involved.
You're a pushy lady,
Okay,
What's
 so special I should bring back out of all the hundreds of people pestering me every day for my miracles
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (158 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 this particular fella? And, believe me, it better be worth while.
So he can tell me how to kill Count Rugen,
t quite sound like the
 kind of thing that would strike a cranky miracle man as aiding the general betterment of mankind, so he
 said, "He
s got fifteen kids, they haven
ll starve, so
 "
 "Oh, sonny, are you a liar," Max said, and he went to the corner and got out a huge bellows. "I
 Max grunted, lifting the bellows toward Westley.
 
s a corpse; he can
 Inigo said.
 
 was all Max would answer, and he stuck the huge bellows way down into Westley's
 throat and started to pump. 
 Max explained as he pumped, 
s different kinds of dead:
 there
s only sort of dead, which means there
s still bits of brain. You apply a little pressure here, a little more there,
 sometimes you get results."
 Westley was beginning to swell slightly now from all the pumping.
 "What are you doing?" Fezzik said, starting to get upset.
 "Never mind, I
t hurting him." He stopped pumping the
 bellows after a few moments more, and then started shouting into Westley
WHAT'S SO
 IMPORTANT? WHAT'S HERE WORTH COMING BACK FOR? WHAT YOU GOT WAITING FOR
 YOU?
It takes a while for
 that to work its way out, so you might as well answer me some questions. How well do you know this
 guy?
t much want to answer that, since it might have sounded strange admitting they
How do you mean exactly?
Well, for example,
was he ticklish or not?
Ticklish?
Ticklish! Life and death are all around and you talk ticklish!
Don't you yell at me,
and don't you mock my methodstickling can be
 terrific in the proper instances. I had a corpse once, worse than this fella, mostly dead he was, and I
 tickled him and tickled him; I tickled his toes and I tickled his armpits and his ribs and I got a peacock
 feather and went after his belly button; I worked all day and I worked all night and the following dawn
 the following dawn, mark me this corpse said, 'I just hate that,' and I said, 'Hate what?' and he said,
 'Being tickled; I've come all the way back from the dead to ask you to stop,' and I said 'You mean this
 that I'm doing now with the peacock feather, it bothers you?' and he said, 'You couldn't guess how much
 it bothers me,' and of course I just kept on asking him questions about tickling, making him talk back to
 me, answer me, because, I don't have to tell you, once you get a corpse really caught up in conversation,
 your battle's half over.
Tr . . ooooo . . . luv . . .
 'True love,' he said,
You heard himtrue love is what he wants to come back for.
 That's certainly worth while.
Sonny, don't you tell me what's worth whiletrue love is the best thing in the world, except for cough
 drops. Everybody knows that.
Then you'll save him?
Yes, absolutely, I would save him, if he had said 'true love,' but you misheard, whereas I, being an
 expert on the bellows cram, will tell you what any qualified tongue man will only be happy to verify
 namely, that the f sound is the hardest for the corpse to master, and that it therefore comes out vuh, and
 what your friend said was 'to blove,' by which he meant, obviously, 'to bluff'clearly he is either involved
 in a shady business deal or a card game and wishes to win, and that is certainly not reason enough for a
 miracle. I'm sorry, I never change my mind once it's made up, good-by, take your corpse with you.
Liar! Liar!
Back, Witch
I'm not a witch, I'm your wife
and after what
 you've just done I don't think I want to be that any more
He said 'true love,' Max
 even I could hear it 'true love,' 'true love.'
Don't go on,
He is rejecting you because he is afraidhe is afraid he's done, that the
 miracles are gone from his once majestic fingers
Not true
You're right,
it isn't truethey never were majestic, Maxyou were never any good.
The Ticklish Cureyou were thereyou saw
A fluke
All the drowners I returned
Chance
Valerie, we've been married eighty years; how can you do this to me?
Because true love is expiring and you haven't got the decency to tell why you won't helpwell I do, and I
 say this, Prince Humperdinck was right to fire you
Don't say that name in my hut, Valerieyou made a pledge to me you'd never breathe that name
Prince Humperdinck, Prince Humperdinck, Prince Humperdinckat least he knows a phony when he
 sees one
But this is his fiance's true love,
If you bring him back to life, he will stop Prince
 Humperdinck's marriage
s hands left his ears. "This corpse herehe comes back to life, Prince Humperdinck suffers?"
 "Humiliations galore," Inigo said.
 "Now that
 Miracle Max said. 
m on the
 case." He knelt beside Westley. "Hmmm," he said.
 "What?" Valerie said. She knew that tone.
 "While you were doing all that talking, he

 Valerie tapped Westley in a couple of places. 
 she said. 
ll have to work around that."
 Max did a few taps himself. "Do you suppose the oracle

 Valerie looked at the clock. 
t think so, it
t trust her all that much any
 more."
 Max nodded. "I know, but it would have been nice to have a little advance hint on whether this is gonna
 work or not." He rubbed his eyes. "I
d known in advance about the job; I
 He shrugged.
 
t be helped, down is down. Get me my Encyclopedia of Spells and the Hex Appendix."
 "I thought you knew all about this kind of thing," Inigo said, starting to get upset himself now.
 "I
s been three years, you can

 
s the hex book and your glasses," Valerie puffed, coming up the basement ladder. As Max began
 thumbing through, she turned to Inigo and Fezzik, who were hovering. "You can help," she said.
 "Anything," Fezzik said.
 "Tell us whatever

 
 Max said from his hex book. His voice was growing stronger.
 
 Valerie went on, 
s going to be done?"
 "Well, that
 Inigo said, 

 
 Valerie said. 
s going to be plenty or you

 
ll all three be fighting," Inigo corrected. "And then once we

 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (161 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Visibly Valerie's energy drained. She sat wearily down. 
 she said, tapping his shoulder. 

 He looked up. 

 

 Max shut the hex book. 
 he said.
 
 Inigo insisted. 

 
 Valerie thumped Westley's chest
s
 life
ll take months before there

 
t got monthsit
s at six tonight. What parts can we hope to
 have in working order in seventeen hours?"
 "Well," Max said, considering. "Certainly the tongue, absolutely the brain, and, with luck, maybe a little
 slow walk if you nudge him gently in the right direction."
 Inigo looked at Fezzik in despair.
 "What can I tell you?" Max said. "You needed a fantasmagoria."
 "And you never could have gotten one of those for sixty-five," Valerie added, consolingly.
 Little cut here, twenty pages maybe. What happens basically is an alternation of sceneswhat
s the situation with the miracle man, back and forth, and with every shift he gives
 the time, son of 
clock,
s really interested in, as always, is the satiric antiroyalty stuff and how
 stupid they were going through with all these old traditions, kissing the sacred ring of Great-grandfather
 So-and-So, etc.
 There is some action stuff which I cut, which I never did anywhere else, and here
s acquiring a holocaust cloak so he doesn
s my conviction that this is the same kind of thing as the Wizard of Oz
 sending Dorothy
s castle for the ruby slippers; it
feel,
t want to risk, when the book
s saying, 
 Here
s Florinese version came before
 Baum wrote The Wizard of Oz, so in spite of the fact that he was the originator, he comes out just the
 other way around. It would be nice if somebody, maybe a Ph.D. candidate on the loose, did a little
 something for Morgenstern
t
 spend all this time with a nutty couple like Max and Valerie to have it fail. At least, a whiz like
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (162 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Morgenstern doesn
s a very sore point with me, because, just to take one
 example, there was a line in Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid where Butch said, 
 and one of my genius producers said, 
s got to go; I don
 and I said why and he said, 
t talk like that then; it
 I remember explaining, 
 We shook hands and ended enemies but the line stayed in the picture.
 And so here the point is, if Max and Valerie sound Jewish, why shouldn
s folks were named Max and Valerie
 and his father was a doctor. Life imitating art, an imitating life; I really get those two confused, sort of
 like I can never remember if claret is Bordeaux wine or Burgundy. They both taste good is the only thing
 that really matters, I guess, and so does Morgenstern, and we
You mean, that's it?
That's it,
Beautiful,
You sound so disappointedwhat
 did you think a resurrection pill looked like?
Not like a lump of clay the size of a golf ball,
I usually give them a coating of chocolate at the last minute; it makes them look a lot better,
It must be four o'clock,
Better get the chocolate ready, so it'll have time to harden.
You never did a better job;
 smile.
It'll work without a hitch?
t forget this either.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (163 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 He just didn
Your Highness,
Report,
All of your wishes have been carried out, Highness. Personally I have attended to each detail.
Specify,
t necks and all the wishing in the world wouldn
All passages to the castle itself have been resealed this very morning, save the main gate. That is now
 the only way in, and the only way out. I have changed the lock to the main gate. There is only one key to
 the new lock and I keep it wherever I am. When I am outside with the one hundred troops, the key is in
 the outside lock and no one can leave the castle from the inside. When I am with you, as I am now, the
 key is in the inside lock, and no one may enter from the outside.
Follow,
s private stables. Beyond that, naturally,
 the outside castle wall. "That is how they will come," he said. "Over the wall, through my stables, past
 my garden, to my window, throttle the Queen and back the way they came before we know it."
 "They?" Yellin said, though he knew the answer.
 "The Guilderians, of course."
 "But the wall where you suggest is the highest wall surrounding all of Florin Castleit is fifty feet high at
 that pointso that would seem the least likely point of attack." He was trying desperately to keep himself
 under control.
 "All the more reason why they should choose this spot; besides, the world knows that the Guilderians are
 unsurpassed as climbers."
 Yellin had never heard that. He had always thought the Swiss were the ones who were unsurpassed as
 climbers. "Highness," he said, in one last attempt, "I have not yet, from a single spy, heard a single word
 about a single plot against the Princess."
 "I have it on unimpeachable authority that there will be an attempt made to strangle the Princess this very
 night."
 "In that case," Yellin said, and he dropped to one knee and held out the envelope, "I must resign." It was
 a difficult decision the Yellins had headed enforcement in Florin for generations, and they took their
 work more than seriously. "I am not doing a capable job, sire; please forgive me and believe me when I
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (164 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 say that my failures were those of the body and mind and not of the heart."
 Prince Humperdinck found himself, quite suddenly, in a genuine pickle, for once the war was finished,
 he needed someone to stay in Guilder and run it, since he couldn
I do not accept your resignation, you are doing a
 capable job, there is no plot, I shall slaughter the Queen myself this very evening, you shall run Guilder
 for me after the war, now get back on your feet.
t know what to say. "Thank you" seemed so inadequate, but it was all he could come up with.
 "Once the wedding is done with I shall send her here to make ready while I shall, with boots carefully
 procured in advance, make tracks leading from the wall to the bedroom and returning then from the
 bedroom to the wall. Since you are in charge of law enforcement, I expect you will not take long to
 verify my fears that the prints could only be made by the boots of Guilderian soldiers. Once we have that,
 we

 Yellin knew a dismissal speech when he heard one. 

 
 Humperdinck said, pleased, because, after all, loyalty was one thing you couldn't buy. And
 in that mood, he said to Yellin by the door, 
s quite all right with me."
 "I will, Highness," Yellin said, adding, "but I don

 The Prince understood important news when he heard it because he wasn't the greatest hunter in the
 world for nothing and, even more, because if there was one thing you could say about the albino it was
 that he was always to be found. 
t suppose there is a plot, do you? It
d attack them."
 "I will rush to the gate and fight, to the death if necessary," Yellin said.
 "Good man," the Prince called after him. If there was an attack, it would come at the busiest time, during
 the wedding, so he would have to move that up. State affairs went slowly, but, still, he had authority. Six
 o
clock, Max and Valerie were in the basement sipping coffee. "You better get right to bed,"
 Valerie said; "you look all troubled. You can

 
m not tired," Max said. "But you

 
 Valerie crossed to him, stroked where his hair had been.
 
s just I been remembering, about the pill."
 "It was a beautiful pill, honey. Feel proud."
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (165 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 "I think I messed up the amounts, though. Didn
t
 do enough. I don
ll work over forty minutes."
 Valerie moved into his lap. "Let
re a genius, but even a genius gets
 rusty. You were three years out of practice. Forty minutes

 
re right. Anyway, what can we do about it? Down is down."
 "The pressures you been under, if it works at all, it

 Max had to agree with her. 
 He nodded.
 The man in black was nearly stiff when Fezzik reached the wall. It was almost five o'clock and Fezzik
 had been carrying the corpse the whole way from Miracle Max's, back street to back street, alleyway to
 alleyway, and it was one of the hardest things he had ever done. Not taxing. He wasn't even winded. But
 if the pill was just what it looked like, a chocolate lump, then he, Fezzik, was going to have a lifetime of
 bad dreams of bodies growing stiff between his fingers.
 When he at last was in the wall shadow, he said to Inigo, 

 
ve got to see if it
 It was the same part of the wall that led,
 shortly, to the Zoo, in the farthest corner of the castle grounds. But if the albino's body had been
 discovered, then who knew what was waiting for them?
 
 Fezzik asked.
 
ll both do it," Inigo replied. "Lean him against the wall and help me." Fezzik tilted the man in black
 so he was in no danger of falling and waited while Inigo jumped onto his shoulders. Then Fezzik did the
 climbing. Any crack in the wall was enough for his fingers; the least imperfection was all he needed. He
 climbed quickly, familiar with it now, and after a moment, Inigo was able to grab hold of the top and say,
 "All right; go on back down," so Fezzik returned to the man in black and waited.
 Inigo crept along the wall top in dead silence. Far across he could see the castle entrance and the armed
 soldiers flanking it. And closer at hand was the Zoo. And off in the deepest brush in the farthest corner of
 the wall, he could make out the still body of the albino. Nothing had changed at all. They were, at least
 so far, safe. He gestured down to Fezzik, who scissored the man in black between his legs, began the arm
 climb noiselessly.
 When they were all together on the wall top, Inigo stretched out the dead man and then hurried along
 until he could get a better view of the main gate. The walk from the outer wall to the main castle gate
 was slanted slightly down, not much of an incline, but a steady one. There must beInigo did a quick
 countat least a hundred men standing at the ready. And the time must be he estimated closelyfive after
 five now, perhaps close to ten. Fifty minutes till the wedding. Inigo turned then and hurried back to
 Fezzik. "I think we should give him the pill," he said. "It must be around forty-five minutes till the
 ceremony."
 "That means he
 Fezzik said. 

 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (166 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 
 Inigo said. 
re going to stop the wedding before it happensthat
re all set. In the hustle and bustle beforehand, that

 Fezzik had no further rebuttal.
 
 Inigo said, 
t know how long it takes to swallow something like this."
 "I could never get it down myself, I know that."
 "We
 Inigo said, unwrapping the chocolate-colored lump. 

 
m with you, Inigo," Fezzik said. "Just tell me what to do."
 "Let
t you? I always find it

 
ll have to really work at it," Fezzik said. "He
t think he

 
 Inigo said. 

 
 Fezzik said. 
t ever leave me alone." He pulled the corpse between them and tried
 to make him bend in half, but the man in black was so stiff Fezzik really had to perspire to get him at
 right angles. "How long do you think we
s on or not?"
 "Your guess is as good as mine," Inigo said. "Get his mouth as wide open as you can and tilt his head
 back a little and we

 Fezzik worked at the dead man's mouth a while, got it the way Inigo said, tilted the neck perfect the first
 time, and Inigo knelt directly above the cavity, dropped the pill down, and as it hit the throat he heard,
 
t beat me alone, you dastards; well, I beat you each apart, I

 
re alive!" Fezzik cried.
 The man in black sat immobile, like a ventriloquist
That is perhaps the
 most childishly obvious remark I have ever come across, but what can you expect from a strangler. Why
 won't my arms move?
You've been dead,
And we're not strangling you,
we were just getting the pill down.
The resurrection pill,
I bought it from Miracle Max and it works for sixty minutes.
What happens after sixty minutes? Do I die again?
t sixty minutes; he just thought it was.
 Actually it was forty; only they had used up one already in conversation, so it was down to thirty-nine.)
 "We don

 
 the man in black said. 
d write it all down.
 I could make a fortune on a book like that. I can

 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (167 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 
s supposed to. Max said the tongue and the brain were shoo-ins and probably you

 
m the Dread Pirate Roberts, but you can call me 
"
 "Fezzik."
 "Inigo Montoya of Spain. Let me tell you what
 He stopped and shook his head. 

 he said. 
s too much, it would take too long, let me distill it for you: the wedding is at six, which
 leaves us probably now something over half an hour to get in, steal the girl, and get out; but not before I
 kill Count Rugen."
 "What are our liabilities?"
 "There is but one working castle gate and it is guarded by perhaps a hundred men."
 "Hmmm," Westley said, not as unhappy as he might have been ordinarily, because just then he began to
 be able to wiggle his toes.
 "And our assets?"
 "Your brains, Fezzik

 Westley stopped wiggling his toes. 
s all? That

 Inigo tried to explain. 
ve been operating under a terrible time pressure from the very beginning. Just
 yesterday morning, for example, I was a hopeless drunk and Fezzik toiled for the Brute Squad."
 "It
 Westley cried.
 

 
s going to marry Humperdinck and I
 Westley said in blind despair. 

 
re giving in too easily, we fought monsters to reach you, we risked everything because you have the
 brains to conquer problems. I have complete and absolute total confidence that you"
 "I want to die," Westley whispered, and he closed his eyes. "If I had a month to plan, maybe I might
 come up with something, but this . . ." His head rocked from side to side. "I

 
 Fezzik said, doing his best to be cheery. 
t that up your spirits?"
 "My brains, your strength and his steel against a hundred troops? And you think a little head-jiggle is
 supposed to make me happy? Why didn

 
re over your emotional outbursts, you

 
 Westley said.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (168 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 
 Inigo asked.
 
 Fezzik replied.
 
 Inigo said.
 
t you list that among our assets in the first place?" Westley said, sitting up, staring out at
 the massed troops in the distance.
 "You just sat up," Fezzik said, still trying to be cheery.
 Westley continued to stare at the troops and the incline leading down toward them. He shook his head.
 "What I
 he said then.
 
t help you," Inigo said.
 "Will this do?" Fezzik wondered, pulling out his holocaust cloak.
 "Where . . . ?" Inigo began.
 "While you were after frog dust" Fezzik answered. "It fit so nicely I just tucked it away and kept it."
 Westley got to his feet then. "All right. I

 
 Inigo asked. 

 
 Westley agreed. 
re inside"
 "I
 Inigo cut in. 
re together, how do we escape? Once we
 escape"
 "Don
 Fezzik said. 
s been dead."
 "Right, right, sorry," Inigo said.
 The man in black was moving verrrrrry slowly now along the top of the wall. By himself. Fezzik and
 Inigo followed him through the darkness in the direction of the wheelbarrow. There was no denying the
 fact that there was a certain excitement in the air.
 Buttercup, for her part, felt no excitement whatsoever. She had, in fact, never remembered such a
 wonderful feeling of calm. Her Westley was coming; that was her world. Ever since the Prince had
 dragged her to her room she had spent the intervening hours thinking of ways to make Westley happy.
 There was no way he could miss stopping her wedding. That was the only thought that could survive the
 trip across her conscious mind.
 So when she heard the wedding was to be moved up, she wasn
I AM THE DREAD PIRATE ROBERTS AND
 THERE WILL BE NO SURVIVORS.
NO SURVIVORS, NO SURVIVORS!
NO SURVIVORS
Give me the key,
s Adam
I have no key,
I swear on the grave of my parents; may my mother's soul forever sizzle
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (170 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 in torment if I am lying.
Tear his arms off,
s arms.
 "This key you mean?" Yellin said, and he dropped it, and after Inigo had taken his sword, they let him
 run away.
 "Open the gate," Westley said to Fezzik.
 "I
 Fezzik said, 
 and after Westley's nod, he pulled the
 flaming cloak away and left it on the ground, then unlocked the gate and pulled the door open enough for
 them to slip through.
 
 Westley said. 

 
 Fezzik said, working with the key, forcing the great lock to close.
 
m the kind of fellow who needs instructions."
 Before Westley could answer, Inigo cried out and readied his sword. Count Rugen and four palace
 guards were rounding a corner and running toward them. The time was then 5:34.
 The wedding itself did not end until 5:31, and Humperdinck had to use all of his persuasive abilities to
 get even that much accomplished. As the screaming from outside the gate burst all bounds of propriety,
 the Prince interrupted the Archdean with gentlest manner and said, "Holiness, my love is simply
 overpowering my ability to waitplease skip on down to the end of the service."
 The time was then 5:27.
 "Humperdinck and Buttercup," the Archdean said, "I am very old and my thoughts on marriage are few,
 but I feel I must give them to you on this most happy of days." (The Archdean could hear absolutely
 nothing, and had been so afflicted since he was eighty-five or so. The only actual change that had come
 over him in the past years was that, for some reason, his impediment had gotten worse. "Mawidge," he
 said. "Vewy old." Unless you paid strict attention to his title and past accomplishments, it was very hard
 to take him seriously.)
 "Mawidge" the Archdean began.
 "Again, Holiness, I interrupt in the name of love. Please hurry along as best you can to the end."
 "Mawidge is a dweam wiffin a dweam."
 Buttercup was paying little attention to the goings on. Westley must be racing down the corridors now.
 He always ran so beautifully. Even back on the farm, long before she knew her heart, it was good to
 watch him run.
 Count Rugen was the only other person in the room, and the commotion at the gate had him on edge.
 Outside the door he had his four best swordsmen, so no one could enter the tiny chapel, but, still, there
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (171 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 were a lot of people screaming where the Brute Squad should have been. The four guards were the only
 ones left inside the castle, for the Prince needed no spectators to the events that were soon to happen. If
 only the idiot cleric would speed things along. It was already 5:29.
 "The dweam of wuv wapped wiffin the gweater dweam of everwasting west. Eternity is our fwiend,
 wemember that, and wuv wiw fowwow you fowever."
 It was 5:30 when the Prince stood up and approached the Archdean firmly. "Man and wife," he
 shouted."Man and wife. Say that!"
 "I
 the Archdean answered.
 
 the Prince replied. 

 Buttercup could picture Westley rounding the final corner. There were four guards outside waiting. At
 ten seconds per guard, she began figuring, but then stopped, because numbers had always been her
 enemy. She looked down at her hands. Oh, I hope he still thinks I'm pretty, she thought; those nightmares
 took a lot out of me.
 
re man and wife," the Archdean said.
 "Thank you, Holiness," the Prince said, whirling toward Rugen. "Stop that commotion!" he commanded,
 and before his words were finished, the Count was running for the chapel door.
 It was 5:31.
 It took a full three minutes for the Count and the guards to reach the gate, and when they did, the Count
 could not believe it he had seen Westley killed, and now there was Westley. And with a giant and a
 strangely scarred swarthy fellow. Something about the twin scars banked deep into his memory, but now
 was not the time for reminiscing. "Kill them," he said to the fencers, "but leave the middle-sized one until
 I tell you" and the four guards drew their swords
 but too late; too late and too slow, because as Fezzik moved in front of Westley, Inigo attacked, the great
 blade blinding, and the fourth guard was dead before the first one had had sufficient time to hit the floor.
 Inigo stood still a moment, panting. Then he made a half turn in the direction of Count Rugen and
 executed a quick and well-formed bow. "Hello," he said. "My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my
 father. Prepare to die."
 And in reply, the Count did a genuinely remarkable and unexpected thing: he turned and ran. It was now
 5:37.
 King Lotharon and Queen Bella arrived at the wedding chapel in time to see Count Rugen leading the
 four guards in a charge down the corridor.
 "Are we too early?" Queen Bella said, as they entered the wedding chapel and found Buttercup and
 Humperdinck and the Archdean.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (172 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:03 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 "There is much going on," the Prince said. "All, in due time, will come matchlessly clear. But I fear there
 is a strong possibility that, at this very moment, the Guilderians are attacking. I need time alone in the
 garden to formulate my battle plans, so could I prevail upon you two to personally escort Buttercup to
 my bedchamber?"
 His request was, naturally, granted. The Prince hurried off then, and, after one stop to unlock a closet and
 remove several pairs of boots that had once belonged to Guilderian soldiers, he hurried outside.
 Buttercup, for her part, walked very slowly and peacefully between the old King and Queen. There was
 no need ever to worry, not with Westley there to stop her wedding and take her away forever. The truth
 of her situation did not take genuine effect until she was halfway to Humperdinck
s room, it
 would all be done. He had a splendid collection of swords and cutlery.
 She had never seriously contemplated suicide before. Oh, of course she
s chamber, said good night to the Royal Family, and went
 directly to the wall display of weaponry. The time was then 5:46.
 Inigo, at 5:37, was so startled at the Count
Fezzik,
Fezzik, break it down.
Charge it,
Slam your shoulder hard. It will give for you.
He's getting away from me,
But Westley is helpless,
Fezzik I need you,
I'll only be a minute,
Hurry,
Please,
I'll get it, I'll get it,
Thank you, thank you,
What do I do now though?
Back to Westley,
Stupid,
Which which which?
You'll pick the wrong one, knowing you,
s knives. The most lethal looked to be the one most used, the Florinese dagger. Pointed at
 one end, it entered easily, growing into a triangular shape by the hilt. For quicker bleeding, it was said.
 They were made in varying sizes, and the Prince
There are always too few perfect breasts in this world; leave yours alone,
t have an hour; only forty minutes. Till 5:55, actually. Seven minutes more. But, as
 has been said, he had no way of knowing that.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (174 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:04 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 And Inigo had no way of knowing that Count Rugen had a Florinese dagger. Or that he was expert with
 the thing. It took Inigo until 5:41 before he actually cornered the Count. In a billiard room. "Hello," he
 was about to say. "My name is Inigo Montoya; you killed my father; prepare to die." What he actually
 got out was somewhat less: "Hello, my name is Ini"
 And then the dagger rearranged his insides. The force of the throw sent him staggering backward into the
 wall. The rush of blood weakened him so quickly he could not keep his feet. "Domingo, Domingo," he
 whispered, and then he was, at forty-two minutes after five, lost on his knees. . . .
 Buttercup was baffled by Westley
s pillows, a
 sword beside his body.
 Buttercup continued the journey alone and fell onto her very one and darling Westley.
 "Gently," he said.
 "At a time like this that
Gently

 
 Westley repeated, not so gently this time.
 She got off him. 
 she wondered.
 
 he said, softly. Strange his voice was. 

 

 
t they, Your Highness?" And now his voice was stronger as he
 addressed the Prince, who entered, muddy boots in hand.
 Prince Humperdinck dove for his weapons, and a sword flashed in his thick hands. "To the death," he
 said, advancing.
 Westley gave a soft shake of his head. "No," he corrected. "To the pain."
 It was an odd phrase, and for the moment it brought the Prince up short. Besides, why was the fellow just
 lying there? Where was the trap? "I don

 Westley lay without moving but he was smiling more deeply now. 
ll be only too delighted to explain."
 It was 5:50 now. Twenty-five minutes of safety left. (There were five. He did not know that. How could
 he know that?) Slowly, carefully, he began to talk. . . .
 Inigo was talking too. It was still 5:42 when he whispered, "I

 Count Rugen heard the words but nothing really connected until he saw the sword still held in Inigo's
 hand. 
re that little Spanish brat I taught a lesson to," he said, coming closer now, examining the
 scars. "It
s the
 worst thing I ever heard of; how marvelous."
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (175 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:04 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Inigo could say nothing. The blood fauceted from his stomach.
 Count Rugen drew his sword.
 ". . . sorry, Father . . . I

 'I DON'T WANT YOUR 
! MY NAME IS DOMINGO MONTOYA AND I DIED FOR THAT
 SWORD AND YOU CAN KEEP YOUR 
 IF YOU WERE GOING TO FAIL, WHY DIDN'T
 YOU DIE YEARS AGO AND LET ME REST IN PEACE?' And then MacPherson was after him too
 
re dumb, they forget, what do you do
 with a wound? How many times did I teach youwhat do you do with a wound?"
 "Cover it . . ." Inigo said, and he pulled the knife from his body and stuffed his left fist into the bleeding.
 Inigo
s blade as it
 approached his heart, and Inigo couldn
s shoulder. There was no hurry when you had him.
 MacPherson was screaming again"Spaniards! Give me a Polack anytime; at least the Polacks remember
 to use the wall when they have one; only the Spaniards would forget to use a wall"
 Slowly, inch by inch, Inigo forced his body up the wall, using his legs just for pushing, letting the wall do
 all the supporting that was necessary.
 Count Rugen struck again, but for any number of reasons, most probably because he hadn
s movement, he missed the heart and had to be content with driving his blade through the
 Spaniard
t mind. He didn
t
 expected that either, so he gave a little involuntary cry and took a step back to reassess the situation.
 Power was flowing up from Inigo
. . .
 hello . . . my name is . . . Inigo Montoya; you killed . . . my father; prepare to die.
Hello . . . my name is Inigo Montoya; you killed my father . . . prepare to die. . . .
Hello, my name is Inigo Montoya; you killed my father;
 prepare to die.
Hello, my name is Inigo Montoya; you killed my father; prepare to die.
t want to think what he was touching and pushing and holding into place but for the first time he felt
 able to try a move, so the six-fingered sword flashed forward
 and there was a cut down one side of Count Rugen
Hello, my name is Inigo Montoya; you killed my father; prepare to die.
Stop saying that!
s left shoulder, as the Count had wounded his. Then he went through the
 Count
Hello.
Hello!  HELLO. MY NAME IS INIGO MONTOYA. YOU KILLED MY FATHER. PREPARE TO
 DIE!
No
Offer me money
Everything,
Power too. Promise me that.
All I have and more. Please.
Offer me anything I ask for.
Yes. Yes. Say it.
I  WANT DOMINGO  MONTOYA,  YOU  SON  OF  A  BITCH,
That was just to the left of your heart.
That was below your heart. Can you guess what I'm doing?
Cutting my heart out.
You took mine when I was ten; I want yours now. We are lovers of justice, you and Iwhat could be
 more just than that?
s frozen face was petrified and ashen and the blood still poured
 down the parallel cuts. His eyes bulged wide, full of horror and pain. It was glorious. If you like that kind
 of thing.
 Inigo loved it.
 It was 5:50 when he staggered from the room, heading he knew not where or for how long, but hoping
 only that whoever had been guiding him lately would not desert him now. . . .
 "I
 Westley
 said, lying pleasantly on the bed. Across the room, the Prince held the sword high. 
m going to
 tell you is this: drop your sword, and if you do, then I will leave with this baggage here"he glanced at
 Buttercup"and you will be tied up but not fatally, and will soon be free to go about your business. And if
 you choose to fight, well, then, we will not both leave alive."
 "I expect to breathe a while," the Prince said. "I think you are bluffingyou have been prisoner for months
 and I myself killed you less than a day ago, so I doubt that you have much might left in your arm."
 "Possibly true," Westley agreed, "and when the moment comes, remember that: I might indeed be
 bluffing. I could, in fact, be lying right here because I lack the strength to stand. All that, weigh
 carefully."
 "You are only alive now because you said 
 I want that phrase explained."
 "My pleasure." It was 5:52 now. Three minutes left. He thought he had eighteen. He took a long pause,
 then started speaking. "Surely, you must have guessed I am no ordinary sailor. I am, in fact, Roberts
 himself."
 "I am, in fact, not the least surprised or awed."
 "To the pain means this: if we duel and you win, death for me. If we duel and I win, life for you. But life
 on my terms."
 "Meaning?" It could all still be a trap. His body was at the ready.
 "There are those who credit you with skill as a hunter, though I find that doubtful."
 The Prince smiled. The fellow was baiting him. Why?
 "And if you hunt well, then surely, when you tracked your lady, you must have begun at the Cliffs of
 Insanity. A duel was fought there and if you noted the movements and the strides, you would know that
 those were masters battling. They were. Remember this: I won that fight. And I am a pirate. We have our
 special tricks with swords."
 It was 5:53. "I am not unfamiliar with steel."
 "The first thing you lose will be your feet," Westley said. "The left, then the right. Below the ankle. You
 will have stumps available to use within six months. Then your hands, at the wrist. They heal somewhat
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (178 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:04 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 quicker. Five months is a fair average." And now Westley was beginning to be aware of strange changes
 in his body and he began talking faster, faster and louder. "Next your nose. No smell of dawn for you.
 Followed by your tongue. Deeply cut away. Not even a stump left. And then your left eye"
 "And then my right eye and then my ears, and shall we get on with it?" the Prince said. It was 5:54.
 "Wrong!" Westley
Your ears you keep, so that every shriek of every child
 at seeing your hideousness will be yours to cherishevery babe that weeps in fear at your approach, every
 woman that cries 'Dear God, what is that thing?' will reverberate forever with your perfect ears. That is
 what 'to the pain' means. It means that I leave you to live in anguish, in humiliation, in freakish misery
 until you can stand it no more; so there you have it, pig, there you know, you miserable vomitous mass,
 and I say this now, and live or die, it's up to you: Drop your sword!
s eyes rolled up into his head and his body crumpled and half pitched from the bed and the
 Prince saw that and went to the floor, grabbing for his sword, standing, starting to bring it high, when
 Westley cried out: "Now you willsuffer: to the pain!" His eyes were open again.
 Open and blazing.
 "I
t; look," and the Prince dropped his sword a second time.
 "Tie him," Westley said to Buttercup. "Be quick about ituse the curtain sashes; they look enough to hold
 him"
 "You
 Buttercup replied. 
ll get the sashes, but I really think you should do the
 actual tying."
 "Woman," Westley roared, "you are the property of the Dread Pirate Roberts and you . . . do . . . what . . .
 you

 Buttercup gathered the sashes and did what she could with tying up her husband.
 Humperdinck lay flat while she did it. He seemed strangely happy. 
t afraid of you," he said to
 Westley. "I dropped my sword because it will be so much more pleasure for me to hunt you down."
 "You think so, do you? I doubt you

 
ll conquer Guilder and then I

 
 He called out to Buttercup. 

 

 There was movement at the doorway and then Inigo was there. Buttercup cried out at the blood. Inigo
 ignored her, looked around. 
s Fezzik?"
 "Isn
 Westley said.
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (179 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:04 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 Inigo leaned for a moment against the nearest wall, gathering strength. Then he said, 
 to
 Buttercup.
 
 Buttercup replied. 

 
re told," Inigo said, and then suddenly on the floor, the
 Prince began struggling mightily with the sashes and he was tied, and tied well, but power and anger
 were both on his side.
 "You were bluffing; I was right the first time," Humperdinck said, and Inigo said, "That was not a clever
 thing of me to let slip; I
 and Westley said, 
 and Inigo said, 
 and Westley said, 
 and Buttercup said, 
ll help you up, poor darling," and Fezzik said, "Oh, Inigo, I need you,
 please, Inigo; I

 They moved slowly to the window.
 Wandering lost and forlorn through the Prince's garden was Fezzik, leading the four giant whites.
 
 Inigo whispered.
 
 Fezzik said, kind of bouncing up and down on his heels, which he always did
 when things were looking up. 
 He stopped a moment, considering. 

 Inigo was terribly excited. 
 he said.
 Fezzik considered that a moment too. 
re not mad at me for getting lost?"
 "If we only had a ladder" Buttercup began.
 "Oh, you don
 Fezzik said; 
s only twenty feet, I
s not enough light, so if you all come at once I might miss."
 So while Humperdinck struggled, they jumped, one at a time, and Fezzik caught them gently and put
 them on the whites, and he still had the key so they could get out the front gate, and except for the fact
 that Yellin had regrouped the Brute Squad, they would have gotten out without any trouble at all. As it
 was, when Fezzik unlocked the gate, they saw nothing but armed Brutes in formation, Yellin at their
 lead. And no one smiling.
 Westley shook his head. "I am dry of notions."
 "Child
 of all people, Buttercup said, and she led the group toward Yellin. 

 Not a Brute moved.
 
 Yellin said. 

 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (180 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:04 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 
 Buttercup said, 
 she repeated, standing up in the saddle, a creature of infinite beauty and eyes
 that were starting to grow frightening, 
 she said for the third and last time, 

 There was no doubting her sincerity. Or power. Or capability for vengeance. She stared imperiously
 across the Brute Squad.
 
 one Brute said, and with that they all dashed into the castle.
 
 Yellin said, the last one left, but clearly his heart wasn't in it.
 
 Buttercup said as they began to ride for freedom, 
t officially resigned, but I thought 
 sounded better than 
"
 "All I can say is, I
 Westley told her.
 Buttercup shrugged. 
ve been going to royalty school three years now; something had to rub off." She
 looked at Westley. "You all right? I was worried about you back on the bed there. Your eyes rolled up
 into your head and everything."
 "I suppose I was dying again, so I asked the Lord of Permanent Affection for the strength to live the day.
 Clearly, the answer came in the affirmative."
 "I didn
 Buttercup said.
 
t exist, I didn

 The four great horses seemed almost to fly toward Florin Channel.
 
re doomed, then," Buttercup said.
 Westley looked at her. "Doomed, madam?"
 "To be together. Until one of us dies."
 "I
t the slightest intention of ever doing it again," Westley said.
 Buttercup looked at him. "Don

 

 Buttercup looked at him. 

 'And they lived happily ever after,' my father said.
 'Wow,' I said.
 He looked at me. 'You're not pleased?'
 file:///C|/web/EBooks/New/GOLDMAN, William - The Princess Bride - v3.0.html/PrincessBride.html (181 of 183) [2/18/2002 11:29:04 PM]
THE PRINCESS BRIDE by William Goldman
 'No, no, it's just, it came so quick, the ending, it surprised me. I thought there 'd be a little more, is all. I
 mean, was the pirate ship waiting or was that just a rumor like it said?'
 'Complain to Mr. Morgenstern. 
 is how it ends.'
 The truth was, my father was fibbing. I spent my whole life thinking it ended that way, up until I did this
 abridgement. Then I glanced at the last page. This is how Morgenstern ends it.
 Buttercup looked at him. 
 From behind them suddenly, closer than they
 imagined, they could hear the roar of Humperdinck: 
s wound reopened; and Westley relapsed again; and Fezzik took the
 wrong turn; and Buttercup
s Morgenstern
Lady or the Tiger?
The Lady or the Tiger?,
m an abridger, so I
t mean I think they had a happy ending either. Because, in my opinion anyway, they
 squabbled a lot, and Buttercup lost her looks eventually, and one day Fezzik lost a fight and some
 hot-shot kid whipped Inigo with a sword and Westley was never able to really sleep sound because of
 Humperdinck maybe being on the trail.
 I
t fair. It
