dogs and cats living together … mass hysteria!
Dead Man’s Party.
Dead Man’s Party,
All dressed up with nowhere to go. Walking with a dead man over my
 shoulder. Don’t run away, it’s only me.…
I, James Donovan Halliday, being of sound mind and disposing memory,
 do hereby make, publish, and declare this instrument to be my last will and
 testament, hereby revoking any and all wills and codicils by me at any time
 heretofore made.…
Forget it,
Even
 at that speed, it would take me a month to read the whole thing. Sad to say, I
 don’t have that kind of time.
Let me just give you the highlights.
My entire estate,
 including a controlling share of stock in my company, Gregarious Simulation
 Systems, is to be placed in escrow until such time as a single condition I have
 set forth in my will is met. The first individual to meet that condition will
 inherit my entire fortune, currently valued in excess of two hundred and forty
 billion dollars.
Here’s the dough I’m putting up for grabs,
What the hell. You can’t take it with you, right?
Now, I’m sure you’re wondering, what do you have to do to get
 your hands on all this moolah? Well, hold your horses, kids. I’m getting to
 that.…
This was the first videogame system I ever owned,
An Atari 2600. I got it for Christmas in 1979.
My
 favorite game was this one,
It was called
 Adventure. Like many early videogames, Adventure was designed and
 programmed by just one person. But back then, Atari refused to give its
 programmers credit for their work, so the name of a game’s creator didn’t
 actually appear anywhere on the packaging.
So the guy who created Adventure, a man named Warren Robinett,
 decided to hide his name inside the game itself. He hid a key in one of the
 game’s labyrinths. If you found this key, a small pixel-sized gray dot, you
 could use it to enter a secret room where Robinett had hidden his name.
This,
was
 the very first videogame Easter egg. Robinett hid it in his game’s code
 without telling a soul, and Atari manufactured and shipped Adventure all
 over the world without knowing about the secret room. They didn’t find out
 about the Easter egg’s existence until a few months later, when kids all over
 the world began to discover it. I was one of those kids, and finding Robinett’s
 Easter egg for the first time was one of the coolest videogaming experiences
 of my life.
A
Before I died,
I created
 my own Easter egg, and hid it somewhere inside my most popular videogame
 —the OASIS. The first person to find my Easter egg will inherit my entire
 fortune.
The egg is well hidden. I didn’t just leave it lying under a rock
 somewhere. I suppose you could say that it’s locked inside a safe that is
 buried in a secret room that lies hidden at the center of a maze located
 somewhere
up here.
 “But don’t worry. I’ve left a few clues lying around to get everyone
 started. And here’s the first one.
I couldn’t playtest this
 particular game, so I worry that I may have hidden my Easter egg a little too
 well. Made it too difficult to reach. I’m not sure. If that’s the case, it’s too late
 to change anything now. So I guess we’ll see.
So without further ado,
let the hunt for Halliday’s
 Easter egg begin!
the Scoreboard.
egg hunters,
gunters.
professional
the human
 condition.
Here’s the deal, Wade. You’re something called a ‘human being.’ That’s
 a really smart kind of animal. Like every other animal on this planet, we’re
 descended from a single-celled organism that lived millions of years ago.
 This happened by a process called evolution, and you’ll learn more about it
 later. But trust me, that’s really how we all got here. There’s proof of it
 everywhere, buried in the rocks. That story you heard? About how we were
 all created by a super-powerful dude named God who lives up in the sky?
 Total bullshit. The whole God thing is actually an ancient fairy tale that
 people have been telling one another for thousands of years. We made it all
 up. Like Santa Claus and the Easter Bunny.
 “Oh, and by the way … there’s no Santa Claus or Easter Bunny. Also
 bullshit. Sorry, kid. Deal with it.
“You’re probably wondering what happened before you got here. An awful
 lot of stuff, actually. Once we evolved into humans, things got pretty
 interesting. We figured out how to grow food and domesticate animals so we
 didn’t have to spend all of our time hunting. Our tribes got much bigger, and
 we spread across the entire planet like an unstoppable virus. Then, after
 fighting a bunch of wars with each other over land, resources, and our made
up gods, we eventually got all of our tribes organized into a ‘global
 civilization.’ But, honestly, it wasn’t all that organized, or civilized, and we
 continued to fight a lot of wars with each other. But we also figured out how
 to do science, which helped us develop technology. For a bunch of hairless
 apes, we’ve actually managed to invent some pretty incredible things.
 Computers. Medicine. Lasers. Microwave ovens. Artificial hearts. Atomic
 bombs. We even sent a few guys to the moon and brought them back. We
 also created a global communications network that lets us all talk to each
 other, all around the world, all the time. Pretty impressive, right?
 “But that’s where the bad news comes in. Our global civilization came at a
 huge cost. We needed a whole bunch of energy to build it, and we got that
 energy by burning fossil fuels, which came from dead plants and animals
 buried deep in the ground. We used up most of this fuel before you got here,
 and now it’s pretty much all gone. This means that we no longer have enough
 energy to keep our civilization running like it was before. So we’ve had to cut
 back. Big-time. We call this the Global Energy Crisis, and it’s been going on
 for a while now.
 “Also, it turns out that burning all of those fossil fuels had some nasty side
 effects, like raising the temperature of our planet and screwing up the
 environment. So now the polar ice caps are melting, sea levels are rising, and
 the weather is all messed up. Plants and animals are dying off in record
 numbers, and lots of people are starving and homeless. And we’re still
 fighting wars with each other, mostly over the few resources we have left.
 “Basically, kid, what this all means is that life is a lot tougher than it used
 to be, in the Good Old Days, back before you were born. Things used to be
 awesome, but now they’re kinda terrifying. To be honest, the future doesn’t
 look too bright. You were born at a pretty crappy time in history. And it looks
 like things are only gonna get worse from here on out. Human civilization is
 in ‘decline.’ Some people even say it’s ‘collapsing.’
 “You’re probably wondering what’s going to happen to you. That’s easy.
 The same thing is going to happen to you that has happened to every other
human being who has ever lived. You’re going to die. We all die. That’s just
 how it is.
 “What happens when you die? Well, we’re not completely sure. But the
 evidence seems to suggest that nothing happens. You’re just dead, your brain
 stops working, and then you’re not around to ask annoying questions
 anymore. Those stories you heard? About going to a wonderful place called
 ‘heaven’ where there is no more pain or death and you live forever in a state
 of perpetual happiness? Also total bullshit. Just like all that God stuff.
 There’s no evidence of a heaven and there never was. We made that up too.
 Wishful thinking. So now you have to live the rest of your life knowing
 you’re going to die someday and disappear forever.
 “Sorry.
Hand it over, Wade,
I can pawn it
 to help pay our rent.
No!
Come on, Aunt Alice. I need it
 for school.
What you need is to show some gratitude!
Everyone else
around here has to pay rent. I’m tired of you leeching off of me!
You keep all of my food vouchers. That more than covers my share of the
 rent.
The hell it does!
stack
roof
floor
stacking the sumbitches,
stacks
Wade!
Good morning, my dear
 boy.
Good morning, Mrs. G,
I hope I didn’t startle you.
Not at all,
It’s freezing out there! Why don’t you come in and have some
 breakfast? I’ve got some soy bacon. And these powdered eggs aren’t too bad,
 if you put enough salt on them.…
Thanks, but I can’t this morning, Mrs. G. I have to get to school.
All right. Rain check, then.
Try not to break your neck climbing around out there, OK, Spider
Man?
Will do. See ya later, Mrs. G.
People who live in glass houses should shut the fuck
 up.
room
You have been
 recruited by the Star League to defend the Frontier against Xur and the Ko
Dan Armada.
Pimp_Grease, please pay attention!
BigWang69, would you stand up
 and give us your book report?
Hey, hey! If it isn’t Wade Three!
Great outfit, slick,
Where did
 you snag the sweet threads?
Your mom bought them for me,
Tell her I said thanks, the next time you stop at home to breast-feed and pick
 up your allowance.
engaged,
correct
Sixers
Oology Division.
Oology
the science of
studying birds’ eggs,
science
oologists,
6,
the
 Sux0rz.
Eighty-Six the Sux0rz,
Artemis
maddening
 MacGuffin hunt.
The John Hughes
 Blues,
Dorky Girl
 Fantasies
Dorky Boy Fantasies
entrance,
in
The Wild Boys
Yes. But in real life, I’m even more handsome.
Z!
What is up, amigo?
Z
H.
What up, Humperdinck?
H.
So what did you do after you bailed last night?
Nada,
Went home and brushed up on a few classic coin-ops.
Unnecessary.
Yeah. But I was in the mood.
Starlog, eh?
Yep. Downloaded every single issue from the Hatchery’s archive. Still
 working my way through ’em. I was just reading this great piece on Ewoks:
 The Battle for Endor.
Made for TV. Released in 1985,
Total garbage. A real low point in the history of the Wars.
Says you, assface. It has some great moments.
No,
It doesn’t. It’s even worse than that first
 Ewok flick, Caravan of Courage. They shoulda called it Caravan of Suck.
Hey, can I have a look at that when you’re
 done?
Why? So you can read the article on Ladyhawke?
Maybe.
Man, you just love that crapburger, don’t you?
Blow me, Aech.
How many times have you seen that sapfest? I know you’ve made me sit
 through it at least twice.
I was doing you a favor by making you watch it, noob,
You’ll thank me one day. Wait and see. Ladyhawke is
 canon.
Canon
Surely, you must be joking,
No, I am not joking. And don’t call me Shirley.
There is no way Halliday
 was a fan of Ladyhawke. I guarantee it.
Where’s your proof, dipshit?
The man had taste. That’s all the proof I need.
Then please explain to me why he owned Ladyhawke on both VHS and
 LaserDisc?
The guy was a billionaire! He owned millions of movies, most of which
 he probably never even watched! He had DVDs of Howard the Duck and
 Krull, too. That doesn’t mean he liked them, asshat. And it sure as hell
 doesn’t make them canon.
It’s not really up for debate, Homer,
Ladyhawke is an eighties
 classic.
It’s fucking lame, is what it is! The swords look like they were made out
 of tinfoil. And that soundtrack is epically lame. Full of synthesizers and shit.
 By the motherfucking Alan Parsons Project! Lame-o-rama! Beyond lame.
 Highlander II lame.
Hey!
Now you’re
 just being insulting! Ladyhawke’s cast alone makes the film canon! Roy
 Batty! Ferris Bueller! And the dude who played Professor Falken in
 WarGames!
John Wood!
 Reunited with Matthew Broderick!
A real low point in both of their careers,
You must be stoned!
Ladyhawke was directed by Richard
 fucking Donner! The Goonies? Superman: The Movie? You’re saying that
 guy sucks?
I don’t care if Spielberg directed it. It’s a chick flick disguised as a sword
and-sorcery picture. The only genre film with less balls is
 probably … freakin’ Legend. Anyone who actually enjoys Ladyhawke is a
 bona fide USDA-choice pussy!
Oh, so I’m a pussy? You’re the one with the Ewok fetish!
I suppose you think your extensive knowledge of Ewok culture is
 gonna help you find the egg?
Don’t start on the Endorians again, man,
I’ve warned you. I will ban your ass. I swear.
Endorians.
Are you cocks arguing about Star Wars again?
That shit is so played
 out, yo.
If you want to ban someone, why don’t you start with
 this clown?
Shut your hole, Penis-ville!
He doesn’t ban me ’cause he knows
 I’m elite! Ain’t that right, Aech?
No,
That ain’t right. You’re about as elite
 as my great-grandmother. And she’s dead.
Screw you, Aech! And your dead grandma!
Gee, I-r0k,
You always manage to elevate the intelligence
 level of the conversation. The whole room just lights up the moment you
 arrive.
So sorry to upset you, Captain No-Credits,
Hey, shouldn’t
 you be on Incipio panhandling for change right now?
Prick.
Poseur.
Poseur? Penis-ville is calling me a poseur?
This chump is so broke that he has to bum rides to Greyhawk,
 just so he can kill kobolds for copper pieces! And he’s calling me a poseur!
Penis-ville the Mighty Kobold Slayer.
That’s right, I called you a poseur, poseur.
You’re an ignorant know-nothing twink. Just because you’re
fourteenth-level, it doesn’t make you a gunter. You actually have to possess
 some knowledge.
Word,
OK. Let’s see who the real poseur is,
Check this out, girls.
Know what this is, hotshot?
I’ll even give you a clue.… It’s an Atari game,
 released as part of a contest. It contained several puzzles, and if you solved
 them, you could win a prize. Sound familiar?
You’re joking, right?
You just now discovered the Swordquest
 series?
You’re holding Swordquest: Earthworld,
The first game in
 the Swordquest series. Released in 1982.
Can you name the
 next three games in the series?
Anyone else?
Fireworld, Waterworld, and Airworld,
Bingo!
Although Airworld was never
 actually finished, because Atari fell on hard times and canceled the contest
 before it was completed.
You should join up with the Sux0rz, I-r0k,
They
 could really use someone with your vast stores of knowledge.
If you two fags already knew about the
Swordquest contest, how come I’ve never once heard you mention it?
Come on, I-r0k,
Swordquest: Earthworld
 was Atari’s unofficial sequel to Adventure. Every gunter worth their salt
 knows about that contest. How much more obvious can you get?
OK, if you’re both such experts, who
 programmed all of the Swordquest games?
Dan Hitchens and Tod Frye,
Try asking me something
 difficult.
I got one for you,
What were the prizes Atari gave out
 to the winner of each contest?
Ah,
Good one. Let’s see.… The prize for the Earthworld contest
 was the Talisman of Penultimate Truth. It was solid gold and encrusted with
 diamonds. The kid who won it melted it down to pay for college, as I recall.
Yeah, yeah,
Quit stalling. What about the other two?
I’m not stalling. The Fireworld prize was the Chalice of Light, and the
 Waterworld prize was supposed to be the Crown of Life, but it was never
 awarded, due to the cancellation of the contest. Same goes for the Airworld
 prize, which was supposed to be a Philosopher’s Stone.
And if the
 contest hadn’t been canceled, the winners of the first four rounds would have
 competed for the grand prize, the Sword of Ultimate Sorcery.
The prizes were all mentioned in the Swordquest comic books
 that came with the games. Comic books which happen to be visible in the
 treasure room in the final scene of Anorak’s Invitation, by the way.
Fine. You win,
But you both obviously need to get a life.
And you,
obviously need to find a new hobby. Because you
 clearly lack the intelligence and commitment to be a gunter.
No doubt,
Try doing some research for a change, I-r0k. I
 mean, did you ever hear of Wikipedia? It’s free, douchebag.
Whatever,
If I didn’t spend so much time
offline, getting laid, I’d probably know just as much worthless shit as you two
 do.
What were the names of the
 twins who appeared in the Swordquest comic books?
Tarra and Torr.
Damn, Z! You are the man.
Thanks, Aech.
Time for another day of higher learning,
Drag,
See you losers later.
Seriously, Aech,
Why do you let that moron hang out here?
Because he’s fun to beat at videogames. And his ignorance gives me
 hope.
How so?
Because if most of the other gunters out there are as clueless as I-r0k—
 and they are, Z, believe me—that means you and I really do have a shot at
 winning the contest.
I guess that’s one way to look at it.
Wanna hang after school again tonight? Around seven or so? I’ve got a
 few errands to run, but then I’m gonna tackle some of the stuff on my need
to-watch list. A Spaced marathon, perhaps?
Oh, hell yes,
Count me in.
he
sectors,
grail diary
mega geeks
Anorak
open-source reality,
reach in and touch the OASIS.
virtual reality
surreal estate
OASIS
Internet
The Holy Trilogies
lost
Beds Are Burning
notch
discovery
pulling a Pendergast.
the
 Limerick.
module.
you have much to learn if you hope to earn a place among the
 high scorers.
you have
 much to learn if you hope to earn a place among the high scorers.
To run, to go, to get, to
 give. Verb! You’re what’s happenin’!
to learn.
To Learn. Discere,
Now, this one should be easy to remember, because it’s similar to the
 English word ‘discern,’ which also means ‘to learn.’ 
to learn
We go to school to
 learn,
Petimus scholam ut litteras discamus.
much to learn
much to learn.
school.
school,
sport
game.
a low, flat-topped hill, about two hundred yards
 wide and three hundred yards long.
Shit!
T
the wave.
Yo, Z! What are you up to? Jerking off to Ladyhawke?
Give me a shout. I’m still planning to pop some corn and
 have a Spaced marathon. You down?
In the far reaches of the world, under a lost and lonely hill,
lies the sinister TOMB OF HORRORS. This labyrinthine
 crypt is filled with terrible traps, strange and ferocious monsters, rich and
 magical treasures, and somewhere within rests the evil Demi-Lich.
Greetings, Parzival,
What is it that you seek?
I seek the Copper Key,
Your
 Majesty.
Of course you do,
And you’ve
 come to the right place.
How can I know that you are worthy of possessing the Copper Key?
Allow me to prove my worth, noble Acererak.
Very well!
You shall prove your worth by facing me
 in a joust!
All right,
But won’t we be needing horses for that?
Not horses,
Birds.
Best two out of three games,
If you win, I shall grant
 you what you seek.
What if you win?
If I am victorious,
then you shall die!
Of course,
That was my first guess. Just wanted to double
check.
The games are on me,
Art thou ready?
Yeah,
joust
One game down, Parzival,
One more to
 go.
Art thou ready?
Actually, would you mind if we
switched sides? I’m used to playing on the left.
Certainly,
Good game,
Yeah,
Good game, man.
This one is for all the marbles,
Art thou ready?
Congratulations,
 Parzival,
You played well.
Thank you, noble Acererak,
Now,
Your
 reward.
Farewell, Sir Parzival,
I bid you good luck on your quest.
I.
What you seek lies hidden
 in the trash on the deepest level of Daggorath.
Hidden in the trash
Trash
 80.
battle,
g,
Daggorath
g
Who the hell are you?
girl,
Cat got your tongue?
I said: Who. The hell. Are you?
Greetings,
I am Juan Sánchez Villa-Lobos
 Ramírez.
Chief metallurgist to King Charles the Fifth of Spain?
At your service,
Cute.
So, spill it. How did you do?
Do at what?
Jousting against Acererak?
Hello?
I’m waiting?
I got creamed,
Joust isn’t really my game.
Yeah, same here,
Halliday
 programmed old King Acererak with some pretty wicked AI, didn’t he? He’s
 insanely hard to beat.
You can put that away. I’m not gonna bite you.
Is this tomb in a PvP zone?
Dunno. You’re the first avatar I’ve ever run into down here.
I suppose there’s only one way to find out.
Well, there you have it,
This is a no-PvP zone after
 all.
Halliday
 must not have wanted anyone to duel for the right to joust the king,
Yeah,
Lucky for you.
Lucky for me?
How do you figure?
You must really be hurting
 for hit points right now, after fighting Acererak.
I’ve got hit points galore,
That lich was a total wuss.
Oh really?
I’m fifty-second level, and he’s nearly
 killed me every time I’ve had to fight him. I have to stock up on extra healing
 potions every time I come down here.
I
 also recognize your sword and the armor you’re wearing. You got them both
 right here in this dungeon, which means they’re better than whatever your
 avatar had before. You look like a low-level wimpazoid to me, Juan Ramírez.
And I think you’re hiding something.
Think what you want, She-Ra,
Maybe I’ll run
 in to you off-world sometime. We can duke it out then.
See ya ’round.
Where do you think you’re going?
Home,
But what about the lich? And the Copper Key?
He’ll respawn in a few minutes. When the OASIS server clock
 hits midnight, the whole tomb resets. If you wait right here, you’ll get another
 shot at beating him, without having to make your way through all of those
 traps again first. That’s why I’ve been coming here just before midnight,
 every other day. So I can get in two attempts in a row, back-to-back.
I thought we could take turns playing
 against him,
I just played him, so it’ll be your turn at midnight, OK?
 Then I’ll come back after midnight tomorrow. We can alternate days until
 one of us beats him. Sound fair?
I suppose,
But you should stick around anyway.
 Something different might happen if there are two avatars here at midnight.
 Anorak probably prepared for that contingency. Maybe two instances of the
 lich will appear, one for each of us to play? Or maybe—
I prefer to play in private,
Let’s just take turns, OK?
Come on, hold up a second,
Please?
Listen,
I apologize for calling you a
 low-level wimpazoid. That was not cool. I insulted you.
It’s OK. You were right, actually. I’m only tenth level.
Regardless, you’re a fellow gunter. And a clever one too, or you wouldn’t
 be standing here. So, I want you to know that I respect you, and acknowledge
 your skills. And I apologize for the trash talk.
Apology accepted. No worries.
Cool.
I was just a little freaked to find you here,
I mean,
 I knew someone else would find this place eventually. Just not this quickly.
 I’ve had this tomb all to myself for a while now.
How long?
Three weeks!
I’ve been coming here for three freakin’ weeks, trying to beat that stupid
 lich at that asinine game! And his AI is ridiculous! I mean, you know. I’d
 never even played Joust before this, and now it’s driving me out of my gourd!
 I swear I was this close to finally beating his ass a few days ago, but then …
Argh! I can’t sleep. I
 can’t eat. My grades are going down the tubes, because I’ve been ditching to
 practice Joust—
—and I came here tonight, thinking this would be the night I finally beat
 that bastard and get the Copper Key, but when I got here, I saw that someone
 had already uncovered the entrance. So I realized my worst fear had finally
 come true. Someone else had found the tomb. So I ran all the way down here,
 totally freaking out. I mean, I wasn’t too worried, because I didn’t think
 anyone could possibly beat Acererak on their first try, but still—
Sorry,
I tend to ramble when I’m nervous. Or
 excited. And right now I’m sort of both, because I’ve been dying to talk to
 someone about all of this, but obviously I couldn’t tell a soul, right? You
 can’t just mention in casual conversation that you—
Man, I’m such a motormouth! A jabberjaw. A flibbertigibbet.
I really need to
 set up a filter to edit out that laugh of mine.
No, you shouldn’t,
It’s a pretty great laugh, actually.
I have a dorky laugh too.
dorky.
thank you.
I forgot to introduce myself,
I’m Art3mis.
I know,
I’m actually a huge fan of your blog.
 I’ve been a loyal reader for years.
Seriously?
It’s an honor to meet you,
I’m Parzival.
Parzival, eh?
Named after the knight of the
 Round Table who found the grail, right? Very cool.
And Artemis was the Greek goddess of the hunt, right?
Right! But the normal spelling was already taken, so I had to use a leet
 spelling, with a number three in place of the ‘e.’ 
I know,
You mentioned that once on your blog. Two years ago.
You said that you
 still run into noobs who prounounce it ‘Art-three-miss.’ 
That’s right,
I did.
This is, by far, the coolest contact card I have ever seen,
Thank
 you!
This is awesome!
What a wicked design!
Thanks,
Listen, Art3mis,
It was truly awesome to meet you. But I gotta
 get going. The server is about to reset, and I want to clear out of here before
 all of those traps and undead respawn.
Oh … OK.
I should probably
 prepare for my Joust match anyway. But here, let me hit you with a Cure
 Serious Wounds spell before you go.
There you go,
Thanks,
But you shouldn’t have. We’re competitors, you know.
I know. But we can still be friends, right?
I hope so.
Besides, the Third Gate is still a long way off. I mean, it took five years
 for the two of us to get this far. And if I know Halliday’s game-design
 strategy, things are just going to get harder from here on out.
Listen, are you sure you don’t want to stick around? I bet we can
 both play at once. We can give each other Jousting tips. I’ve started to spot
 some flaws in the king’s technique—
That’s a really kind
 offer. But I have to go.
I’ve got school in
 the morning.
You lying bastard!
You dishonest sack of crap!
Holy shit,
PARZIVAL
You beat him on your first try?
He won the first game, but I won the last two. Just barely,
 though.
Shiiiiiit!
How in the hell did you beat
 him on your first try?
It was pure luck,
I used to play Joust all the time against a friend
 of mine. So I’d already had a ton of preparation. I’m sure if you’d had as
 much practice—
Please!
Do not patronize me, OK?
I don’t believe
 this! Do you realize I’ve been trying to beat him for five goddamn weeks!
But a minute ago you said it was three weeks—
Don’t interrupt me!
I’ve been practicing
 Joust nonstop for over a month now! I’m seeing flying ostriches in my
 goddamn sleep!
That can’t be pleasant.
And you just walk in here and nail it on the first try!
Listen,
It really was luck. I’ve got a knack for classic arcade
 games. That’s my specialty.
Stop hitting yourself like Rain
 Man, OK?
Why couldn’t it be Centipede? Or Ms. Pac-Man? Or BurgerTime? Then I’d
 probably have already cleared the First Gate by now!
Well, I don’t know about that,
Hey,
Hold on a sec. What are you doing?
Oh, come on!
Why did you do that?
You seemed to be in an awful big hurry to get out of here. My guess is
 that when Anorak gave you the Copper Key, he also gave you some sort of
clue about the location of the First Gate. Right? That’s where you’re headed
 next, isn’t it?
Yeah,
So unless you can nullify my spell—and I’m betting you can’t, Mr.
 Tenth-Level Warrior—that barrier will keep you in here until just after
 midnight, when the server resets. All of those traps you disarmed on your
 way down here will reset. That should slow down your exit considerably.
Yes,
It will.
And while you’re busy making your way back up to the surface, I’ll have
 another shot at defeating Acererak. And this time I’m gonna destroy him.
 Then I’ll be right behind you, mister.
If the king has been beating your ass for the past five
 weeks, what makes you think you’re finally going to win tonight?
Competition brings out the best in me,
It always has. And
 now I’ve got some serious competition.
You’re evil, you know that?
Chaotic Neutral, sugar.
I’m still going to beat you to the First Gate, you
 know.
Probably,
But this is just the beginning. You’ll still have to
 clear it. And there are still two more keys to find, and two more gates to
 clear. Plenty of time for me to catch up with you, and then leave you in the
 dust, ace.
We’ll see about that, lady.
You’re famous
 now,
You realize what that means, don’t you?
I haven’t had much time to think about it yet.
Well, I have. I’ve been thinking about it for the past five weeks. Your
 avatar’s name on that Scoreboard is going to change everything. The public
 will become obsessed with the contest again, just like when it first began. The
 media is already going berserk. By tomorrow, Parzival will be a household
 name.
You could become famous in the real world too,
If you reveal
your true identity to the media.
I’m not an idiot.
Good. Because there are billions of dollars up for grabs, and now
 everyone is going to assume you know how and where to find the egg. There
 are a lot of people who would kill for that information.
I know that,
And I appreciate your concern. But I’ll be fine.
What would
 you do if you won?
How would you spend all that
 money?
I don’t know,
The usual, I guess. Move into a mansion. Buy a
 bunch of cool shit. Not be poor.
Wow. Big dreamer,
And after you buy your mansion and your
 ‘cool shit,’ what will you do with the hundred and thirty billion you’ll have
 left over?
I’d have a nuclear-powered interstellar spacecraft constructed in Earth’s
 orbit,
I’d stock it with a lifetime supply of food and water, a self
sustaining biosphere, and a supercomputer loaded with every movie, book,
 song, videogame, and piece of artwork that human civilization has ever
 created, along with a stand-alone copy of the OASIS. Then I’d invite a few of
 my closest friends to come aboard, along with a team of doctors and
 scientists, and we’d all get the hell out of Dodge. Leave the solar system and
 start looking for an extrasolar Earthlike planet.
That’s pretty ambitious,
But you do
 realize that nearly half the people on this planet are starving, right?
Yes, I know,
The reason so many people are starving
is because we’ve wrecked the planet. The Earth is dying, you know? It’s time
 to leave.
That’s a pretty negative outlook,
If I win that dough, I’m
 going to make sure everyone on this planet has enough to eat. Once we tackle
 world hunger, then we can figure out how to fix the environment and solve
 the energy crisis.
Right,
And after you pull off that miracle, you
 can genetically engineer a bunch of Smurfs and unicorns to frolic around this
 new perfect world you’ve created.
I’m being serious,
You really think it’s that simple?
That you can just write a check
 for two hundred and forty billion dollars and fix all the world’s problems?
I don’t know. Maybe not. But I’m gonna give it a shot.
If you win.
Right. If I win.
I’ll see you around, Parzival.
Yeah,
See ya.
Hey, Art3mis?
Try playing on the left side,
That’s how I won. I
 think he might be easier to beat if he’s playing the stork.
Greetings, Art3mis,
What is it that you seek?
real thing.
Hello
tape drive.
My God, it’s full of stars,
Also Sprach
 Zarathustra
Video Fever
Hi, David!
Hi, David!
Hi, Howie!
How’s it going?
Pretty good,
Hey, you wanna take this
 over?
Sure,
Thanks!
Bye, David!
Bye!
Ah, David! Nice of you to join us!
rules
Cue Card Power-Up.
play itself
the only winning move is not to play.
Edgar Nash, Gunter Expert
—appears that the avatar named Parzival received slightly more points for
 being the first to find the Copper Key,
Then, early this morning, Parzival’s score increased another one
 hundred thousand points, and a Copper Gate icon appeared beside his score.
 The same change occurred to Art3mis’s score a few hours later. This seems
 to indicate that both of them have now completed the first of the three gates.
The famous Three Gates that James Halliday spoke of in the Anorak’s
 Invitation video?
The very same.
But Mr. Nash. After five years, how is it that two avatars accomplished
 this feat on the same day, within just a few hours of each other?
Well, I think there’s only one plausible answer. These two people,
 Parzival and Art3mis, must be working together. They’re probably both
 members of what is known as a ‘gunter clan.’ These are groups of egg
 hunters who—
—joining us live from his home in Oregon. Thanks for being with us
 today, Mr. Morrow!
No problem,
Let me start off
 by asking what your reaction is to the events of the last twenty-four hours.
 Were you surprised to see those names appear on Halliday’s Scoreboard?
Surprised? Yes, a little, I suppose. But ‘excited’ is probably a better word.
 Like everyone else, I’ve been watching and waiting for this to happen. Of
 course, I wasn’t sure if I’d still be alive when it finally did! I’m glad that I
 am. It’s all very exciting, isn’t it?
Do you think these two gunters, Parzival and Art3mis, are working
 together?
I have no idea. I suppose it’s possible.
As you know, Gregarious Simulation Systems keeps all OASIS user
 records confidential, so we have no way of knowing their true identities. Do
 you think either of them will come forward and reveal themselves to the
 public?
Not if they’re smart, they won’t,
If I were in their shoes, I’d do everything possible to
 remain anonymous.
Why do you say that?
Because once the world discovers who they really are, they’ll never have
 a moment’s peace afterward. If people think you can help them find
 Halliday’s egg, they’ll never leave you alone. Trust me, I know from
 experience.
Yes, I suppose you do.
However, this
network has contacted both Parzival and Art3mis via e-mail, and we’ve
 extended generous monetary offers to each of them in return for an exclusive
 interview, either in the OASIS or here in the real world.
I’m sure they’re receiving many such offers. But I doubt they’ll accept,
Anyone smart enough to accomplish what they
 have should know better than to risk everything by talking to the vultures in
 the media.
Ah, Mr. Morrow … I really don’t
 think that’s called for.
Too bad. I do.
Well, moving on … Do you have
 any predictions about what changes we might see on the Scoreboard in the
 weeks to come?
I’m betting that those other eight empty slots will fill up pretty quickly.
What makes you think so?
One person can keep a secret, but not two,
I don’t know. Maybe I’m wrong. But I am sure of one
 thing. The Sixers are going to use every dirty trick at their disposal to learn
 the location of the Copper Key and the First Gate.
You’re referring to the employees of Innovative Online Industries?
Yes. IOI. The Sixers. Their sole purpose is to exploit loopholes in the
 contest rules and subvert the intention of Jim’s will. The very soul of the
 OASIS is at stake here. The last thing Jim would have wanted is for his
 creation to fall into the hands of a fascist multinational conglomerate like
 IOI.
Mr. Morrow, IOI owns this network.…
Of course they do!
They own practically
 everything! Including you, pretty boy! I mean, did they tattoo a UPC code on
 your ass when they hired you to sit there and spout their corporate
 propaganda?
Quick!
You better cut me off before I say anything else!
Thank you again
 for joining us today, Mr. Morrow. Unfortunately that’s all the time we have
 to speak with him. Now let’s go back to Judy, who is standing by with a
panel of renowned Halliday scholars—
quintessential geek girl,
She became the lone female in our weekly
 gaming group,
And every single one of the guys developed
 a massive crush on her, including Jim. She was actually the one who gave
 him the nickname ‘Anorak,’ a British slang term for an obsessive geek. I
 think Jim adopted it as the name of his D and D character to impress her. Or
 maybe it was his way of trying to let her know he was in on the joke. The
 opposite sex made Jim extremely nervous, and Kira was the only girl I ever
 saw him speak to in a relaxed manner. But even then, it was only in
 character, as Anorak, during the course of our gaming sessions. And he
 would only address her as Leucosia, the name of her D and D character.
personal reasons.
we were no longer in
 the videogame business,
It had become a self-imposed prison for humanity,
A pleasant place for the world to hide from its problems while
 human civilization slowly collapses, primarily due to neglect.
retired
We had a falling-out,
and that is something I refuse to discuss, now or in the future. Suffice it to
 say, I have not communicated with James Halliday in over ten years.
Then why did Halliday leave you his vast collection of classic coin
operated videogames?
All of his other material
 possessions are to be auctioned off. If you were no longer friends, why are
 you the only person he left anything to?
I have no idea,
Did you have any idea what Halliday was working on all those years he
 was in seclusion?
No. I suspected he might be working on some new game. Jim was always
 working on a new game. For him, making games was as necessary as
 breathing. But I never imagined he was planning something … of this
 magnitude.
As the person who knew James Halliday the best, do you have any advice
 for the millions of people who are now searching for his Easter egg? Where
 do you think people should start looking for it?
I think Jim made that pretty obvious,
Jim
 always wanted everyone to share his obsessions, to love the same things he
 loved. I think this contest is his way of giving the entire world an incentive to
 do just that.
Holy shit!
I don’t believe this! Now
 you’ve cleared the motherfucking First Gate and you still haven’t phoned
 me? Call my ass! Now! The second you get this!
You dog!
You brilliant, sly, devious dog!
Hey, Aech,
What’s new?
What’s new? What’s new? You mean, other than, you know, seeing my
 best friend’s name appear at the top of the Scoreboard? Other than that, you
 mean?
Other than that, not much! Not much new at all!
Sorry it took me a while to call you. I had kind of a late night.
No shit, you had a late night!
Look at you! How can you be so
 calm! Don’t you realize what this means? This is huge! This is beyond epic! I
 mean … congratu-freakin’-lations, man!
I am
 not worthy!
Cut it out, OK? It’s really not a big deal. I haven’t actually won anything
 yet.…
Not a big deal!
Not. A. Big. Deal? Are you kidding me?
 You’re a legend now, man! You just became the first gunter in history to find
 the Copper Key! And clear the First Gate! You are a god, from this moment
 forth! Do you not realize this, fool?
Seriously. Stop it. I’m already freaked out enough as it is.
Have you seen the news? The whole world is freaking out! And the
 gunter boards are going apeshit! And everyone is talking about you, amigo.
I know. Listen, I hope you’re not pissed at me for keeping you in the
 dark. I felt really weird about not returning your calls or telling you what I
 was up to.…
Oh, come on!
You know damn well
 that if I’d been in your shoes, I would have done the same thing. That’s how
 the game is played. But
I am curious to
 know how that Art3mis chick happened to find the Copper Key and clear the
gate right after you did. Everyone seems to think you two were working
 together, but I know that’s horseshit. So what happened? Was she following
 you or something?
No, she found the key’s hiding place before I did. Last
 month, she said. She just wasn’t able to obtain the key until now.
I can’t really go into the details without, you know—
No worries. I totally understand. I wouldn’t
 want for you to accidentally drop any hints.
Actually, I should let you know where I am right now.…
How in the hell—?
Well, when I saw your name all over the newsfeeds last night, it occurred
 to me that for as long as I’ve known you, you’ve never had the dough to do
 much traveling. Any traveling, really. So I figured that if you’d found the
 hiding place of the Copper Key, it probably had to be somewhere close to
 Ludus. Or maybe even on Ludus.
Well done,
Not really. I spent hours racking my pea-sized brain before I finally
 thought to search the map of Ludus for the surface features described in the
 Tomb of Horrors module. But once I did, everything else clicked into place.
 And here I am.
Congratulations.
Yeah, well, it was pretty easy once you pointed me in the right direction.
I’ve been searching for this
 place for years, and all this time it was within walking distance of my school!
 I feel like a total moron for not figuring it out on my own.
You’re not a moron,
You deciphered the Limerick on your own,
 otherwise you wouldn’t even know about the Tomb of Horrors module,
 right?
So, you’re not pissed?
That I took advantage of my inside
 info?
No way. I would have done the same thing.
Well, regardless, I owe you one. And I won’t forget it.
Have you been inside yet?
Yeah. I came back up here to call you, while I wait for the server to reset
 at midnight. The tomb is empty right now, because your friend, Art3mis,
 already blew through here earlier today.
We’re not friends,
She just showed up, a few minutes after I got
 the key.
Did you guys throw down?
No. The tomb is a no-PvP zone.
Looks like
 you’ve still got a few hours to kill before the reset.
Yeah. I’ve been studying the original D and D module, trying to prepare
 myself,
Wanna give me any tips?
No. Not really.
Didn’t think so.
Listen, I have to ask
 you something,
Does anyone at your school know your avatar’s
 name?
No. I’ve been careful to keep it a secret. No one there knows me as
 Parzival. Not even the teachers.
Good,
I took the same precaution. Unfortunately, several of the
 gunters who frequent the Basement know that we both attend school on
 Ludus, so they might be able to connect the dots. I’m worried about one in
 particular.…
I-r0k?
He’s been calling me nonstop since your name appeared on
 the Scoreboard, asking what I know. I played dumb, and he seemed to buy it.
 But if my name shows up on the Scoreboard too, you can bet he’ll start
 bragging that he knows us. And when he starts telling other gunters that you
 and I are both students on Ludus—
Shit!
Then every gunter in the sim will be headed here to
 search for the Copper Key.
Right,
And before long, the location of the tomb will be
 common knowledge.
Well, then you better get the key before that happens.
I’ll do my best.
Now, if you’ll excuse me, I’m going to reread this thing for the hundredth
 time today.
Good luck, Aech,
Give me a call once you’ve cleared the gate.
If I clear the gate …
You will,
And when you do, we should meet in the Basement to
talk.
You got it, amigo.
Hey,
 Aech?
Yeah?
You might want to brush up on your jousting skills,
You know,
 between now and midnight.
I got ya,
Thanks, pal.
Good luck.
Daito
Shoto
captain
dwelling long neglected
neglected,
trophies
to reveal a secret or
 alert someone to a crime
fan mail,
business related
Parzival-approved
interview,
Mr. Parzival,
Welcome to Innovative Online Industries! Just a
 moment. Mr. Sorrento is already on his way to greet you.
At last!
The famous
 Parzival has graced us with his presence!
Nolan Sorrento, chief of operations. It’s an honor to meet you.
Yeah,
Likewise, I guess.
Please follow me.
Why bother bringing me here via a chatlink?
Why not just give me your sales pitch in a chat room?
Please, indulge me,
This chatlink is part of our sales pitch. We
 want to give you the same experience you’d have if you came to visit our
 headquarters in person.
the
 Sixer homeworld.
Impressive digs, wouldn’t you
 agree?
Not bad.
This is an OASIS replica of the real IOI
 towers located in downtown Columbus, right?
Yes, the Columbus complex is our company
 headquarters. Most of my team works in this central tower. Our close
 proximity to GSS eliminates any possibility of system lag. And, of course,
 Columbus doesn’t suffer from the rolling power blackouts that plague most
 major U.S. cities.
You’ve become quite the celebrity these past few days,
It must be very exciting for you. Probably a
 little scary, too, huh? Knowing you now possess information that millions of
 people would be willing to kill for?
Do you mind skipping the scare tactics and the head games? Just
 tell me the details of your offer. I have other matters to attend to.
Yes, I’m sure you do,
But please don’t jump to any conclusions about our offer. I think you’ll
 be quite surprised.
In fact, I’m certain of it.
Whatever, man.
Welcome to IOI’s Oology Division,
So, this is Sux0rz Central, eh?
There’s no need to be rude,
This could be your team.
Would I get my very own cubicle?
No. You’d have your own office, with a very nice view.
Not that you’d spend much time looking at it.
Nice gear,
Yes, it is nice, isn’t it?
Our immersion rigs are heavily
 modified, and they’re all networked together. Our systems allow multiple
 operators to control any one of our oologist’s avatars. So depending on the
 obstacles an avatar encounters during their quest, control can be instantly
 transferred to the team member with the skills best suited to deal with the
 situation.
Yeah, but that’s cheating,
Oh, come on now,
There’s no such thing.
 Halliday’s contest doesn’t have any rules. That’s one of the many colossal
 mistakes the old fool made.
All of our oologists are
 voice-linked to a support team,
Composed of Halliday
 scholars, videogame experts, pop-culture historians, and cryptologists. They
 all work together to help each of our avatars overcome any challenge and
solve every puzzle they encounter.
As you
 can see, we’ve covered all the bases, Parzival. That’s why we’re going to
 win.
Yeah,
You guys have been doing a bang-up job so far. Bravo.
 Now, why is it that we’re talking again? Oh, right. You guys have no clue
 where the Copper Key is, and you need my help to find it.
I like you, kid,
You’re bright. And you’ve got cojones. Two qualities I
 greatly admire.
city.
So I’ll just cut to the chase,
IOI wants to recruit you. As a
 consultant, to assist with our search for Halliday’s Easter egg. You’ll have all
 of our company’s vast resources at your disposal. Money, weapons, magic
 items, ships, artifacts. You name it.
What would my title be?
Chief oologist,
You’d be in charge of the entire division,
 second-in-command only to me. I’m talking about five thousand highly
 trained combat-ready avatars, all taking orders directly from you.
Sounds pretty sweet,
Of course it does. But there’s more. In exchange for your services, we’re
 willing to pay you two million dollars a year, with a one-million-dollar
 signing bonus up front. And if and when you help us find the egg, you’ll get a
 twenty-five-million-dollar bonus.
Wow,
Can I work from home, too?
No,
I’m afraid not. You’d have to relocate here to Columbus. But we’ll provide
 you with excellent living quarters here on the premises. And a private office,
 of course. Your own state-of-the-art immersion rig—
Hold on,
You mean I’d have to live in the IOI
 skyscraper? With you? And all of the other Sux— oologists?
Just until you help us find the egg.
What about benefits? Would I get health care?
 Dental? Vision? Keys to the executive washroom? Shit like that?
Of course.
So? What do you say?
Can I think about it for a few days?
Afraid not,
This could all be over in a few days. We need your
 answer now.
Just listen to me a moment before you answer,
I know
 most gunters cling to the absurd notion that IOI is evil. And that the Sixers
 are ruthless corporate drones with no honor and no respect for the ‘true spirit’
 of the contest. That we’re all sellouts. Right?
That’s putting it mildly.
Well, that’s ridiculous,
The Sixers are really no different than a Gunter clan, albeit a well-funded
 one. We share all the same obsessions as gunters. And we have the same
 goal.
You
 know, contrary to popular belief, the OASIS really won’t change that
 drastically when IOI takes control of it. Sure, we’ll have to start charging
 everyone a monthly user fee. And increase the sim’s advertising revenue. But
 we also plan to make a lot of improvements. Avatar content filters. Stricter
 construction guidelines. We’re going to make the OASIS a better place.
OK,
Count me in. Sign me up. Whatever you guys call it. I’m
 in.
But I have three minor conditions,
First, I want a fifty-million
dollar bonus when I find the egg for you guys. Not twenty-five. Is that
 doable?
Done. What are your other conditions?
I don’t want to be second-in-command,
I want your job,
 Sorrento. I want to be in charge of the whole shebang. Chief of operations. El
 Numero Uno. Oh, and I want everyone to have to call me El Numero Uno,
 too. Is that possible?
What else?
I don’t want to work with you.
You give me
 the creeps. But if your superiors are willing to fire your ass and give me your
 position, I’m in. It’s a done deal.
Could you check with your bosses and let me know if they’ll agree to
 that?
Or are they monitoring us right now? I’m betting they are.
Hi, guys! What do you say?
Of
 course they’re monitoring us,
And they’ve just informed me
 that they’re willing to agree to each of your demands.
Really?
Great! When can I start? And more importantly, when
 can you leave?
Immediately,
The company will prepare your contract and send
 it to your lawyer for approval. Then we—they will fly you here to Columbus
 to sign the paperwork and close the deal.
That should conclude
 —
Actually—
I’ve spent the last
 few seconds thinking this over a bit more, and I’m gonna have to pass on
 your offer. I think I’d rather find the egg on my own, thanks.
You and the other Sux0rz can all go fuck a duck.
Oh, you’re good! That was so good! You really had us
 going there, kid!
That’s the answer
 I was expecting. So now, let me give you our second proposal.
There’s more?
OK.
Shoot.
We’ll wire five million dollars directly to your OASIS account, right now,
 in exchange for a walkthrough up to the First Gate. That’s it. All you have to
 do is give us detailed step-by-step instructions on how to do what you’ve
 already done. We’ll take it from there. You’ll be free to continue searching
 for the egg on your own. And our transaction will remain a complete secret.
 No one ever need know of it.
Trust me, son,
You should take this offer. While you
 can.
I’ll pass,
Thanks for your
 time.
Actually, we’re not quite done here. We have one final proposal for you,
 Parzival. And I saved the best for last.
Can’t you take a hint? You can’t buy me. So piss off. Adios. Good. Bye.
Sit down, Wade.
That’s right,
We know who you are. Wade Owen
 Watts. Born August twelfth, 2024. Both parents deceased. And we also know
 where you are. You reside with your aunt, in a trailer park located at 700
 Portland Avenue in Oklahoma City. Unit 56-K, to be exact. According to our
 surveillance team, you were last seen entering your aunt’s trailer three days
 ago and you haven’t left since. Which means you’re still there right now.
There you are,
You should really get out more, Wade. It’s not healthy to spend all
 of your time indoors.
Your first instinct right now might be to log out and make a run for it,
I urge you not to make that mistake. Your trailer is currently
 wired with a large quantity of high explosives.
And my finger
 is on the detonator. If you log out of this chatlink session, you will die within
 a few seconds. Do you understand what I’m saying to you, Mr. Watts?
How—?
How did we find out who you are? And where you live?
Easy. You screwed up, kid. When you enrolled in the OASIS public school
 system, you gave them your name and address. So they could mail you your
 report cards, I suppose.
How did you find out I attend school online?
There’s been a rumor circulating on the gunter message boards the past
 few days that you and your pal Aech both go to school on Ludus. When we
 heard that, we decided to contact a few OPS administrators and offer them a
 bribe. Do you know how little a school administrator makes a year, Wade?
 It’s scandalous. One of your principals was kind enough to search the student
 database for the avatar name Parzival, and guess what?
We have your friend Aech’s school records too. But he was smart enough
 to give a fake name and address when he enrolled. So finding him will take a
 bit longer.
So, that brings me to our final proposal.
Tell us how to reach
 the First Gate. Right now. Or we will kill you. Right now.
You’re bluffing,
No, Wade. I’m not. Think about it. With everything else that’s going on
 in the world, do you think anyone will care about an explosion in some
 ghetto-trash rat warren in Oklahoma City? They’ll assume it was a drug-lab
 accident. Or maybe a domestic terrorist cell trying to build a homemade
 bomb. Either way, it will just mean there are a few hundred less human
 cockroaches out there collecting food vouchers and using up precious
 oxygen. No one will care. And the authorities won’t even blink.
You’d kill me?
To win a videogame
 contest?
Don’t pretend to be naïve, Wade,
There are billions of
 dollars at stake here, along with control of one of the world’s most profitable
 corporations, and of the OASIS itself. This is much more than a videogame
 contest. It always has been.
But you can still come out
 a winner here, kid. If you help us, we’ll still give you the five million. You
 can retire at age eighteen and spend the rest of your days living like royalty.
 Or you can die in the next few seconds. It’s your call. But ask yourself this
question—if your mother were still alive, what would she want you to do?
What’s to stop you from killing me after I give you what you want?
Regardless of what you may think, we don’t want to have to kill anyone
 unless it’s absolutely necessary. Besides, there are two more gates, right?
We might need your help to figure those out too. Personally, I
 doubt it. But my superiors feel differently. Regardless, you don’t really have
 a choice at this point, do you?
So here’s what’s going to happen next. You’re going to give
 me step-by-step instructions on how to obtain the Copper Key and clear the
 First Gate. And you’re going to stay logged into this chatlink session while
 we verify everything you tell us. Log out before I say it’s OK, and your
 whole world goes boom. Understand? Now start talking.
Sorrento,
I want you and your
 bosses to know something. You’re never going to find Halliday’s egg. You
 know why? Because he was smarter than all of you put together. It doesn’t
 matter how much money you have or who you try to blackmail. You’re going
 to lose.
Stupid move, kid,
Did you hear the news?
What news?
The Sixers are on Ludus. Thousands of them. More arriving every
 minute. They’re searching the planet, looking for the tomb.
Yeah. I’m on Ludus right now. Sixer gunships everywhere.
When I find I-r0k, I’m going to kill him. Slowly. Then,
 when he creates a new avatar, I’m going to hunt him down and kill him
 again. If that moron had kept his mouth shut, the Sixers never would have
 thought to look here.
Yeah. His forum posts were what tipped them off. Sorrento said so
 himself.
Sorrento? As in Nolan Sorrento?
They blew up your house?
Actually, it was a trailer,
In a trailer park. They killed a lot of
 people here, Aech. It’s probably already on the newsfeeds.
I’m freaking out. I’m scared.
I don’t blame you,
Thank God you weren’t home when it
 happened.…
I almost never log in from home. Luckily, the Sixers didn’t
 know that.
What about your family?
It was my aunt’s place. She’s dead, I think. We … we weren’t very
 close.
I can’t believe this!
Those evil pricks. They’re gonna
 pay, Z. Count on it. We will make them pay for this.
Where are you right now?
Do you need help? Like, a place
 to stay or something? I can wire you some money if you need it.
No, I’m OK,
But thanks, man. I really appreciate the offer.
De nada, amigo.
Listen, did the Sixers send you the same e-mail they sent me?
Yeah. Thousands of them. But I decided it was best to ignore them.
I wish I’d been smart enough to do that.
Dude, you had no way of knowing they were gonna try and kill you!
 Besides, they already had your home address. If you’d ignored their e-mails,
 they probably would have set off that bomb anyway.
Listen, Aech … Sorrento said that your school records contained a fake
 home address, and that they don’t know where to find you. But he might have
 been lying. You should leave home. Go somewhere safe. As soon as
 possible.
Don’t worry about me, Z. I stay mobile. Those bastards will never find
me.
If you say so,
But I need to
 warn Art3mis, too. And Daito and Shoto, if I can reach them. The Sixers are
 probably doing everything they can to learn their identities too.
That gives me an idea,
We should invite all three of them to
 meet us in the Basement later tonight. Say around midnight? A private chat
room session. Just the five of us.
Do you
 think they’ll all agree to come?
Yeah, if we let them know their lives depend on it.
And
 we’re going to have the world’s top five gunters together in one chat room.
 Who’s gonna sit that out?
So much for keeping the tomb’s location a secret,
It was bound to leak out eventually,
I
 just didn’t think it would happen this fast.
Aech, meet Art3mis. Art3mis, this is my best friend, Aech.
Pleasure to meet you,
Likewise.
Thanks for
 coming.
Are you kidding? How could I miss it? The very first meeting of the High
 Five.
The High Five?
Yeah,
That’s what they’re calling us on all of the message
 boards now. We hold the top five high-score slots on the Scoreboard. So
 we’re the High Five.
Right,
At least for the time being.
Aech, this is, by far, the coolest chat
 room I’ve ever seen.
Thank you.
Kind of you to say.
You’ve re-created Morrow’s basement perfectly. Every last detail. I want to
 live here.
You’ve got a permanent spot on the guest list. Log in and hang out
 anytime.
Really?
Thank you! I will. You’re the man,
 Aech.
Yes,
It’s true. I am.
Greetings,
I am Daito. And this is my little
 brother, Shoto. Thank you for the invitation. We are honored to meet all three
 of you.
All right,
Let’s get this party
 started. I’m sure you’ve all seen the news. The Sixers are swarming all over
 Ludus. Thousands of them. They’re conducting a systematic search of the
 entire surface of the planet. Even if they don’t know exactly what they’re
 looking for, it still won’t be long before they find the entrance to the tomb—
Actually,
they already found it. Over thirty
 minutes ago.
That hasn’t been reported on the newsfeeds yet,
Are you
 sure?
Afraid so. When I heard about the Sixers this morning, I
 decided to hide an uplink camera in some trees near the tomb entrance, to
 keep an eye on the area.
Son of a bitch,
Is that what I think it is?
A force field. The Sixers installed it just after the first of
 them arrived. So …
So from here on out,
any gunter who finds the tomb won’t
 be able to get inside. Not unless they can somehow get through that force
 field.
Actually, they’ve put up two force fields,
A small field
 with a larger field over it. They lower them in sequence, whenever they want
 to let more Sixers enter the tomb. Like an air lock.
Watch. They’re doing it now.
I suppose it could be worse,
If the tomb were in a
 PvP zone, those assholes would already have laser cannons and robot sentries
 mounted everywhere, to vaporize anyone who approached the area.
The Sixers have obviously been planning for this moment for some time
 now,
They won’t be able to keep everyone out for very long,
When the clans find out about this, it’ll be all-out war. There will be
 thousands of gunters attacking that force field with everything they’ve got.
 RPGs. Fireballs. Cluster bombs. Nukes. It’s gonna get ugly. They’ll turn that
 forest into a wasteland.
Yeah, but in the meantime, Sixer avatars will be farming the Copper Key
 and then filing their avatars through the First Gate, one after another, in a
 freakin’ conga line.
But how can they do this?
It’s not fair. They’re not playing fair.
They don’t have to. There are no laws in the OASIS, little brother,
The Sixers can do whatever they please. They won’t stop until
 someone stops them.
The Sixers have no honor,
You guys don’t know the half of it,
That’s why Parzival and
 I asked you all here.
Z, do you want to tell them what
 happened?
Jesus,
No joke? They tried to kill you?
Yeah. They would have succeeded, too, if I’d been at home. I was just
 lucky.
Now you all know how far the Sixers are willing to go to stop us from
beating them to the egg,
If they’re able to locate any one of us,
 we’re dead meat.
So you should all take precautions to protect yourselves and
 your identities,
If you haven’t already.
There’s still one thing I don’t understand,
How did the Sixers know to look for the tomb on Ludus? Did someone tip
 them off?
They must have seen the rumors about Parzival and Aech that were
 posted on all of the gunter message boards,
That’s how we
 knew to look there.
Didn’t I tell
 you to keep quiet, blabbermouth?
What rumors?
What’s he talking
 about? I haven’t had time to check the boards in a few days.
Several posts were made by gunters who claimed to know Parzival and
 Aech, saying they were both students on Ludus.
My brother and I have spent the past two years searching for the Tomb of
 Horrors. We’ve scoured dozens of worlds looking for it. But we never
 thought to look on Ludus. Not until we heard that you attended school there.
It never occurred to me that attending school on Ludus was something I
 needed to keep a secret,
So I didn’t.
Yeah, and it’s lucky for us that you didn’t,
Parzival unintentionally tipped me off about the tomb’s location, too.
 I never thought to look for it on Ludus, either, until his name appeared on the
 Scoreboard.
You were the first to find the tomb’s hiding place, so we owe you our
 gratitude for leading us to it.
Thanks, guys. But actually, Art3mis here found it
 first. Totally on her own. A month before I did.
Yeah, for all the good it did me,
I couldn’t defeat the lich
 at Joust. I’d been at it for weeks when this punk showed up and did it on his
 first try.
I have Aech here to thank for my jousting prowess,
We used to
 play all the time, here in the Basement. That’s the only reason I beat the king
 on my first attempt.
Ditto,
It was the same with us,
My
 brother and I have been playing Joust against one another for years, because
 the game was mentioned in Anorak’s Almanac.
Great,
Good for you guys. You
 were all prepared in advance. I’m so happy for you. Bravo.
Now, can we adjourn the
 Mutual Admiration Society and get back to the topic at hand?
Sure,
What was the topic at hand?
The Sixers?
Right! Of course!
You said they found the tomb less than an hour ago, right? So any minute
 now, they’ll reach the throne room and face off against the lich. But what do
 you think happens when multiple avatars enter the burial chamber at the same
 time?
Your names appeared on the Scoreboard on
 the same day, just a few minutes apart. So you entered the throne room
 together, didn’t you?
Yes,
And when we stepped on the dais, two
 copies of the king appeared, one for each of us to play.
Great,
So it might be possible for hundreds of Sixers to
 joust for the Copper Key at the same time. Or even thousands.
Yeah,
But to get the key, each Sixer has to beat the lich at
 Joust, which we all know isn’t easy.
The Sixers are using hacked immersion rigs,
Sorrento was
 boasting about it to me. They’ve got it set up so that different users can
 control the actions of every one of their avatars. So they can just have their
 best Joust players take control of each Sixer avatar during the match against
 Acererak. One after the other.
Cheating bastards,
The Sixers have no honor,
Yeah,
We’ve established that.
It gets worse,
Every Sixer has a support team made up of
Halliday scholars, videogame experts, and cryptologists who are there to help
 them beat every challenge and solve every puzzle they encounter. Playing
 through the WarGames simulation will be a piece of cake for them. Someone
 will just feed them the dialogue.
Unbelievable,
How are we supposed to compete with
 that?
We can’t,
Once they have the Copper Key, they’ll
 probably locate the First Gate just as quickly as we all did. It won’t take them
 very long to catch up with us. And once they have the riddle about the Jade
 Key, they’ll have their eggheads working around the clock to decipher it.
If they find the Jade Key’s hiding place before we do, they’ll barricade it,
 too,
And then the five of us will be in the same boat everyone else is
 in right now.
This isn’t
 even remotely fair,
The Sixers have a huge advantage over all of
 us. They’ve got an endless supply of money, weapons, vehicles, and avatars.
 There are thousands of them, all working together.
Right,
And each of us is on our own. Well, except for you two.
But you know what I mean. They’ve got us
 outnumbered and outgunned, and that isn’t going to change anytime soon.
What are you suggesting?
I’m not suggesting anything,
I’m just stating the facts, as I see
 them.
Good,
Because it sounded like you were about to propose
 some sort of alliance between the five of us.
So? Would that be such a terrible idea?
Yes, it would,
My brother and I hunt alone. We don’t
 want or need your help.
Oh really?
A second ago, you admitted needing Parzival’s
 help to find the Tomb of Horrors.
We would have found it on our own eventually.
Right,
It probably would have only taken you another five
 years.
Come on, Aech,
This isn’t helping.
We didn’t come here to be insulted,
We’re leaving.
Hold on, Daito,
Just wait a second, will you? Let’s just talk this
 out. We shouldn’t part as enemies. We’re all on the same side here.
No,
We’re not. You’re all strangers to us. For all we know,
 any one of you could be a Sixer spy.
This is pointless,
Only one person can be the first to find the
 egg and win the prize,
And that person will be either me or my
 brother.
That went well,
Yeah, real smooth, Aech. Way to build bridges.
What did I do?
Daito was being a complete
 asshole! Besides, it’s not like we were asking him to team up, anyway. I’m an
 avowed solo. And so are you. And Art3mis here looks like the lone-wolf type
 too.
Guilty as charged,
But even so, there is an argument
 to be made for forming an alliance against the Sixers.
Maybe,
But think about it. If you find the Jade Key before
 either of us do, are you going to be generous and tell us where it is?
Of course not.
Me neither,
So there’s no point in discussing an alliance.
Well, then it looks like the meeting is over. I should
 probably get going.
The clock is ticking. Right, boys?
Tick tock,
Good luck, fellas.
See ya around.
See ya,
What are you grinning about?
You’ve got a crush on her, don’t you?
What? On Art3mis? No—
Don’t deny it, Z. You were making googly eyes at her the whole time she
 was here.
I recorded the whole chat
 session. Do you want me to play it back for you, so you can see how silly you
 looked?
Stop being a dick.
It’s understandable, man,
That girl is super cute.
So, have you had any luck with the new riddle?
That quatrain about the Jade Key?
Quatrain?
 ‘A poem or stanza with four lines and an alternating rhyme scheme,’ 
It’s called a quatrain.
You’re too much, man.
What? That’s the proper term for it, asshead!
It’s just a riddle, dude. And no. I haven’t had any luck figuring it out yet.
Me neither,
So we probably shouldn’t be standing around
 jabbering at each other. Time to put our noses to the grindstone.
I concur,
But—
What the hell was that?
I don’t know.
Maybe a software glitch or something?
I’ve never seen a chat-room glitch like that,
Could someone else be in here? An invisible avatar, eavesdropping on
 us?
No way, Z,
You’re getting way too
 paranoid. This is an encrypted private chat room. No one can enter without
 my permission. You know that.
Right,
Relax. It was a glitch.
Listen. Let me
 know if you change your mind about needing a loan. Or a place to crash.
 OK?
I’ll be all right,
But thanks, amigo.
I’ll catch you later. Good luck, Z.
Same to you, Aech.
enchanting
making the
 climb to ninety-nine,
The captain
the whistle
I sure hope you know what you’re doing, Z.
dates,
Deadly Access
We Can Dance If We Want To.
top
dance floor.
groove zone.
up
booth
Blue Monday,
 ‘Union of the Snake,’ 
Duran Duran. Nineteen eighty-three.
Not bad, ace,
Glenmorangie. On the rocks.
So how about it,
 Percy?
Feel like cutting a rug?
Not if you keep calling me ‘Percy.’ 
beaming out
Rebel Yell
I love this song!
What’s wrong?
Can’t the boy dance?
All right,
What the hell.
Time
 After Time
I’m in love with you, Arty.
You aren’t in love with me, Z,
You don’t even know me.
Yes I do,
I know you better than I’ve ever known anyone in
 my entire life.
You only know what I want you to know. You only see what I want you
 to see.
This isn’t my real body, Wade. Or
 my real face.
I don’t care! I’m in love with your mind—with the person you are. I
 couldn’t care less about the packaging.
You’re just saying that,
Trust me. If I ever let you see me in person, you would be repulsed.
Why do you always say that?
Because I’m hideously deformed. Or I’m a paraplegic. Or I’m actually
 sixty-three years old. Take your pick.
I don’t care if you’re all three of those things. Tell me where to meet you
 and I’ll prove it. I’ll get on a plane right now and fly to wherever you are.
 You know I will.
You don’t live in the real world, Z. From what
 you’ve told me, I don’t think you ever have. You’re like me. You live inside
 this illusion.
You can’t possibly
 know what real love is.
Don’t say that!
Is it because I told you I’ve never had a real girlfriend? And that I’m a
 virgin? Because—
Of course not,
That isn’t what this is about. At all.
Then what is it about? Tell me. Please.
The Hunt. You know that. We’ve both been neglecting our quests to hang
 out with each other. We should be focused on finding the Jade Key right
 now. You can bet that’s what Sorrento and the Sixers are doing. And
 everyone else.
To hell with our competition! And the egg!
Didn’t you hear
 what I just said? I’m in love with you! And I want to be with you. More than
 anything.
I’m sorry, Z. This is all my fault. I let this get way out
 of hand. It has to stop.
What do you mean? What has to stop?
I think we should take a break. Stop spending so much time together.
Are you breaking up with me?
No, Z,
I am not breaking up with you. That would be
 impossible, because we are not together.
We’ve never even met!
So then … you’re just going to … stop talking to me?
Yes. I think that would be for the best.
For how long?
Until the Hunt is over.
But, Arty … That could take years.
I realize that. And I’m sorry. But this is how it has to be.
So winning that money is more important to you than me?
It’s not about the money. It’s about what I could do with it.
Right. Saving the world. You’re so fucking noble.
Don’t be a jerk,
I’ve been searching for the egg for over five
 years. So have you. Now we’re closer than ever to finding it. I can’t just
 throw my chance away.
I’m not asking you to.
Yes, you are. Even if you don’t realize it.
James Brown Is Dead
You jerks think you can crash my birthday party?
Nobody busts into my joint uninvited!
Let’s get this party going again, shall we?
Atomic
I’m up!
Wake Me Up Before You Go-Go
No matter where you go,
 there you are
intimate
knocking a few protons off the old hydrogen atom
G-g-good morning, Wade!
Rise and sh-sh
shine!
Good morning, Max,
I think you mean good evening, Rumpelstiltskin. It’s 7:18 p.m., OASIS
 Sta-sta-standard Time, Wednesday, December thirtieth.
Uh-oh! It appears you’ve sp-sp-sprung a leak!
Get a new joke,
Any news I should know about?
Just the usual. Wars, rioting, famine. Nothing that would interest you.
Any messages?
A few. But to answer your real question, no. Art3mis
 still hasn’t called or written you back, lover boy.
I’ve warned you. Don’t call me that, Max. You’re begging to be deleted.
Touchy, touchy. Honestly, Wade. When did you get so s-s-sensitive?
I’ll erase you, Max. I mean it. Keep it up and I’ll switch back to Wilma
 Deering. Or I’ll try out the disembodied voice of Majel Barrett.
Retract chair,
Get those legs up, you s-s-sissy! Feel the burn!
Begin morning run,
Bifrost track.
 ‘A Million Miles Away,’ the Plimsouls, Everywhere at Once,
 1983.
Change,
No one in the world ever gets what they want and that is
 beautiful.
voyeur
 channel,
In Your Eyes
new life
never even would have found the Copper Key
episode.
Parzival should have it,
He found this quest. We wouldn’t even have known
 about it, were it not for him.
And he would not have been able to
 complete the quest without our help!
You two should keep the Beta Capsule,
Urutoraman is Japan’s
 greatest superhero. His powers belong in Japanese hands.
Thank you, Parzival-san,
You are a man of
 honor.
drop
captain
whistle
Max, prep the Vonnegut for takeoff. If you’re
 not too busy.
You got it, El Comanchero!
paper doll
Max, lock up the house, and set a course for Archaide.
Aye, C-c-captain,
Li-li-light speed engaged,
 Captain,
ETA to Archaide is estimated at fifty-three
 minutes. Fifteen if you want to use the nearest stargate.
Let’s take the stargate, Max. We’re in kind of a hurry.
Pour Some Sugar on Me
collected.
cocktail cabinets.
hide
Pac-Man
 Fever
interactive fiction
go south
get sword.
Brundell.
trophies
collected
dwelling long neglected.
boobs in blue
High Five
Halliday experts,
will
Parzival-san,
Shoto-san.
Daisho Energy Drink
sitting rooms,
The Sixers killed my brother last night,
You mean they killed his avatar?
No. They broke into his apartment, pulled him out
 of his haptic chair, and threw him off his balcony. He lived on the forty-third
floor.
Are you sure he didn’t really commit
 suicide? Because his avatar had been killed?
No,
Daito did not commit seppuku. I’m sure of it. The
 Sixers broke into his apartment while we were engaged in combat with them
 on Frobozz. That’s how they were able to defeat his avatar. By killing him, in
 the real world.
I’m sorry, Shoto.
My real name is Akihide,
I want you to know my true name.
I
 appreciate your trusting me with your true name,
My true name is
 Wade.
Thank you, Wade,
You’re welcome, Akihide.
Daito’s real name was Toshiro Yoshiaki. I didn’t even know that until last
 night, until I saw the news article.
But … I thought you were his brother?
My relationship with Daito is difficult to explain.
We were not brothers. Not in real life. Just in the OASIS. Do you
 understand? We only knew each other online. I never actually met him.
Believe me, Shoto. I
understand. Aech and Art3mis are my two best friends, and I’ve never met
 either of them in real life either. In fact, you are one of my closest friends
 too.
Thank you.
We’re gunters,
We live here,
 in the OASIS. For us, this is the only reality that has any meaning.
missing millions.
Shoto!
I think
 someone is here! Someone is inside—
How do you think the Sixers found out where he lived?
I don’t know,
Daito was careful. He covered his tracks.
If they found him, they might be able to find you, too,
I know. I’ve taken precautions.
Good.
Daito would have wanted you to have this.
No, I think you should keep it. You might need it.
I have all of his other items,
I don’t need
 this. And I don’t want it.
Thank you, Shoto-san.
Thank you, Parzival,
Thank you for
 listening.
You haven’t given up yet, have you?
Of course not.
But
 finding the egg is no longer my goal. Now, I have a new quest. A far more
 important one.
And that is?
Revenge.
Please,
Accept this
 gift. To aid you in your new quest.
A Masamune?
Yes. And it’s a plus-five Vorpal Blade, too.
Arigato.
How long do you think it will take the
 Sixers to clear the Third Gate?
I don’t know,
Hopefully, long enough for us to catch up with
 them.
It’s not over until the fat lady is singing, right?
It’s not over until it’s over. And it’s not over yet.
 ‘Continue your quest by taking the
 test.’ 
The unicorn,
unicorn
test
blade runner,
For one quarter, Black Tiger lets me escape from my rotten
 existence for three glorious hours. Pretty good deal.
Zenny coins
wise men
wise men
Thank you. I am
 indebted to you. Please accept a giant robot as your reward.
giant
 robots.
X
the Holy Trinity
the Gods of the North.
priests,
The
 Temples of Syrinx.
a desolate world with rocky terrain
 and no NPC inhabitants.
Anonymous.
Discovery
Discovery,
Discovery,
be unlocked alone.
A
A
all over but the crying.
Max,
Execute security
 macro number one: Crom, strong in his mountain.
You g-g-got it, Chief!
Mr. Lynch,
My name is Michael Wilson, and I’m with
 the Credit and Collections division of Innovative Online Industries.
I’m here because you have failed to make the last
 three payments on your IOI Visa card, which has an outstanding balance in
 excess of twenty thousand dollars. Our records also show that you are
 currently unemployed and have therefore been classified as impecunious.
 Under current federal law, you are now eligible for mandatory indenturement.
 You will remain indentured until you have paid your debt to our company in
 full, along with all applicable interest, processing and late fees, and any other
 charges or penalties that you incur henceforth.
These gentlemen are here to assist me in apprehending you and
 escorting you to your new place of employment. We request that you open
 your door and grant us access to your residence. Please be aware that we are
 authorized to seize any personal belongings you have inside. The sale value
 of these items will, of course, be deducted from your outstanding credit
 balance.
Sure thing, guys. Just
 give me a minute to get my pants on. Then I’ll be right out.
Mr. Lynch, if you do not grant us access to your
 residence within ten seconds, we are authorized to enter by force. The cost of
 any damage resulting from our forced entry, including all property damage
and repair labor, will be added to your outstanding balance. Thank you.
Good-bye, Max,
Adios, Wade,
Clear!
No visible
 weapons!
Don’t move!
Or you get the juice, understand?
Mr. Lynch,
I hereby place you under corporate
 arrest.
Tell the repo team to come on up and
 clear this place out.
That was stupid. We could have sold that computer to help pay down
 your debt.
You feel sick?
Tell me now and I’ll put a mask on you.
I feel great,
OK. But if I have to clean up your puke, I’ll make sure you regret it.
Lynch, Bryce. Age twenty-two. Full citizenship. No criminal
 record. Credit Default Indenturement.
awarded
Indenturement Contract
Indentured Servitude: Your Fast Track from Debt to Success!
What can I expect after I complete my initial processing and get placed in
 my permanent position?
observation and communication
 tag.
eargear.
Your first technical support shift begins in seven hours,
You have until then to sleep. Turn left at
 the intersection in front of you and proceed to your assigned hab-unit,
 number 42G.
wacky situation comedy
 chronicling the misadventures of Tommy, a newly indentured OASIS tech
 rep struggling to achieve his goals of financial independence and on-the-job
 excellence!
perk points
spend
HotCock007.
Good morning, Mr. HotCock007,
Thank you for calling
 technical support. I’m tech rep number 338645. How may I help you this
 evening?
Uh, yeah …
I just bought this bad-ass sword, and
 now I can’t even use it! I can’t even attack nothing with it. What the hell is
 wrong with this piece of shit? Is it broke?
Sir, the only problem is that you’re a complete fucking moron,
courtesy violation
Sir, did you purchase this sword in an online auction?
Yeah,
Paid out the ass for it too.
Just a moment, sir, while I examine the item.
What?! That ain’t fair! The guy who sold it to me didn’t say nothing
 about that!
Sir, it’s always advisable to make sure your avatar can actually use an
 item before you purchase it.
Goddammit!
Well, what am I supposed to do with it now?
You could shove it up your ass and pretend you’re a corn dog.
Sir, you might want to keep the item stored in your
 inventory until your avatar has attained tenth level. Or you may wish to put
 the item back up for auction yourself and use the proceeds to purchase a
 similar weapon. One with a power level commensurate to that of your
 avatar.
Huh?
Whaddya mean?
Save it or sell it.
Oh.
Can I help you with anything else today, sir?
No, I don’t guess—
Great. Thank you for calling technical support. Have an outstanding day.
Lights,
give a user carte blanche inside the company network.
Sam Lowery
test account,
X
unknown.
port wine stains.
Henry Swanson,
mobile,
Recent
 Access Points.
suicide
be disposed of.
I need to use the bathroom,
Good morning, Mr. Tuttle,
Floor
 please?
Lobby,
Harry Tuttle
Sir?
Sir, your ear is bleeding.
A lot.
thanks,
Good morning, Mr. Watts,
Where to?
high-tech
 urban street wear.
dichotomy wear,
cooling-off period
Welcome to the Plug,
We
 have several bays free, so there’s no waiting. Package pricing information is
 displayed right here.
I’d like to rent one of the deluxe rigs for twelve hours,
You have to pay in advance, you realize?
I also want to rent a fat-pipe connection. I need to upload a
 large amount of data to my account.
Uploading costs extra. How much data?
Ten zettabytes.
Damn,
What you uploading? The Library of Congress?
I also want the Mondo Upgrade Package,
Sure thing,
Your total comes to eleven
 thousand big ones. Just put your thumb on the drum and we’ll get you all
 fixed up.
Bay
 fourteen. Last door on your right. The restroom is at the end of the hall. If
you leave any kind of mess in the bay, we’ll have to keep your deposit.
 Vomit, urine, semen, that kinda thing. And I’m the guy who has to clean it
 up, so do me a solid and show some restraint, will ya?
You got it.
Enjoy.
Thanks.
Max?
H
h-hey there, compadre!
H-h-how goes it?
Things are looking up, pal. Now strap in. We’ve got a lot of work to do.
Z!
What the hell, man? Where
 have you been? I’ve been trying to reach you for over a week!
So have I,
Where were you? And how did you get those
 files from the Sixer database?
It’s a long story,
First things first.
Have you two left your homes?
And you’re each logged in from a safe location?
Yes,
I’m in a manga cafe right now.
And I’m at the Vancouver airport,
I’m logged in from a germ-ridden public OASIS
 booth right now. I ran out of my house with nothing but the clothes on my
 back, so I hope that Sixer data you sent us is legit.
It is,
Trust me.
How can you be sure of that?
Because I hacked into the Sixer Database and downloaded it myself.
And how,
 exactly, did you manage that, Z?
I assumed a fake identity and masqueraded as an indentured servant to
 infiltrate IOI’s corporate headquarters. I’ve been there for the past eight days.
 I just now escaped.
Holy shit!
Seriously?
Dude, you have balls of solid adamantium,
Respect.
Thanks. I think.
Let’s assume you’re not totally bullshitting us,
How does
 a lowly indent get access to secret Sixer dossier files and company memos?
Indents have limited access to the company intranet
 via their hab-unit entertainment system, from behind the IOI firewall. From
 there, I was able to use a series of back doors and system exploits left by the
original programmers to tunnel through the network and hack directly into
 the Sixers’ private database.
You did that? All by yourself?
That is correct, sir.
It’s a miracle they didn’t catch you and kill you,
Why
 would you take such a stupid risk?
Why do you think? To try and find a way to get through their shield and
 reach the Third Gate.
It was the only plan I could come up with
 on such short notice.
Z,
you are one crazy son of a bitch.
But that’s why I love you, man!
Of course, when you found out they had secret
 files on each of us, you just couldn’t resist looking at them, could you?
I had to look at them!
To find out how much they knew about
 each of us! You would have done the same thing.
No, I wouldn’t have. I respect other people’s
 privacy!
Art3mis, chill out!
He probably saved your life, you
 know.
Fine,
Forget it.
I’m sending each of you a copy of all the Sixer data I smuggled out. Ten
 zettabytes of it. You should have it now.
The size of their database on Halliday is unreal. His
 whole life is in there. They’ve collected interviews with everyone Halliday
 ever knew. It could take months to read through them all.
Whoa!
This is incredible.
How the
 hell did you escape from IOI with all of this stuff?
By being extra sneaky.
Aech is right,
You are certifiably nuts.
Thanks for the warning, Z. I owe
 you one.
you’re welcome,
Yes,
So do I. Thanks.
Don’t mention it, guys,
Well?
Hit us with the bad news already. How close are the
 Sixers to clearing the Third Gate?
Dig this,
They haven’t even figured out how to open it
 yet.
Oh yes! Oh yes!
You’re kidding, right?
You’re not kidding?
How is that possible? Sorrento has
 the Crystal Key and he knows where the gate is. All he has to do is open the
 damn thing and step inside, right?
That was true for the first two gates,
But Gate Three is
 different.
Check this
 out. It’s from the Sixers’ video archive. It’s a vidcap of their first attempt to
 open the gate.
The castle entrance
 will open for an avatar who holds a copy of the Crystal Key,
If
 an avatar doesn’t have a copy of the key, he can’t cross the threshold and
 enter the castle, even if the doors are already open.
Charity, hope,
 faith,
Whenever
 Sorrento is logged in, he has a team of consultants and researchers watching
 his every move,
You can hear their voices on some of the vidcaps,
 feeding him suggestions and advice through his comlink. So far, they haven’t
 been much help. Watch—
They try every asinine thing you can imagine,
Sorrento recites
 the words on the gate in Latin. And Elvish. And Klingon. Then they get hung
 up on reciting First Corinthians 13:13, a Bible verse that contains the words
 ‘charity, hope, and faith.’ Apparently, ‘charity, hope, and faith’ are also the
 names of three martyred Catholic saints. The Sixers have been trying to
 attach some significance to that for the past few days.
Morons,
Halliday was an atheist.
They’re getting desperate now,
Sorrento has tried everything but
 genuflecting, doing a little dance, and sticking his pinky finger in the
 keyhole.
That’s probably next up on his agenda,
Charity, hope, faith,
Where do I know that from?
Yeah,
Those words do sound familiar.
It took me a while to place them too,
Say them in reverse order,
Better yet, sing them in reverse
 order.
Faith, hope, charity,
Faith and
 hope and charity …
The heart and the brain and the body …
Give you three … as a magic number!
Schoolhouse Rock!
See?
I knew you guys would get it. You’re a smart bunch.
 ‘Three Is a Magic Number,’ music and lyrics by Bob Dorough,
Written in
 1973.
I have a theory. I think this might be Halliday’s way of
telling us how many keys are required to open the Third Gate.
It takes three.
No more, no less,
You don’t have to guess,
Three,
is the magic number.
We have four copies of
 the key. If at least three of us can reach the gate, we can get it open.
What then?
Do we all enter the gate at the same time?
What if only one of us can enter the gate once it’s open?
I doubt Halliday would have set it up like that,
Who knows what that crazy bastard was thinking?
He’s
 toyed with us every step of the way, and now he’s doing it again. Why else
 would he require three copies of the Crystal Key to open the final gate?
Maybe because he wanted to force us to work together?
Or he just wanted the contest to end with a big, dramatic finale,
Think about it. If three avatars enter the Third Gate at the exact
 same moment, then it becomes a race to see who can clear the gate and reach
 the egg first.
Halliday was one crazy, sadistic bastard,
Yeah,
You got that right.
Look at it this way,
If Halliday hadn’t set up the Third Gate
 to require three keys … the Sixers might have already found the egg by
 now.
But the Sixers have a dozen avatars with copies of the Crystal Key,
They could open the gate right now, if they were smart enough to
 figure out how.
Dilettantes,
It’s their own fault for not knowing all the
 Schoolhouse Rock! lyrics by heart. How did those fools even get this far?
By cheating,
Remember?
Oh, that’s right. I keep forgetting.
Just because the Sixers haven’t opened the gate yet doesn’t mean they
 won’t figure it out eventually,
Shoto’s right. Sooner or later they’ll make the Schoolhouse
 Rock! connection. So we can’t waste any more time.
Well, what are we waiting for?
We know where
 the gate is and how to open it! So let’s do it! And may the best gunter win!
You’re forgetting something, Shoto-san,
Parzival here still
 hasn’t told us how we’re going to get past that shield, fight our way through
 the Sixers’ army, and get inside the castle.
You do have a
 plan for that, don’t you, Z?
Of course,
I was just getting to that.
This shield is going to drop on
 its own, at noon on Monday, about thirty-six hours from now. And then
 we’re going to walk right through the castle’s front entrance.
The shield is going to drop? On its own?
The clans
 have been lobbing nukes at that sphere for the past two weeks, and they
 haven’t even scratched it. How are you going to get it to ‘drop on its own’?
I’ve already taken care of it,
You guys are gonna have to trust
 me.
I trust you, Z,
But even if that shield does drop, to reach the
 castle, we’ll still have to fight our way through the largest army in the
 OASIS.
What about these fools? And their
 tanks? And their gunships?
Obviously, we’re going to need a little help,
A lot of help,
And who, exactly, are we going to convince to help us wage war against
 the entire Sixer army?
Everyone,
Every single gunter on the grid.
I’m going to send this message out tonight, to every single
 OASIS user.
Knavery?
Were you using
 a thesaurus when you wrote this?
I was trying to make it sound, you know, grand,
Official.
Me likey, Z,
It really gets the blood stirring.
Thanks, Aech.
So that’s it? This is your plan?
Spam the entire OASIS,
 asking for help?
More or less, yeah. That’s the plan.
And you really think everyone will just show up and help us fight the
 Sixers?
Just for the hell of it?
Yes,
I do.
He’s right. No one wants the Sixers to win the contest. And
 they definitely don’t want IOI to take control of the OASIS. People will jump
 at a chance to help bring the Sixers down. And what gunter is gonna pass up
 a chance to fight in such an epic, history-making battle?
But won’t the clans think we’re just trying to manipulate them?
So that we can reach the gate ourselves?
Of course,
But most of them have already given up. Everyone
 knows the end of the Hunt is at hand. Don’t you think most people would
rather see one of us win the contest, instead of Sorrento and the Sixers?
You’re right. That e-mail just might
 work.
Z,
you are an evil, sublime genius!
 When that e-mail goes out, the media will go apeshit! The word will spread
 like wildfire. By this time tomorrow, every avatar in the OASIS will be
 headed to Chthonia.
Let’s hope so,
Oh, they’ll show up, all right,
But how many of them will
 actually fight, once they see what we’re up against? Most of them will
 probably set up lawn chairs and eat popcorn while they watch us get our
 asses kicked.
That’s definitely a possibility,
But the clans will help us, for
 sure. They’ve got nothing to lose. And we don’t have to defeat the entire
 Sixer army. We just have to punch a hole through it, get inside the castle, and
 reach the gate.
Three of us have to reach the gate,
If only one or two of us
 make it inside, we’re screwed.
Correct,
So we should all try extremely hard not to get killed.
Even if we get the gate open, we still have to contend with the gate itself,
It’s bound to be harder to clear than the first two.
Let’s worry about the gate later,
Once we reach it.
Fine,
Let’s do this thing.
I second that,
So, you two are actually gonna go along with this?
You got a better idea, sister?
No. Not really.
OK then,
It’s settled.
I’m sending each of you a copy of this message,
Start sending it out tonight, to everyone on your contact list. Post it on
 your blogs. Broadcast it on your POV channels. We’ve got thirty-six hours to
 spread the word. That should be enough time for everyone to gear up and get
 their avatars to Chthonia.
As soon as the Sixers catch wind of this, they’ll start preparing for an
 assault,
They’re gonna pull out all the stops.
They might just laugh it off,
They think their shield is
impregnable.
It is,
So I hope you’re right about being able to shut it
 down.
Don’t worry.
Why would I be worried?
Maybe you’ve forgotten,
 but I’m homeless and on the run for my life right now! I’m currently logged
 in from a public terminal at an airport, paying for bandwidth by the minute. I
 can’t fight a war from here, much less try to clear the Third Gate. And I don’t
 have anywhere to go.
I don’t think I can stay where I am either. I’m in a rented
 booth at a public manga cafe in Osaka. I don’t have much privacy. And I
 don’t think it’s safe for me to stay here if the Sixers have agents out looking
 for me.
Any suggestions?
I hate to break it to you guys, but I’m homeless and logged in from a
 public terminal right now too,
I’ve been hiding out from the Sixers
 for over a year, remember?
I’ve got an RV,
You’re all welcome to crash with me. But I
 don’t think I can make it to Columbus, Vancouver, and Japan in the next
 thirty-six hours.
I think I might be able to help you guys out,
Have any of you ever been to Oregon?
It’s lovely this time of
 year.
How did you get in here?
This is a private chat room.
Yes, I know,
I’m afraid I’ve
 been eavesdropping on the four of you for quite some time now. And I hope
 you’ll accept my sincere apologies for invading your privacy. I did it with
 only the best intentions, I promise you.
With all due respect, sir,
You didn’t answer his question.
 How did you gain access to this chat room without an invitation? And
 without any of us even knowing you were here?
Forgive me,
I can see why this might concern you. But you
 needn’t worry. My avatar has many unique powers, including the ability to
 enter private chat rooms uninvited.
Prior to the original launch of the OASIS, when
 Jim and I created our avatars, we gave ourselves superuser access to the
 entire simulation. In addition to being immortal and invincible, our avatars
 could go pretty much anywhere and do pretty much anything. Now that
 Anorak is gone, my avatar is the only one with these powers.
No one else has the ability to eavesdrop on you.
 Especially not the Sixers. OASIS chat-room encryption protocols are rock
 solid, I assure you.
My presence here
 notwithstanding.
He knocked over that stack of comic books!
After our
 first meeting in here, remember? I told you it wasn’t a software glitch.
That was me. I can be pretty
 clumsy at times.
Mr. Morrow—,
Please,
Call me Og.
All right,
Og. Would you mind telling us why you’ve been
 eavesdropping on us?
Because I want to help you,
And from what I heard a
 moment ago, it sounds as though you could all use my help.
Please,
 don’t misunderstand me,
I’m not going to give you any clues,
 or provide you with any information to help you reach the egg. That would
 ruin all the fun, wouldn’t it?
Just before he died, I promised Jim that, in his absence, I would do
 everything I could to protect the spirit and integrity of his contest. That’s why
 I’m here.
But, sir—Og,
In your autobiography, you wrote that you and
 James Halliday didn’t speak during the last ten years of his life.
Come on, kid,
You can’t
 believe everything you read.
Actually, that statement was
 mostly true. I didn’t speak with Jim for the last decade of his life. Not until
 just a few weeks before he died.
At
 the time, I didn’t even know he was sick. He just called me up out of the
 blue, and we met in a private chat room, much like this one. Then he told me
 about his illness, the contest, and what he had planned. He was worried there
 might still be a few bugs in the gates. Or that complications might arise after
 he was gone that would prevent the contest from proceeding as he’d
 intended.
You mean like the Sixers?
Exactly,
Like the Sixers. So Jim asked me to monitor the
 contest, and to intervene if it ever became necessary.
To be honest, I didn’t really want the responsibility. But it was the dying
 wish of my oldest friend, so I agreed. And for the past six years, I’ve watched
 from the sidelines. And even though the Sixers have done everything to stack
 the odds against you, somehow you four have persevered. But now, after
 hearing you describe your current circumstances, I think the time has finally
 come for me to take action, to maintain the integrity of Jim’s game.
I want to offer the four of you sanctuary at my home here in Oregon,
From here, you’ll be able to execute your plan and complete your quest
 in safety, without having to worry about Sixer agents tracking you down and
 kicking in your door. I can provide each of you with a state-of-the-art
 immersion rig, a fiber-optic connection to the OASIS, and anything else you
 might need.
Thank you, sir!
It’s the least I can do.
That’s an incredibly kind offer, Mr. Morrow,
But I live in
 Japan.
I know, Shoto,
I’ve already chartered a private jet for you. It’s
 waiting at the Osaka airport. If you send me your current location, I’ll arrange
 for a limo to pick you up and take you to the runway.
Arigato, Morrow
san.
Don’t mention it, kid.
Young lady, I understand
 that you’re currently at the Vancouver airport? I’ve made travel arrangements
 for you, as well. A driver is currently waiting for you in the baggage claim
 area, holding a sign with the name ‘Benatar’ on it. He’ll take you to the plane
 I’ve chartered for you.
Thank you, Og,
Thank
 you, thank you, thank you!
You’re welcome, dear,
Aech, I understand that you
 have a vehicle, and that you’re currently in the vicinity of Pittsburgh?
If you wouldn’t mind driving to Columbus to retrieve your friend
 Parzival here, I’ll arrange for a jet to pick up both of you at the Columbus
 airport. That is, if you boys don’t mind sharing a ride?
No, that sounds perfect,
Thanks,
 Og.
Yes, thank you,
You’re a lifesaver.
I hope so.
Safe travels, all of you. I’ll see you soon.
Well, this blows,
Art3mis and Shoto get limos,
 and I have to bum a ride to the airport with your ugly ass? In some shit-heap
RV?
It’s not a shit-heap,
And you’re welcome to take a
 cab, asshole.
This is gonna be interesting,
The four of us are finally going to meet in person.
It will be an honor,
I’m looking forward to it.
Yeah,
I can’t wait.
It’s a
 Plug franchise. Call me when you get here, and I’ll meet you out front.
Will do,
Listen, I should warn you. I don’t look anything like
 my avatar.
So? Who does? I’m not really this tall. Or muscular. And my nose is
 slightly bigger—
I’m just warning you. Meeting me might be … kind of a shock for you.
OK. Then why don’t you just tell me what you look like right now?
I’m already on the road,
I’ll see you in a
 few hours, OK?
OK. Drive safe, amigo.
Call to Arms
Hey, Aech,
How goes it?
It’s going good, Z,
All sunshine and rainbows.
Well,
Look at us. Here we are.
Yeah,
Here we are.
It’s good to see you, old friend,
Thanks
 for coming to get me.
It’s good to see you too,
Christ, Aech,
I knew
 you were hiding something. But I never imagined …
What?
You never imagined what?
That the famous Aech, renowned gunter and the most feared and ruthless
 arena combatant in the entire OASIS, was, in reality, a …
A fat black chick?
I was going to say ‘young African American woman.’ 
There’s a reason I never told you, you know.
And I’m sure it’s a good one,
But it really doesn’t matter.
It doesn’t?
Of course not. You’re my best friend, Aech. My only friend, to be
 honest.
Well, I still want to explain.
OK. But can it wait until we’re in the air?
We’ve got a long way
 to travel. And I’ll feel a lot safer once we’ve left this city in the dust.
We’re on our way, amigo,
OK, Aech,
Tell me your story.
The whole thing
 was originally my mother’s idea,
H
How did your mother react when she found out you had a girlfriend?
Well, it turns out that my mother had her own set of deep-seated
 prejudices,
She kicked me out of the house and said she never
 wanted to see me again. I was homeless for a little while. I lived in a series of
 shelters. But eventually I earned enough competing in the OASIS arena
leagues to buy my RV, and I’ve been living in it ever since. I usually only
 stop moving when the RV’s batteries need to recharge.
It looks just like Rivendell,
It looks exactly like Rivendell in the Lord of the Rings movies,
Og’s wife was a big Tolkien fan,
 remember? He built this place for her.
Welcome, my friends!
Welcome
to my home!
Thank you, sir,
Thanks for inviting us here.
Ah, you must be Aech,
I recognize your voice.
And you
 must be Wade—I mean, Parzival! Welcome! Welcome! It’s truly an honor to
 meet you both!
The honor is ours,
We really can’t thank you enough for helping
 us.
You’ve already thanked me enough, so stop it!
I can’t
 tell you how good it is to have visitors. Sad to say, I’ve been all alone here
 since Kira died.
Alone except for
 my cooks, maids, and gardeners, of course. But they all live here too, so they
 don’t really count as visitors.
Have the others
 arrived yet? Shoto and Art3mis?
Art3mis
What?
What’s so funny?
Yes,
Art3mis arrived first, several hours ago, and
 Shoto’s plane got here about thirty minutes before you arrived.
Are we going to meet them now?
Art3mis felt that meeting you two right now would be
 an unnecessary distraction. She wanted to wait until after the ‘big event.’ And
 Shoto seemed to agree.
It probably is for the
 best, you know. You’ve all got a big day ahead of you.
Where are they now?
They’re already logged in,
 preparing for your assault on the Sixers!
Follow me! The hour
 draws near!
Listen,
 I know this probably isn’t the time,
But I’m a huge fan of your work.
 I grew up playing Halcydonia Interactive’s educational games. They taught
 me how to read, write, do math, solve puzzles …
That’s wonderful to hear,
My wife
 and I were very proud of those games. I’m so glad you have fond memories
 of them.
I promise to give you a tour later, when all the excitement is over,
And here we are!
These are my
 OASIS immersion bays. They’re all top-of-the-line Habashaw rigs. OIR
Ninety-four hundreds.
Ninety-four hundreds? No kidding?
Wicked.
Where are the others?
Art3mis and Shoto are already in bays two and three,
Bay one
 is mine. You two can take your pick of the others.
You’ll find haptic suits of all sizes in
 the dressing rooms. Now, get yourselves suited and booted!
Excellent!
Now grab a bay and log in. The clock is ticking!
Good luck, Aech,
Good luck, Z,
Thanks
 again, Og.
The whole world is rooting
 for the four of you. Try not to let them down.
We’ll do our best.
I know you will.
Og, can I ask
 you one question?
If you’re going to ask me what’s inside the Third
 Gate, I have no idea,
And even if I did, I wouldn’t tell you. You
 should know that.…
No, that’s not it. I wanted to ask what it was that ended
 your friendship with Halliday. In all the research I’ve done, I’ve never been
 able to find out. What happened?
It was because of Kira. My wife.
Like me, he’d been in love with her since high school.
Of course, he never had the courage to act on it. So she never knew how he
 felt about her. And neither did I. He didn’t tell me about it until the last time I
 spoke to him, right before he died. Even then, it was hard for him to
 communicate with me. Jim was never very good with people, or with
 expressing his emotions.
Even after Kira and I got engaged, I think Jim still harbored some fantasy
 of stealing her away from me. But once we got married, he abandoned that
 notion. He told me he’d stopped speaking to me because of the overwhelming
 jealousy he felt. Kira was the only woman he ever loved.
I can understand why Jim felt that way. Kira was very
 special. It was impossible not to fall in love with her.
You
 know what it’s like to meet someone like that, don’t you?
I do,
Thank you, Mr. Morrow. Thank you for telling me all of that.
You’re quite welcome,
Good luck, Parzival. You’re going to need it.
What are you going to do?
During the fight?
Sit back and watch, of course!
This looks to be the most epic
 battle in videogame history.
Reindeer
 Flotilla Setec Astronomy.
Leopardon!
Change
 Marveller!
Nice entrance, ya big show-off,
Did you show up late on purpose?
Not my fault, I swear,
There was a long
 line at the stargate.
Every transport terminal on the
 planet has been spitting out avatars since last night,
This is unreal. I’ve never
 seen so many ships or avatars in one place.
Me neither,
I’m surprised the GSS servers can handle the
 load, with so much activity in one sector. But there doesn’t seem to be any
 lag at all.
So, Parzival,
It’s showtime, old friend. If that sphere doesn’t come down like you
 promised, this is going to be pretty embarrassing.
 ‘Han will have that shield down,’ 
 ‘We’ve got to give
him more time!’ 
Aech is right. It’s still six minutes to noon.
I have a bad feeling about this,
Yeah,
Me too.
Welcome to Castle Anorak,
We’ve been expecting you.
I must say, we are a bit surprised so many of you showed up here today. By
 now it must be obvious, to even the most ignorant among you, that nothing
 can get past our shield.
You’re wrong, Sorrento. We’re coming in. At noon. All of us.
You’re welcome to try,
Kiryu!
giant
Oh shit,
Come on!
Uh-oh,
Here he comes.
It is on!
It is on like Red Dawn!
I think we’ve reached the final boss,
Screw this, guys,
I don’t think we can destroy that thing.
Astute observation, Z,
Got any bright ideas?
How about I distract him while the three of you
 cut around and head for the castle entrance?
Sounds like a plan,
Go!
This bastard is all mine!
Hurry,
The castle entrance is wide open!
Shoto,
We’re going inside now! Let’s go!
Go ahead,
I’ll be right behind you.
Shoto!
What are you waiting for? Let’s go!
Go on without me,
I owe this son of a bitch some payback.
Looks like you’ll be wiping with your left hand now, Sorrento!
Shoto!
Look out!
No fair,
You could have saved at least one of them for me.
Congrats on wasting Sorrento,
It was an epic throwdown,
 for sure. But you’re still a complete idiot. You know that, right?
Yeah.
I know.
You’re such a selfish asshole!
What if you’d gotten
 yourself killed too?
I didn’t, though. Did I?
So chill out and let’s open this thing.
 ‘Three is a magic number,’ 
That did it!
Holy shit. I can’t believe this. We’re really
 here. Standing in front of the Third Gate.
Finally.
Clockwise?
On the count of three?
Wow,
Here we go.
Hey, Z?
Can you hear me?
Where are you?
I’m dead, like everyone else,
Everyone but you.
Then how can I hear you?
Og patched all of us into your audio and video feeds,
So we
 can see what you see and hear what you hear.
Oh,
Is that all right with you, Parzival?
If it isn’t, just say
 so.
No, it’s fine with me,
Shoto and
 Art3mis are listening in too?
Yes,
I’m here.
Yeah, we’re here, all right,
And we’re all dead as doornails. The question
 is, why aren’t you dead too, Parzival?
Yeah, Z,
We are a bit curious about that. What happened?
I was awarded
 this quarter on Archaide a few months ago, for playing a perfect game of Pac
Man. It was an artifact, but I never knew its purpose. Not until now. Turns
 out it gave me an extra life.
You lucky
son of a bitch!
The newsfeeds are reporting that every single
 avatar in the sector was just killed. Over half the population of the OASIS.
Was it the Cataclyst?
It had to be,
The Sixers must have bought it when it went
 up for auction a few years ago. And they’ve been sitting on it all this time,
 waiting for the perfect moment to detonate it.
But they just killed off all of their own troops, too,
Why
 would they do that?
I think most of them were already dead,
The Sixers had no choice,
It was the only way they could stop
 us. We’d already opened the Third Gate and were about to step inside when
 they detonated that thing—
How did they
 know we’d opened it? Unless—
They were watching us,
The Sixers probably had remote
 surveillance cameras hidden all around the gate.
So they saw us open it,
Which means they know how to
 open it now too.
Who cares?
Sorrento’s avatar is dead. And so are all
 of the other Sixers.
Wrong,
Check the Scoreboard. There are still twenty
 Sixer avatars listed there, below Parzival. And their scores indicate that every
 single one of them has a copy of the Crystal Key.
Shit!
The Sixers knew they might have to detonate the Cataclyst,
So
 they must have taken the precaution of moving some of their avatars outside
 of Sector Ten. They were probably waiting in a gunship just across the sector
 border, where it was safe.
You’re right,
Which means there are twenty more Sixers
 headed your way right now, Z. So you need to get your ass moving and get
 inside that gate. This is probably going to be your only chance to clear it.
It’s over for us. So we’re all rooting for
 you now, amigo. Good luck.
Thanks, Aech.
Gokouun o inorimasu,
Do your best.
I will,
Good luck, Parzival,
Aech is right, you
 know. You’re never going to get another shot at this. And neither will any
other gunter.
Don’t screw this up.
I won’t,
No pressure, right?
Uh, not to be a backseat driver or anything,
But where the
 hell are you going?
All of my avatar’s items were destroyed by the Cataclyst,
So
 now I have no way to fly up there and reach the gate.
You’ve got to be kidding me!
Man, the hits just keep on
 coming!
It’s the Beta Capsule!
It must have been thrown over
 here by the force of the blast. You can use it to become Ultraman and fly up
 to the gate!
Shit!
It won’t work. It can only be used once a day.
There must be other artifacts
 scattered around here,
Were any of you guys carrying
 artifacts? One that would give me the ability to fly? Or levitate? Or teleport?
No,
I didn’t have any artifacts.
My Sword of the Ba’Heer was an artifact,
But it won’t help
 you reach the gate.
But my Chucks will,
Your ‘Chucks’?
My shoes. Black Chuck Taylor All Stars. They bestow their wearer with
 both speed and flight.
Great! Perfect!
Now I just have to find them.
I’ll get these
 back to you, Arty,
Promise.
You better,
They were my favorites.
What are you waiting for?
The Sixers could show up any
 minute now!
I know,
But there’s something I need to say to all of you before I
 go in.
Well?
Spit it out! The clock is ticking, fool!
OK, OK!
I just wanted to say that I know how the three of you
 must feel right now. It isn’t fair, the way this has played out. We should all be
 entering the gate together. So before I go in, I want you guys to know
 something. If I reach the egg, I’m going to split the prize money equally
 among the four of us.
Hello?
Did you guys hear me?
Are you insane?
Why would you do that, Z?
Because it’s the only honorable thing to do,
Because I never
 would have gotten this far on my own. Because all four of us deserve to see
 what’s inside that gate and find out how the game ends. And because I need
 your help.
Could you repeat that last bit, please?
I need your help,
You guys are right. This is my only shot at
 clearing the Third Gate. There won’t be any second chances, for anyone. The
 Sixers will be here soon, and they’ll enter the gate as soon as they arrive. So I
 have to clear it before they do, on my first attempt. The odds of me pulling
 that off will increase drastically if the three of you are backing me up.
 So … what do you say?
Count me in, Z,
I was planning to coach your dumb ass
 anyway.
Count me in too,
I’ve got nothing left to lose.
Let me get this straight,
We help you clear the gate, and
 in return, you agree to split the prize money with us?
Wrong,
If I win, I’m going to split the prize money with you
 guys, regardless of whether you help me or not. So helping me is probably in
 your best interest.
I don’t suppose we have time to get that in writing?
Greetings,
This is Wade Watts, also
 known as Parzival. I want to let the whole world know that if and when I find
 Halliday’s Easter egg, I hereby vow to split my winnings equally with
 Art3mis, Aech, and Shoto. Cross my heart and hope to die. Gunter’s honor.
 Pinky swear. All of that crap. If I’m lying, I should be forever branded as a
 gutless Sixer-fellating punk.
Dude, are you nuts? I
 was kidding!
Oh,
Right. I knew that.
Beat the high score or be destroyed!
Crap,
This is not
 my best game, gang.
Come on,
You had to know Tempest was
 going to factor into the Third Gate somehow. It was so obvious!
Oh really?
Why?
Because of the quote on the last page of the Almanac,
 ‘I
 must uneasy make, lest too light winning make the prize light.’ 
I know the quote,
It’s from Shakespeare. But I figured
 it was just Halliday’s way of letting us know how difficult he was going to
 make the Hunt.
It was,
But it was also a clue. That quote was taken from
 Shakespeare’s final play, The Tempest.
Shit!
How the hell did I miss that?
I never made that connection either,
Bravo, Art3mis.
The game Tempest also appears briefly in the music video for the song
 ‘Subdivisions’ by Rush,
One of Halliday’s favorites. Pretty hard
 to miss.
Whoa,
She’s good.
OK!
It should have been obvious. No need to rub it in!
I take it you’ve haven’t had much practice at this game, Z?
A little, a long time ago,
But not nearly enough. Look at the high
 score.
Yikes,
Only one credit. Just like Black Tiger.
So much for that idea,
And I don’t see a token machine
 anywhere around here.
Looks like you only get one game,
All or nothing.
Guys, I haven’t played Tempest in years,
I’m screwed. There’s
 no way I’m going to beat Halliday’s high score on my first attempt.
You don’t have to,
Look at the copyright year.
Nineteen eighty?
How does that help him?
Yeah,
How does that help me?
That means this is the very first version of Tempest,
The
 version that shipped with a bug in the game code. When Tempest first hit the
 arcades, kids discovered that if you died with a certain score, the machine
 would give you a bunch of free credits.
Oh,
I didn’t know that.
You would,
if you’d researched the game as much as I
 did.
Damn, girl,
You’ve got some serious knowledge.
Thanks,
It helps to be an obsessive-compulsive geek. With no
 life.
OK, Arty,
What do I need to do to get those free games?
I’m looking it up in my quest journal right now,
You just happen to have a hard copy of your journal with you?
I’ve always kept my journal longhand, in spiral notebooks,
Good thing, too, since my OASIS account and everything in it was just
 erased.
Here it is! First, you need to rack up over
 one hundred eighty thousand points. Once you’ve done that, make sure you
end the game with a score where the last two digits are oh six, eleven, or
 twelve. If you do that, you’ll get forty free credits.
You’re absolutely positive?
Positively absolutely.
OK,
Here goes.
Christ, will you get on with it?
The suspense is killing me
 here!
Quiet!
Give the man some room to breathe, will you?
Here goes
 nothing,
shooter
Art3mis, you’re a genius,
I know.
So, your initials are
 W-O-W? What does the O stand for?
Obtuse,
No, seriously.
Owen.
Owen,
Wade Owen Watts. That’s nice.
Not bad,
Yeah, but not that good, either,
I mean—much better, Parzival. You’re
 doing great.
Thanks for the vote of confidence, Shoto.
Hey, check this out,
The creator
 of Tempest, Dave Theurer, originally got the idea for the game from a
 nightmare he had about monsters crawling up out of a hole in the ground and
 chasing after him.
Isn’t that cool, Z?
That is cool,
Bad news, amigo,
What?
We were right. When the Cataclyst went off, the Sixers had a group of
 avatars in reserve, waiting just outside the sector. Right after the detonation,
 they reentered the sector and headed straight for Chthonia. They …
They what?
They just entered the gate, about five minutes ago,
The gate closed after you went in, but when the Sixers arrived, they used
 three of their own keys to reopen it.
You mean the Sixers are already inside the gate? Right now?
Eighteen of them,
When they stepped through the gate, each
 one entered a stand-alone simulation. A separate instance of the gate. All
 eighteen of them are playing Tempest right now, just like you. Trying to beat
Halliday’s high score. And all of them used the exploit to get forty free
 credits. Most of them aren’t doing that well, but one of them has some
 serious skill. We think Sorrento is probably operating that avatar. He just
 started his second game—
Wait a second!
How can you possibly know all this?
Because we can see them,
Everyone logged into the OASIS
 right now can see them. They can see you, too.
What the hell are you talking about?
The moment someone enters the Third Gate, a live vidfeed of their avatar
 appears at the top of the Scoreboard,
Apparently, Halliday
 wanted clearing the final gate to be a spectator sport.
Wait,
You mean to tell me that the entire world has been
 watching me play Tempest for the past hour?
Correct,
And they’re watching you stand there and jabber
 back at us right now too. So watch what you say.
Why didn’t you guys tell me?
We didn’t want to make you nervous,
Or distract you.
Oh, great! Perfect! Thank you!
Calm down, Parzival,
Get your head back in the game.
 This a race now. There are eighteen Sixer avatars right behind you. So you
 need to make this next game count. Understand?
Yeah,
I understand.
You did it, man!
It’s Python’s Holy Grail!
Duh,
I know that, Shoto.
Smooth move, Ex-lax,
Just let us know if you need any help, Z,
Wave your hands
or something, and we’ll feed you the next line.
gallop
reins
steed
Whoa there!
Who goes there?
It is I, Arthur, son of Uther Pendragon, from the castle of Camelot,
King of the Britons! Defeater of the Saxons! Sovereign of all
 England!
Pull the other one!
I am,
And this is my trusty servant Patsy. We have ridden
 the length and breadth of the land in search of knights who will join me in my
 court at Camelot. I must speak with your lord and master!
What?
Ridden on a horse?
Yes!
You’re using coconuts!
What?
You’ve got two empty halves of coconut and you’re bangin’ ’em
 together!
So? We have ridden since the snows of winter covered this land, through
 the kingdom of Mercia, through—
Where’d you get the coconuts?
Fifteen of them are still playing Tempest,
But three
 of them beat Halliday’s score and are now inside the Grail simulation.
And the leader—Sorrento, we think—is running just nine
 minutes behind you.
And so far, he hasn’t missed a single line of dialogue,
Exactly,
The Tale
 of Sir Launcelot
Do you guys see this?
Hello? Aech? Art3mis? Shoto? Are you guys still there?
Joshua.
You win,
Congratulations,
The game is over,
It’s time for
 you to receive your prize.
I’m entrusting the care of the OASIS to you now, Parzival,
Your avatar is immortal and all-powerful. Whatever you want, all you
 have to do is wish for it. Pretty sweet, eh?
Do me a favor. Try and use your powers only for good. OK?
OK,
This is your castle now. I’ve
 coded this room so that only your avatar can enter it. I did this to ensure that
 you alone have access to this.
I call this the Big Red Button,
If you press it, it will shut
 off the entire OASIS and launch a worm that will delete everything stored on
the GSS servers, including all of the OASIS source code. It will shut down
 the OASIS forever.
So don’t press it unless you’re absolutely
 positive it’s the right thing to do, OK?
I trust
 your judgment.
Listen,
I need to tell you one last thing before
 I go. Something I didn’t figure out for myself until it was already too late.
I created the OASIS because I never felt at home in the real
 world. I didn’t know how to connect with the people there. I was afraid, for
 all of my life. Right up until I knew it was ending. That was when I realized,
 as terrifying and painful as reality can be, it’s also the only place where you
 can find true happiness. Because reality is real. Do you understand?
Yes,
I think I do.
Good,
Don’t make the same mistake I did.
 Don’t hide in here forever.
All right. I think that
 covers everything. It’s time for me to blow this pop stand.
Good luck, Parzival,
And thanks. Thanks for playing my
 game.
Are you guys there?
Yes!
Can you hear us?
Yeah. I can now. What happened?
The system cut off our voice links to you as soon as you entered
 Halliday’s office, so we couldn’t talk to you.
Luckily, you didn’t need our help anyway,
Good job, man.
Congratulations, Wade,
Thanks,
But I couldn’t have done it without you guys.
You’re right,
Remember to mention that when you talk to
 the media. Og says there are a few hundred reporters on their way here right
now.
Did you guys see everything Halliday said to me before he vanished?
No,
We saw everything up until he told you to ‘try and
 use your powers only for good.’ Then your vidfeed cut out. What happened
 after that?
Nothing much,
I’ll tell you about it later.
Dude,
You’ve got to check the Scoreboard.
What happened to the Sixers?
The ones who were still inside
 the gate?
We’re not sure,
Their vidfeeds vanished when the
 Scoreboard changed.
Maybe their avatars were killed,
Or maybe …
Maybe they were just ejected from the gate,
Holy shit!
How did you do that?
You heard Halliday,
His avatar is immortal and all
powerful.
Yeah,
He wasn’t kidding, either.
Halliday also said you could wish for whatever you wanted,
What are you gonna wish for first?
I wish for Aech,
 Art3mis, and Shoto to be resurrected.
Guys?
You might want to try logging back into your accounts
 now.
We’re already on our way!
Arigato, Parzival-san,
Welcome back,
Good as new,
Thanks, Z.
De nada.
Where’s
 Art3mis? She should have reappeared right next to you—
She didn’t log back in,
She said she wanted to go outside
 and get some fresh air.
You saw her? What—?
How did she
 look?
She
 said she’d be outside waiting for you. Whenever you’re ready to meet her.
Wait a second! Before you log out, you’ve got to see something,
This is airing on all of the
 newsfeeds right now. The feds just took Sorrento in for questioning. They
 stormed into IOI headquarters and yanked him right out of his haptic chair!
The newsfeeds have been playing clips from the simcap of your chatlink
 session with Sorrento all day,
Especially the
 part where he threatens to kill you and then blows up your aunt’s trailer.
Did you give the order to kill Wade Watts personally?
How does it feel to know you just lost the contest?
The charges leveled against my client
 are preposterous,
The simcap being circulated is clearly a doctored
 fake. We have no other comment at this time.
The bastard will probably get off scot-free,
IOI can afford to hire
 the best lawyers in the world.
Yes, they can,
But now
 so can we.
Well done, Wade!
Well done!
Thanks, Og.
Several chief executives from GSS arrived while you were logged in,
Along with all of Jim’s lawyers. They’re all waiting upstairs. As you
 can imagine, they’re anxious to speak with you.
Do I have to talk to them right now?
No, of course not!
They all work for you now, remember?
 Make the bastards wait as long as you like!
My lawyer
 is up there too. He’s a good guy. A real pit bull. He’ll make sure that no one
 messes with you, OK?
Thanks, Og,
I really owe you.
Nonsense!
I should be thanking you. I haven’t had this much
 fun in decades! You did good, kid.
Do you know which way Art3mis went?
Up those stairs and out the first door you
 see,
She said she’d wait for you at the center of my hedge maze.
It’s an easy maze. It shouldn’t take you very long to find her.
Hello,
Hello,
You look just like I always pictured you,
Beautiful.
Really?
Well, what do you know? You look just like I always thought
 you would too,
Butt ugly.
We haven’t been formally introduced,
I’m Samantha.
Hello, Samantha. I’m Wade.
It’s nice to finally meet you in person, Wade.
So what happens now?
We’re going to use all of the moolah we just won to feed
 everyone on the planet. We’re going to make the world a better place, right?
Don’t you want to build a huge interstellar spaceship, load it
 full of videogames, junk food, and comfy couches, and then get the hell out
 of here?
I’m up for that, too,
If it means I get to spend the rest of my life
 with you.
We’ll have to see,
We just met, you
 know.
I’m in love with you.
You’re sure about that?
Yes. I am. Because it’s true.
I’m sorry for
 breaking things off with you,
For disappearing from your life. I
 just—
It’s OK,
I understand why you did it now.
You do?
You did the right thing.
You think so?
We won, didn’t we?
Listen,
We can take things as slow as you like. I’m really a nice
 guy, once you get to know me. I swear.
Did I mention that I’m also extremely rich?
Of course, so are
 you, so I don’t suppose that’s a big selling point.
You don’t need to sell me on anything, Wade,
You’re my best
 friend. My favorite person.
I’ve really missed you, you know that?
