s a guy like me in every state and federal prison in America, I guess-I
re partial to that, a 
bottle of brandy to celebrate your son or daughter
t always that way. I came to Shawshank 
when I was just twenty, and I am one of the few people in our happy little family who is 
willing to own up to what he did. I committed murder. I put a large insurance policy on 
my wife, who was three years older than I was, and then I fixed the brakes of the 
Chevrolet coupe her father had given us as a wedding present. It worked out exactly as I 
had planned, except I hadn
s infant son on the way down Castle Hill and into town. The brakes 
let go and the car crashed through the bushes at the edge of the town common, gathering 
speed. Bystanders said it must have been doing fifty or better when it hit the base of the 
Civil War statue and burst into flames. I also hadn
s pass into this place. Maine has no death penalty, but the district 
attorney saw to it that I was tried for all three deaths and given three life sentences, to run 
one after the other. That fixed up any chance of parole I might have, for a long, long time. 
The judge called what I had done "a hideous, heinous crime", and it was, but it is also in 
the past now. You can look it up in the yellowing files of the Castle Rock Call, where the 
big headlines announcing my conviction look sort of funny and antique next to the news 
of Hitler and Mussolini and FDR
t know what that word means, at least as 
far as prisons and corrections go. I think it
s word. It may have some other 
meaning, and it may be that I will have a chance to find out, but that is the future... 
something cons teach themselves not to think about. I was young, good-looking, and 
from the poor side of town. I knocked up a pretty, sulky, headstrong girl who lived in one 
of the fine old houses on Carbine Street. Her father was agreeable to the marriage if I 
would take a job in the optical company he owned and “work my way up". I found out 
that what he really had in mind was keeping me in his house and under his thumb, like a 
disagreeable pet that has not quite been housebroken and which may bite. Enough hate 
eventually piled up to cause me to do what I did. Given a second chance I would not do it 
again, but I
s not me I want to tell you about; I want to tell you about a guy named 
Andy Dufresne. But before I can tell you about Andy, I have to explain a few other things 
about myself. It won
ve been the guy who can get it for you here at Shawshank for damn near 
forty years. And that doesn
ve gotten thousands of other items for men 
doing time here, some of them perfectly legal yet hard to come by in a place where 
you
s a name you may remember if you grew up north of Massachusetts-Robert Alan 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
3 
Cote. In 1951 he tried to rob the First Mercantile Bank of Mechanic Falls, and the hold
up turned into a bloodbath-six dead in the end, two of them members of the gang, three of 
them hostages, one of them a young state cop 
who put his head up at the wrong time and got a bullet in the eye. Cote had a penny 
collection. Naturally they weren
ll be safe enough. Don
ve gotten men chocolates on Valentine
s around St Paddy
Malley; I 
even arranged for a midnight showing of Deep Throat and The Devil in Miss Jones for a 
party of twenty men who had pooled their resources to rent the films... although I ended 
up doing a week in solitary for that little escapade. It
re the 
guy who can get it. 
I
ve seen that a long-timer has gotten a 
pair of panties from his wife or his girlfriend... and I guess you
t get all 
those things gratis, and for some items the price comes high. But I don
m never going to own a Cadillac car or fly off to 
Jamaica for two weeks in February. I do it for the same reason that a good butcher will 
only sell you fresh meat: I got a reputation and I want to keep it. The only two things I 
refuse to handle are guns and heavy drugs. I won
m a regular Neiman-Marcus. And so when Andy Dufresne came to me in 
1949 and asked if I could smuggle Rita Hayworth into the prison for him, I said it would 
be no problem at all. And it wasn
s a funny thing to 
remember about a man, I suppose, but it seems to sum Andy up for me. He always looked 
as if he should have been wearing a tie. On the outside he had been a vice-president in the 
trust department of a large Portland bank. Good work for a man as young as he was, 
especially when you consider how conservative most banks are... and you have to 
multiply that conservatism by ten when you get up into New England, where folks don
s bald, limping, and constantly plucking at 
his pants to get his truss around straight Andy was in for murdering his wife and her 
lover. 
4 
Stephen King 
As I believe I have said, everyone in prison is an innocent man. Oh, they read that 
scripture the way those holy rollers on TV read the Book of Revelations. They were the 
victims of judges with hearts of stone and balls to match, or incompetent lawyers, or 
police frame-ups, or bad luck. They read the scripture, but you can see a different 
scripture in their faces. Most cons are a low sort, no good to themselves or anyone else, 
and their worst luck was that their mothers carried them to term. In all my years at 
Shawshank, there have been less than ten men whom I believed when they told me they 
were innocent Andy Dufresne was one of them, although I only became convinced of his 
innocence over a period of years. If I had been on the jury that heard his case in Portland 
Superior Court over six stormy weeks in 1947-48, I would have voted to convict, too. 
It was one hell of a case, all right; one of those juicy ones with all the right elements. 
There was a beautiful girl with society connections (dead), a local sports figure (also 
dead), and a prominent young businessman in the dock. There was this, plus all the 
scandal the newspapers could hint at. The prosecution had an open-and-shut case. The 
trial only lasted as long as it did because the DA was planning to run for the US House of 
Representatives and he wanted John Q Public to get a good long look at his phiz. It was a 
crackerjack legal circus, with spectators getting in line at four in the morning, despite the 
subzero temperatures, to assure themselves of a seat. 
The facts of the prosecution
s rented bungalow not far from the golf course. The next 
morning his cleaning woman found both of them dead in bed. Each had been shot four 
times. 
It was that last fact that mitigated more against Andy than any of the others. The DA 
with the political aspirations made a great deal of it in his opening statement and his 
closing summation. Andrew Dufresne, he said, was not a wronged husband seeking a hot
blooded revenge against his cheating wife; that, the DA said, could be understood, if not 
condoned. But this revenge had been of a much colder type. Consider! the DA thundered 
at the jury. Four and four! Not six shots, but eight! He had fired the gun empty... and then 
stopped to reload so he could shoot each of them again! FOUR FOR HIM AND FOUR 
FOR HER, the Portland Sun blared. The Boston Register dubbed him The Even-Steven 
Killer. 
A clerk from the Wise Pawnshop in Lewiston testified that he had sold a six-shot.38 
Police Special to Andrew Dufresne just two days before the double murder. A bartender 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
5 
from the country club bar testified that Andy had come in around seven o
s house and he, the bartender, could 
. Another clerk, this one from the Handy-Pik store a mile or so from Quentin's 
house, told the court that Dufresne had come in around quarter to nine on the same night. 
He purchased cigarettes, three quarts of beer, and some dish-towels. The county medical 
examiner testified that Quentin and the Dufresne woman had been killed between eleven 
p. m. and two a. m. on the night of 10-11 September. The detective from the Attorney 
General's office who had been in charge of the case testified that there was a turnout less 
than seventy yards from the bungalow, and that on the afternoon of 11 September, three 
pieces of evidence had been removed from that turnout: first item, two empty quart 
bottles of Narragansett Beer (with the defendant's fingerprints on them); the second item, 
twelve cigarette ends (all Kools, the defendant's brand); third item, a plaster moulage of a 
set of tire tracks (exactly matching the tread-and-wear pattern of the tires on the 
defendant's1947 Plymouth). 
In the living room of Quentin's bungalow, four dishtowels had been found lying on 
the sofa. There were bullet-holes through them and powder-burns on them. 
The detective theorized (over the agonized objections of Andy's lawyer) that the 
murderer had wrapped the towels around the muzzle of the murder-weapon to muffle the 
sound of the gunshots. Andy Dufresne took the stand in his own defense and told his 
story calmly, coolly, and dispassionately. He said he had begun to hear distressing rumors 
about his wife and Glenn Quentin as early as the last week in July. In August he had 
become distressed enough to investigate a bit. On an evening when Linda was supposed 
to have gone shopping in Portland after her tennis lesson, Andy had followed her and 
Quentin to Quentin's one-story rented house (inevitably dubbed 'the love-nest
Do you mean to tell this court that your wife did not recognize your brand-new 
Plymouth sedan behind Quentin's car?
I 
swapped cars for the evening with a friend,
s car and picking up his own, he had gone home. Linda had 
been in bed, reading a book. He asked her how her trip to Portland had been. She replied 
that it had been fun, but she hadn
s 
when I knew for sure," Andy told the breathless spectators. He spoke in the same calm, 
remote voice in which he delivered almost all of his testimony. "What was your frame of 
mind in the seventeen days between then and the night your wife was murdered?" Andy
I was in great distress,
ve ever known. What was right with him he
t believe he would have gotten the life sentence he wound up 
with. Even if he had
d been more or less drunk since 24 August, 
and that he was a man who didn
t see this coldly self
possessed young man in the neat double-breasted three-piece woollen suit ever getting 
falling-down drunk over his wife
t have. Andy Dufresne took just four drinks a year all the time I knew him. He 
would meet me in the exercise yard every year about a week before his birthday and then 
again about two weeks before Christmas. On each occasion he would arrange for a bottle 
of Jack Daniels. He bought it the way most cons arrange to buy their stuff-the slave
65 they raised it all the way up to a quarter. My commission on 
liquor was and is ten per cent, and when you add on that surcharge to the price of a fine 
sippin’ whiskey like the Black Jack, you get an idea of how many hours of Andy 
Dufresne's sweat in the prison laundry was going to buy his four drinks a year. 
On the morning of his birthday, 20 September, he would have himself a big knock, 
and then he'd have another that night after lights out. The following day he'd give the rest 
of the bottle back to me, and I would share it around. As for the other bottle, he dealt 
himself one drink Christmas night and another on New Year's Eve. Then that one would 
also come to me with instructions to pass it on. Four drinks a year -and that is the 
behavior of a man who has been bitten hard by the bottle. Hard enough to draw blood. He 
told the jury that on the night of the 10th he had been so drunk he could only remember 
what had happened in little isolated snatches. He had gotten drunk that afternoon-
s bungalow, he swung into the country club for a couple of quick ones. He 
could not, he said, remember telling the bartender he could 
, or saying anything to him at all. He remembered buying beer in the Handy-Pik, 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
7 
but not the dishtowels. 
 he asked, and one of the papers 
reported that three of the lady jurors shuddered. 
Later, much later, he speculated to me about the clerk who had testified on the subject 
of those dishtowels, and I think it's worth jotting down what he said. 
 Andy said one day in the yard, 'they stumble on this 
fellow who sold me the beer that night. By then three days have gone by. The facts of the 
case have been broadsided in all the papers. Maybe they ganged up on the guy, five or six 
cops, plus the dick from the attorney general's office, plus the DA's assistant. Memory is 
a pretty subjective thing, Red. They could have started out with. 
t it possible that he 
purchased four or five dishtowels?" and worked their way up from there. If enough 
people want you to remember something, that can be a pretty powerful persuader. "I 
agreed that it could. 
"But there
 Andy went on in that musing way of his. 
s at least possible that he convinced himself. It was the limelight. Reporters 
asking him questions, his picture in the papers... all topped, of course, by his star turn in 
court. I
s possible that lie could have passed a lie detector test with flying colors, or sworn on 
his mother
I know this much: even though my own lawyer thought I had to be lying about half 
my story, he never bought that business about the dishtowels. It's crazy on the face of it. I 
was pig-drunk, too drunk to have been thinking about muffling the gunshots. If I'd done 
it, I just would have let them rip.
s place go out. He watched a single light go on 
upstairs... and fifteen minutes later he watched that one go out. He said he could guess the 
rest. 
"Mr. Dufresne, did you then go up to Glenn Quentin
 his lawyer thundered. 

 Andy answered. By midnight, he said, he was sobering up. He was 
also feeling the first signs of a bad hangover. He decided to go home and sleep it off and 
think about the whole thing in a more adult fashion the next day. 
 

 
The DA popped up. 

t you? You divorced 
her with a .38 revolver wrapped in dishtowels, didn
 
8 
Stephen King 

 Andy said calmly. 

 

 

 

t shoot either one of them. I drank two quarts of beer and smoked 
however many cigarettes that the police found at the turnout. Then I drove home and 
went to bed." 
"You told the jury that between 24 August and 10 September, you were feeling 
suicidal." 
"Yes, sir." 
"Suicidal enough to buy a revolver." 
"Yes." 
"Would it bother you overmuch, Mr. Dufresne, if I told you that you do not seem to 
me to be the suicidal type?" 
"No," Andy said, "but you don
 
There was a slight tense titter in the courtroom at this, but it won him no points with 
the jury. 

 

ve already testified -" 
"Oh, yes!" The DA smiled sarcastically. "You threw it into the river, didn
 

 

 

 

s convenient, isn
 

s neither convenient nor inconvenient. Only the truth." 
"I believe you heard Lieutenant Mincher
 Mincher had been in charge of 
the party which had dragged the stretch of the Royal near Pond Bridge, from which Andy 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
9 
had testified he had thrown the gun. The police had not found it 
 
Then you heard him testify that they found no gun, although they dragged for three 
days. 
That was rather convenient, too, wasn't it?
Convenience aside, it's a fact that they didn't find the gun,
But I should like to point out to both you and the jury that the Pond Road Bridge is very 
close to where the Royal River empties into the Bay of Yarmouth. The current is strong. 
The gun may have been carried out into the bay itself.
And so no comparison can be made between the riflings on the bullets taken from 
the bloodstained corpses of your wife and Mr. Glenn Quentin and the riflings on the 
barrel of your gun. That's correct, isn't it, Mr. Dufresne?
Yes.
s also rather convenient, isn
 
At that, according to the papers, Andy displayed one of the few slight emotional 
reactions he allowed himself during the entire six-week period of the trial. A slight, bitter 
smile crossed his face. 

 
The DA hammered at him for two days. He re-read the Handy-Pik clerk's testimony 
about the dishtowels to Andy. Andy repeated that he could not recall buying them, but 
admitted that he also couldn't remember not buying them. 
Was it true that Andy and Linda Dufresne had taken out a joint insurance policy in 
early 1947? Yes, that was true. And if acquitted, wasn't it true that Andy stood to gain 
$50,000 in benefits? True. And wasn't it true that he had gone up to Glenn Quentin's 
house with murder in his heart, and wasn't it also true that he had indeed committed 
murder twice over? No, it was not true. Then what did he think had happened, since there 
had been no signs of robbery? 

 Andy said quietly. 
The case went to the jury at one p. m. on a snowy Wednesday afternoon. The twelve 
jurymen and women came back at three-thirty. The bailiff said they would have been 
back earlier, but they had held off in order to enjoy a nice chicken dinner from Bentley's 
Restaurant at the county's expense. They found him guilty, and brother, if Maine had the 
death penalty, he would have done the air dance before that spring's crocuses poked their 
heads out of the dirt. 
10 
Stephen King 
The DA had asked him what he thought had happened, and Andy slipped the question -but he did have an idea, and I got it out of him late one evening in 1955. It had taken 
those seven years for us to progress from nodding acquaintances to fairly close friends 
but I never felt really close to Andy until 1960 or so, and I believe I was the only one 
who ever did get really close to him. Both being long-timers, we were in the same 
cellblock from beginning to end, although I was halfway down the corridor from him. 

 He laughed-but there was no humor in the sound. 
s all. And I
 
As simple as that. And he was condemned to spend the rest of his life in Shawshank
or the part of it that mattered. Five years later he began to have parole hearings, and he 
was turned down just as regular as clockwork in spite of being a model prisoner. Getting 
a pass out of Shawshank when you've got murder stamped on your admittance-slip is 
slow work, as slow as a river eroding a rock. Seven men sit on the board, two more than 
at most state prisons, and every one of those seven has an ass as hard as the water drawn 
up from a mineral-spring well You can't buy those guys, you can't no, you can't cry for 
them. As far as the board concerned, money don't talk, and nobody walks. For other 
reasons in Andy's case as well... but that belongs a little further along in my story. There 
was a trustee, name of Kendricks, who was into me for some pretty heavy money back in 
the fifties, and it was four years before he got it all paid off. Most of the interest he paid 
me was information-in my line of work, you're dead if you can't find ways of keeping 
your ear to the ground. This Kendricks, for instance, had access to records I was never 
going to see running a stamper down in the goddam plate-shop. Kendricks told me that 
the parole board vote was 7-0 against Andy Dufresne through 1957, 6-1 in
59, and 5-2 in
t know, but I do know that sixteen years later he 
was still in Cell 14 of Cellblock 5. By then, 1976, he was fifty-eight. They probably 
would have gotten big-hearted and let him out around 1983. They give you fife, and that
t any 
Birdman of Alcatraz; he just had this pigeon. Jake, he called him. He set Jake free a day 
before he, Sherwood, that is, was to walk, and Jake flew away just as pretty as you could 
want. But about a week after Sherwood Bolton left our happy little family, a friend of 
mine called me over to the west corner of the exercise yard, where Sherwood used to 
hang out, and my friend said: “Isn’t that Jake, Red?" It was. That pigeon was just as dead 
as a turd. 
I remember the first time Andy Dufresne got in touch with me for something; I 
remember like it was yesterday. That wasn
s where this one went down. Our 
yard is big, much bigger than most. It
s also a big automotive garage where mechanic 
inmates fix prison, state, and municipal vehicles-not to mention the private cars of the 
screws, the administration officers... and, on more than one occasion, those of the parole 
board. 
The east side is a thick stone wall full of tiny slit windows. Cellblock 5 is on the other 
side of that wail. The west side is Administration and the infirmary. Shawshank has never 
been as overcrowded as most prisons, and back in"48 it was only filled to something like 
two-thirds capacity, but at any given time there might be eighty to a hundred and twenty 
cons on the yard-playing toss with a football or a baseball, shooting craps, jawing at each 
other, making deals. On Sunday the place was even more crowded; on Sunday the place 
would have looked like a country holiday... if there had been any women. 
It was on a Sunday that Andy first came to me. I had just finished talking to Elmore 
Armitage, a fellow who often came in handy to me, about a radio when Andy walked up. 
I knew who he was, of course; he had a reputation for being a snob and a cold fish. 
People were saying he was marked for trouble already. One of the people saying so 
was Bogs Dismond, a bad man to have on your case. Andy had no cellmate, and I
t have to listen to rumors about a man when I can 
judge him for myself. 
"Hello," he said. "I
He offered his hand and I shook it. He wasn't 
a man to waste time being social; he got right to the point. 
re a man 
who knows how to get things." 
I agreed that I was able to locate certain items from time to time, "How do you do 
that?" Andy asked. 
"Sometimes," I said, 
t explain it. Unless 
it
m Irish." 
He smiled a little at that. "I wonder if you could get me a rock hammer." 
"What would that be, and why would you want it?" 
Andy looked surprised. "Do you make motivations a part of your business?" With 
words like those I could understand how he had gotten a reputation for being the snobby 
sort, the kind of guy who likes to put on airs-but I sensed a tiny thread of humor in his 
question. 
I
 I said. 
t ask questions. I
 
12 
Stephen King 

 

 
An old friction-taped baseball flew towards us and he turned, cat-quick, and picked it 
out of the air. It was a move Frank Malzone would have been proud of. Andy flicked the 
bail back to where it had come from -just a quick and easy-looking flick of the wrist, but 
that throw had some mustard on it, just the same. I could see a lot of people were 
watching us with one eye as they went about their business. Probably the guards in tile 
tower were watching, too. I won't gild the lily; there are cons that swing weight in any 
prison, maybe four or five in a small one, maybe two or three dozen in a big one. At 
Shawshank I was one of those with some weight, and what I thought of Andy Dufresne 
would have a lot to do with how his time went. He probably knew it too, but he wasn't 
kowtowing or sucking up to me, and I respected him for that. 

He held his hands about a foot apart, and that was 
when I first noticed how neatly kept his nails were. 
s got a small sharp pick on one end 
and a fiat, blunt hammerhead on the other. I want it because I like rocks." 
"Rocks," I said. 
"Squat down here a minute," he said. 
I humored him. We hunkered down on our haunches like Indians. Andy took a 
handful of exercise yard dirt and began to sift it between his neat hands, so it emerged in 
a fine cloud. Small pebbles were left over, one or two sparkly, the rest dull and plain. One 
of the dull ones was quartz, but it was only dull until you
Quartz, sure,
And look. Mica. Shale, silted granite. Here's a piece of 
graded limestone, from when they cut this place out of the side of the hill. 
I'm a rock hound. At least... I was a rock hound. In my 
old life. I'd like to be one again, on a limited scale.
Sunday expeditions in the exercise yard?
t know 
exactly why; just an association with the outside world, I suppose. You didn
Better to have Sunday expeditions here than no Sunday expeditions at all,
You could plant an item like that rock-hammer in somebody's skull,
I 
have no enemies here,
No?
Wait awhile.
If there's trouble, I can handle it without using a rock-hammer.
Maybe you want to try an escape? Going under the wall? Because if you do -
You know,
if anyone sees you with it, they'll take it away. If they saw you with 
a spoon, they'd take it away. What you going to do, just sit down here in the yard and tap 
away?
Oh, I believe I can do a lot better than that.
t my business, anyway. A man engages my 
services to get him something. Whether he can keep it or not after I get it is his business. 
"How much would an item like that go for?" I asked. I was beginning to enjoy his quiet, 
low-key style. When you
Eight dollars in any rock-and-gem shop,
but I realize that in a business 
like yours you work on a cost-plus basis-
Cost plus ten per cent is my going rate, but I have to go up some on a dangerous 
item. For something like the gadget you're talking about, it takes a little more goose
grease to get the wheels turning. Let's say ten dollars.
Ten it is
Have you got ten dollars?
I do,
That's fine,
You ought to know what I expect if you get caught with what I 
get you.
I suppose I should,
If you get caught, you'll say you found it. That's about the long and short of it. 
They'll put you in solitary for three or four weeks... plus, of course, you'll lose your toy 
and you'll get a black mark on your record. If you give them my name, you and I will 
never do business again. Not for so much as a pair of shoelaces or a bag of Bugler. And 
I'll send some fellows around to lump you up. I don't like violence, but you'll understand 
14 
Stephen King 
my position. I can't allow it to get around that I can't handle myself. That would surely 
finish me.
Yes. I suppose it would, I understand, and you don't need to worry.
I never worry,
In a place like this there's no percentage in it.
s morning break. He didn
s head, he would surely never listen to Fibber McGee and Molly on the 
radio again. And Andy had already begun having trouble with the sisters. I hoped it 
wasn
t see the rock-hammer again for seven years. 
The following Sunday Andy walked over to me in the exercise yard again. He was 
nothing to look at that day, I can tell you. His lower lip was swelled up so big it looked 
like a summer sausage, his right eye was swollen half-shut, and there was an ugly 
washboard scrape across one cheek. He was having his troubles with the sisters, all right, 
but he never mentioned them. "Thanks for the tool," he said, and walked away. 
I watched him curiously. He walked a few steps, saw in the dirt, bent over, and picked 
it up. It was a small rock. Prison fatigues, except for those worn by mechanics when 
they
s sleeve and didn
t or won
t, and plenty of them aren
t see much of him over the next six months; Andy spent a lot of that time in 
solitary. 
A few words about the sisters. 
In a lot of pens they are known as bull queers or jailhouse susies-just lately the term 
in fashion is "killer queens". But in Shawshank they were always the sisters. I don
s a lot of buggery going on inside 
the walls-except to some of the new fish, maybe, who have the misfortune to be young, 
slim, good-looking, and unwary-but homosexuality, like straight sex, comes in a hundred 
different shapes and forms. There are men who can
Heterosexual men, although I've sometimes 
wondered if they are quite as heterosexual as they thought they were going to be when 
they get back to their wives or their girlfriends. 
There are also men who get 'turned
go gay
come out of the closet
re 
usually long-timers, doing hard bullets for brutal crimes. Their prey is the young, the 
weak, and the inexperienced... or, as in the case of Andy Dufresne, the weak-looking. 
Their hunting grounds are the showers, the cramped, tunnel-like area way behind the 
industrial washers in the laundry, sometimes the infirmary. On more than one occasion 
rape has occurred in the closet-sized projection booth behind the auditorium. Most often 
what the sisters take by force they could have had for free, if they wanted it; those who 
have been turned always seem to have "crushes" on one sister or another, like teenage 
girls with their Sinatras, Presleys, or Redfords. But for the sisters, the joy has always 
been in taking it by force... and I guess it always will be. 
Because of his small size and fair good looks (and maybe also because of that very 
quality of self-possession I had admired), the sisters were after Andy from the day he 
walked in. If this was some kind of fairy story, I
t. Prison is no fairy-tale 
world. 
The first time for him was in the shower less than three days after he joined our happy 
Shawshank family. Just a lot of slap and tickle that time, I understand. They like to size 
you up before they make their real move, like jackals finding out if the prey is as weak 
and hamstrung as it looks. 
Andy punched back and bloodied the lip of a big, hulking sister named Bogs 
Diamond-gone these many years since to who knows where. A guard broke it up before it 
could go any further, but Bogs promised to get him-and Bogs did. 
The second time was behind the washers in the laundry. A lot has gone on in that 
long, dusty, and narrow space over the years; the guards know about it and just let it be. 
It
re 
wet. The guards don
s no room to maneuver, and one of the 
16 
Stephen King 
first things they teach them when they come to work in a place like this is to never let the 
cons get you in a place where you can
t there that day, but Henry Backus, who had been washroom foreman 
down there since 1922, told me that four of his friends were. Andy held them at bay for a 
while with a scoop of Hexlite, threatening to throw it in their eyes if they came any 
closer, but he tripped trying to back around one of the big Washex four-pockets. That was 
all it took. 
They were on him. 
I guess the phrase gang-rape is one that doesn
s what they did to him, those four sisters. They bent him over a gearbox 
and one of them held a Phillips screwdriver to his temple while they gave him the 
business. It rips you up some, but not bad-am I speaking from personal experience, you 
ask?-I only wish I weren
t want some clown asking 
you if you just started your period, you wad up a bunch of toilet paper and keep it down 
the back of your underwear until it stops. The bleeding really is like a menstrual flow; it 
keeps up for two, maybe three days, a slow trickle. Then it stops. No harm done, unless 
they
I heard ya got broke in,
m happy to add. 
They took him, all three of them. When it was done, Rooster and the other egg-it 
might have been Pete Verness, but I
m gonna open my fly now, mister man, and you
re gonna swallow Rooster
 
Andy said, 
re going to lose it." 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
17 
Bogs looked at Andy like he was crazy, Ernie said. 
"No," he told Andy, talking to him slowly, like Andy was a stupid kid. "You didn
ll put all eight inches of this steel 
into your ear. Get it?" 
"I understand what you said. I don
m going to bite 
whatever you stick into my mouth. You can put that razor in my brain, I guess, but you 
should know that a sudden serious brain injury causes the victim to simultaneously 
urinate, defecate... and bite down." 
He looked up at Bogs, smiling that little smile of his, old Ernie said, as if the three of 
them had been discussing stocks and bonds with him instead of throwing it to him just as 
hard as they could. Just as if he was wearing one of his three-piece bankers" suits instead 
of kneeling on a dirty broom-closet floor with his pants around his ankles and blood 
trickling down the insides of his thighs. 
"In fact," he went on, "I understand that the bite-reflex is sometimes so strong that the 
victim
 
Bogs didn't put anything in Andy's mouth that night in late February of 1948, and 
neither did Rooster MacBride, and so far as I know, no one else ever did, either. What the 
three of them did was to beat Andy within an inch of his life, and all four of them ended 
up doing a jolt in solitary. Andy and Rooster MacBride went by way of the infirmary. 
How many times did that particular crew have at him? I don't know. I think Rooster 
lost his taste fairly early on -being in nose-splints for a month can do that to a fellow -and 
Bogs Diamond left off that summer, all at once. 
That was a strange thing. Bogs was found in his cell, badly beaten, one morning in 
early June, when he didn't show up in the breakfast nose-count He wouldn't say who had 
done it, or how they had gotten to him, but being in my business, I know that a screw can 
be bribed to do almost anything except get a gun for an inmate. They didn't make big 
salaries then, and they don't now. And in those days there was no electronic locking 
system, no closed-circuit TV, no master-switches which controlled whole areas of the 
prison. Back in 1948, each cellblock had its own turnkey. A guard could have been 
bribed real easy to let someone-maybe two or three someones-into the block, and, yes, 
even into Diamond's cell. 
Of course a job like that would have cost a lot of money. Not by outside standards, 
no. 
Prison economics are on a smaller scale. When you've been in here a while, a dollar 
bill in your hand looks like a twenty did outside. My guess is, that if Bogs was done, it 
cost someone a serious piece of change-fifteen bucks, well say, for the turnkey, and two 
or store apiece for each of the lump-up guys. 
18 
Stephen King 
I'm not saying it was Andy Dufresne, but I do know that he brought in five hundred 
dollars when he came, and he was a banker in the straight world- a man who understands 
better than the rest of us the ways in which money can become power. 
And I know this: After the beating-the three broken ribs, the hemorrhaged eye, the 
sprained back and the dislocated hip-Bogs Diamond left Andy alone. In fact, after that he 
left everyone pretty much alone. He got to be like a high wind in the summertime, all 
bluster and no bite. You could say, in fact, that he turned into a 
. 
That was the end of Bogs Diamond, a man who might eventually have killed Andy if 
Andy hadn't taken steps to prevent it (if it was him who took the steps). But it wasn't the 
end of Andy's trouble with the sisters. There was a little hiatus, and then it began again, 
although not so hard nor so often. Jackals like easy prey, and there were easier pickings 
around than Andy Dufresne. 
He always fought them, that's what I remember. He knew, I guess, that if you let them 
have at you even once, without fighting it, it got that much easier to let them have their 
way without fighting next time. So Andy would turn up with bruises on his face every 
once in a while, and there was the matter of the two broken fingers six or eight months 
after Diamond's beating. Oh yes-and sometime in late 1949, the man landed in the 
infirmary with a broken cheekbone that was probably the result of someone swinging a 
nice chunk of pipe with the business-end wrapped in flannel. He always fought back, and 
as a result, he did his time in solitary. But don't think solitary was the hardship for Andy 
that it was for some men. He got along with himself. 
The sisters was something he adjusted himself to-and then, in 1950, it stopped almost 
completely. That is a part of my story that I'll get to in due time. 
In the fall of 1948, Andy met me one morning in the exercise yard and asked me if I 
could get him half a dozen rock-blankets. 

 I asked. 
He told me that was just what rock hounds called them; they were polishing cloths 
about the size of dishtowels. They were heavily padded, with a smooth side and a rough 
side-the smooth side like fine-grained sandpaper, the rough side almost as abrasive as 
industrial steel wool (Andy also kept a box of that in his cell, although he didn't get it 
from me-I imagine he kited it from the prison laundry). 
I told him I thought we could do business on those, and I ended up getting them from 
the very same rock-and-gem shop where I'd arranged to get the rock-hammer. This time I 
charged Andy my usual ten per cent and not a penny more. I didn't see anything lethal or 
even dangerous in a dozen 7
 squares of padded cloth. Rock-blankets, indeed. 
It was about five months later that Andy asked if I could get him Rita Hayworth. That 
conversation took place in the auditorium, during a movie-show. Nowadays we get the 
movie-shows once or twice a week, but back then the shows were a monthly event. 
Usually the movies we got had a morally uplifting message to them, and this one, The 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
19 
Lost Weekend, was no different. The moral was that it's dangerous to drink. It was a 
moral we could take some comfort in. 
Andy maneuvered to get next to me, and about halfway through the show he leaned a 
little closer and asked if I could get him Rita Hayworth. I'll tell you the truth, it kind of 
tickled me. He was usually cool, calm, and collected, but that night he was jumpy as hell, 
almost embarrassed, as if he was asking me to get him a load of Trojans or one of those 
sheepskin-lined gadgets that are supposed to enhance your solitary pleasure,
I can get her,
No sweat, calm down. You want the big one or the little one?
The big one,
s draft
card. 
"Can you do it?" 
"Take it easy, sure I can. Does a bear shit in the woods?" The audience was 
applauding and catcalling as the bugs came out of the walls to get Ray Milland, who was 
having a bad case of the DT
How soon?
A week. Maybe less.
Okay. 
How much?
d been 
a good customer, what with his rock-hammer and his rock-blankets. Furthermore, he
s head open. 
Posters are a big part of my business, just behind the booze and cigarettes, usually 
half a step ahead of the reefer. In the 60s the business exploded in every direction, with a 
lot of people wanting funky hang-ups like Jimi Hendrix, Bob Dylan, that Easy Rider 
poster. But mostly it
ve 
done time in solitary a time or three over the years, but when it
s cell, 
the assumption was that it came in the mail from a friend or a relative. Of course all the 
care-packages from friends and relatives are opened and the contents inventoried, but 
who goes back and re-checks the inventory sheets for something as harmless as a Rita 
Hayworth or an Ava Gardner pin-up? When you
s apple. 
You learn to make allowances. 
It was Ernie again who took the poster up to Andy
s careful hand, just one word: Thanks. "A 
little while later, as they filed us out for morning chow, I glanced into his ceil and saw 
Rita over his bunk in all her swim suited glory, one hand behind her head, her eyes half
closed, those soft, satiny lips parted. It was over his bunk when he could look at her 
nights, after lights out, in the glow of the arc sodiums in the exercise yard. But in the 
bright morning sunlight, there were dark slashes across her face-the shadow of the bars 
on his single slit-window. 
Now I
s three-year series of skirmishes with the sisters. It was also the incident which 
eventually got him out of the laundry and into the library, where he filled out his work
time until he left our happy little family earlier this year. 
You may have noticed now much of what I
ve simplified it even 
more than it really was, and have actually repeated (or will repeat) fourth- or fifth-hand 
information. That
re going to stay ahead. Also, of course, you have to know how to pick out the grains 
of truth from the chaff of lies, rumors, and wish-it-had-beens. You may also have gotten 
the idea that I
s more legend than man, and I would have to 
agree that there
s name that it
t lie. 
Andy and I were on fair speaking terms by then. The guy fascinated me. Looking 
back to the poster episode, I see there
d forgotten all about it by then, and had gone on 
to other deals), Ernie passed a small white box through the bars of my cell. 
"From Dufresne," he said, low, and never missed a stroke with his push-broom. 
Thanks, Ernie," I said, and slipped him half a pack of Camels. 
Now what the hell was this, I was wondering as I slipped the cover from the box. 
There was a lot of white cotton inside, and below that... 
I looked for a long time. For a few minutes it was like I didn
s a crying shortage of pretty things in the slam, and the real 
pity of it is that a lot of men don
t been so heavy, they would have served as a fine pair of 
men
s the thing 
that really separates us from the animals, I think-and I felt something else, too. A sense of 
awe for the man
s and my own. 
For the next week we
d put it up against the side of that low, lit building. Then 
we
d jitterbug all the way to the infirmary. 
There were six guards on the project, all of them picked on the basis of seniority. It 
was almost as good as a week
t even have to keep more than half an eye on us, because the south wall 
sentry post was close enough so that the fellows up there could have spit their chews on 
us, if they
d been at Shawshank 
longer than I had. Longer than the last two wardens put together, as a matter of fact. The 
fellow running the show in 1950 was a prissy-looking downcast Yankee named George 
Dunahy. He had a degree in penal administration. No one liked him, as far as I could tell, 
except the people who had gotten him his appointment. I heard that he wasn
t 
quite manage it. During Stammas
t move fast enough to suit him, he
t, or 
won
s supposed to define your outlook on life when you answer it. For Byron Hadley the 
answer would always be half empty, the glass is half empty. Forever and ever, amen. If 
you gave him a cool drink of apple cider, he
d tell you it was because she was so damn ugly. 
So there he sat, talking to Mert Entwhistle loud enough for all of us to hear, his broad 
white forehead already starting to redden with the sun. He had one hand thrown back 
over the low parapet surrounding the roof. The other was on the butt of his.38. We all got 
the story along with Mert. It seemed that Hadley
t heard from the son of a bitch 
since. They had all assumed he was dead, and good riddance. Then, a week and a half 
ago, a lawyer had called them long distance from Austin. It seemed that Hadley
It's frigging incredible how lucky 
some assholes can get,
t a millionaire-that might have made even him happy, at least for a while
but the brother had left a pretty damned decent bequest of thirty-five thousand dollars to 
each surviving member of his family back in Maine, if they could be found. Not bad. 
Like getting lucky and winning a sweepstakes. 
But to Byron Hadley the glass was always half-empty. He spent most of the morning 
bitching to Mert about the bite that the goddam government was going to take out of his 
windfall. "They
 he allowed, “and then 
what happens? You have to pay the damn taxes on the car, and the repairs and 
maintenance, you get your goddam kids pestering you to take 'em for a ride with the top 
down -
And to drive it, if they're old enough,
t say what must have been as obvious to him 
as to the rest of us: If that money
ll just 
take it off your hands. After all, what are friends for? 
That
 Byron 
said with a shudder. 
t have enough left over to pay the overdraft, you got to pay out of 
your own pocket, or maybe even borrow it from one of those kikey loan agencies. And 
they audit you anyway, you know. It don
s purple, and you end up getting the short end. Christ. "He lapsed 
into a morose silence, thinking of what terrible bad luck he
do you trust 
your wife?" Hadley just stared at him. He was starting to get red in the face, and I knew 
that was a bad sign. In about three seconds he as going to pull his billy and give Andy the 
butt end of it right in the solar plexus, where that big bundle of nerves is. A hard enough 
hit there can kill you, but they always go for it. If it doesn’t kill you it will paralyze you 
long enough to forget whatever cute move it was that you had planned. 
"Boy," Hadley said, “I’ll give you just one chance to pick up that Padd. And then 
you
 "off this roof on your head." 
Andy just looked at him, very calm and still. His eyes were like ice. It was as if he 
hadn
re asked (and then you always tell them just what 
they wanting to hear and shut up again). Black man, white man, red man., yellow man, in 
prison it doesn
ve got our own brand of equality. In prison every 
con
re in stir you belong to the state and if you forget it, woe is you. I
ve lost eyes, men who
s cracked already, and 
in Shawshank there have always been Hadleys wiling to finish the job of breaking it. 
Andy said, 
 
Hadley got up. Mert got up. Tim Youngblood got up. Hadley's face was as red as the 
side of a firebarn. 
 he said, “is going to be how many bones you 
still get unbroken. You can count them in the infirmary. Come on, Mert We're throwing 
this sucker over the side.
t resist. 
His eyes never left Hadley
If you've got your thumb on her, Mr. Hadley,
there
t have every cent of that money. Final score, 
Mr. Byron Hadley thirty-five thousand, Uncle Sam zip." 
Mert started to drag him towards the edge. Hadley just stood still. For a moment 
Andy was like a rope between them in a tug-of-war game. Then Hadley said, “Hold on 
one second, Mert. What do you mean, boy?" 
"I mean, if you
 Andy said. 

re going over." 
"The government allows you a one-time-only gift to your spouse," Andy said. "It
 
Hadley was now looking at Andy as if he had been poleaxed. 
t right," 
he said. "Tax free?" 
"Tax free," Andy said. "IRS can
 

 
Tim Youngblood said: “He used to be a banker, Byron. I s'pose he might-
Shut ya head, Trout,
You're the smart banker who shot his wife. Why 
should I believe a smart banker like you? So I can wind up in here breaking rocks right 
alongside you? You'd like that, wouldn't you?
d go to a federal 
penitentiary, not Shawshank. But you won
ve done dozens... no, hundreds of them. It
 
26 
Stephen King 

re lying," Hadley said, but he didn
t. There was 
an emotion dawning on his face, something that was grotesque overlying that long, ugly 
countenance and that receding, sunburned brow. An almost obscene emotion when seen 
on the features of Byron Hadley. It was hope. 
"No, I
s no reason why you should take my word for it, either. 
Engage a lawyer -" 
"Ambulance-chasing highway-robbing cocksuckers!" Hadley cried. Andy shrugged. 
"Then go to the IRS. They
t need me 
to tell you at all. You would have investigated the matter for yourself." 
"You fucking-A. I don
 

ll need a tax lawyer or a banker to set up the gift for you and that will cost you 
something," Andy said. "Or...if you were interested, I
 

 Mert said, and let out a rusty guffaw. He slapped his knee. A real 
knee-slapper was old Mert, and I hope he died of intestinal cancer in a part of the world 
were morphine is as of yet undiscovered. 
t that cute? Co-workers! You 
ain
 

 trap," Hadley growled, and Mert shut. Hadley looked at Andy 
again. "What was you saying?" 
"I was saying that I
 Andy said. 
s working out of doors in 
the springtime if he can have a bottle of suds. That
m sure you
 
I have talked to some of the other men who were up there that day-Rennie Martin, 
Logan St Pierre, and Paul Bonsaint were three of them-and we all saw the same thing 
then... felt the same thing. Suddenly it was Andy who had the upper hand. It was Hadley 
who had the gun on his hip and the billy in his hand, Hadley who had his friend Greg 
Staminas behind him and the whole prison administration behind Stammas, the whole 
power of the state behind that, but all at once in that golden sunshine it didn't matter, and 
I felt my heart leap up in my chest as it never had since the truck drove me and four 
others through the gate back in 1938 and I stepped out into the exercise yard. 
Andy was looking at Hadley with those cold, clear, calm eyes, and it wasn't just the 
thirty-five thousand then, we all agreed on that. I've played it over and over in my mind 
and I know. It was man against man, and Andy simply forced him, the way a strong man 
can force a weaker man's wrist to the table in a game of Indian wrestling. There was no 
reason, you see, why Hadley couldn't've given Mert the nod at that very minute, pitched 
Andy overside onto his head, and still taken Andy's advice. 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
27 
No reason. But he didn't. 

 Hadley said. 
re workin
The colossal prick even managed to sound magnanimous. 

d just give you one piece of advice the IRS wouldn
 Andy said. His 
eyes were fixed unwinkingly on Hadley's. 
re sure. If 
you think there
 

 Hadley asked harshly. 
t dare fart unless I gave her the 
nod." 
Mert, Youngblood, and the other screws yucked it up dutifully. Andy never cracked a 
smile. 
"I
 he said. 
ll fill them out for your signature." 
That sounded suitably important, and Hadley
 at? Move your asses, 
goddammit!" He looked back at Andy. "You come over here with me, hotshot. And listen 
to me well: if you
re gonna find yourself chasing your head 
around Shower C before the week
 

 Andy said softly. 
And he did understand it. The way it turned out, he understood a lot more than I did
more than any of us did. 
That's how, on the second-to-last day of the job, the convict crew that tarred the plate
factory roof in 1950 ending up sitting in a row at ten o'clock on a spring morning, 
drinking Black Label beer supplied by the hardest screw that ever walked a turn at 
Shawshank Prison. That beer was piss-warm, but it was still the best I ever had in my life. 
We sat and drank it and felt the sun on our shoulders, and not even the expression of half 
amusement, half-contempt on Hadley's face-as if he was watching apes drink beer instead 
of men -could spoil it. It lasted twenty minutes, that beer-break, and for those twenty 
minutes we felt like free men. We could have been drinking beer and tarring the roof of 
one of our own houses. 
Only Andy didn't drink. I already told you about his drinking habits. He sat hunkered 
down in the shade, hands dangling between his knees, watching us and smiling a little. 
It's amazing how many men remember him that way, and amazing how many men were 
on that work-crew when Andy Dufresne faced down Byron Hadley. I thought there were 
nine or ten of us, but by 1955 there must have been two hundred of us, maybe more... if 
you believed what you heard. 
28 
Stephen King 
So, yeah-if you asked me to give you a flat-out answer to the question of whether I'm 
trying to tell you about a man or a legend that got made up around the man, like a pearl 
around a little piece of grit-I'd have to say that the answer lies somewhere in between. 
All I know for sure is that Andy Dufresne wasn't much like me or anyone else I ever 
knew since I came inside. He brought in five hundred dollars jammed up his back porch, 
but somehow that gray meat son of a bitch managed to bring in something else as well. A 
sense of his own worth, maybe, or a feeling that he would be the winner in the end... or 
maybe it was only a sense of freedom, even inside these goddamned grey walls. It was a 
kind of inner light he carried around with him. I only knew him to lose that light once, 
and that is also a part of this story. 
By World Series time of 1950-this was the year Bobby Thompson hit his famous 
home run at the end of the season, you will remember-Andy was having no more trouble 
from the sisters. Stammas and Hadley had passed the word. If Andy Dufresne came to 
either of them or any of the other screws that formed a part of their coterie, and showed 
so much as a single drop of blood in his underpants, every sister in Shawshank would go 
to bed that night with a headache. They didn't fight it. As I have pointed out, there was 
always an eighteen-year-old car thief or a firebug or some guy who'd gotten his kicks 
handling little children. After the day on the plate-shop roof, Andy went his way and the 
sisters went theirs. 
He was working in the library then, under a tough old con named Brooks Hatlen. 
Hatlen had gotten the job back in the late 20s because he had a college education. 
Brooksie's degree was in animal husbandry, true enough, but college educations in 
institutes of lower learning like The Shank are so rare that it’s a case of beggars not being 
able to be choosers. 
In 1952 Brooksie, who had killed his wife and daughter after a losing streak at poker 
back when Coolidge was President, was paroled. As usual, the state in all its wisdom had 
let him go long after any chance he might have had to become a useful part of society 
was gone. He was sixty-eight and arthritic when he tottered out of the main gate in his 
Polish suit and his French shoes, his parole papers in one hand and a Greyhound bus 
ticket in the other. He was crying when he left. Shawshank was his world. What lay 
beyond its walls was as terrible to Brooks as the Western Seas had been to superstitious 
13th-century sailors. In prison, Brooksie had been a person of some importance. He was 
the head librarian, an educated man. If he went to the Kittery library and asked or a job, 
they wouldn't give him a library card. I heard he lied in a home for indigent old folks up 
Freeport way in 1952, and at that he lasted about six months longer than I thought he 
would. Yeah, I guess the state got its own back on Brooksie, all right. They trained him to 
like it inside the shithouse and then they threw him out. 
Andy succeeded to Brooksie's job, and he was head librarian for twenty-three years. 
He used the same force of will I'd seen him use on Byron Hadley to get what he wanted 
for the library, and I saw him gradually turn one small room (which still smelled of 
turpentine because it had been a paint closet until 1922 and had never been properly 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
29 
aired) lined with Reader's Digest Condensed Books and National Geographies into the 
best prison library in New England. 
He did it a step at a time. He put a suggestion box by the door and patiently weeded 
out such attempts at humor as More Fuk-Boox Pleeze and Escape in 10 EZ Lesions. He 
got sold of the things the prisoners seemed serious about. He wrote to three major book 
clubs in New York and got two of them, The Literary Guild and The Book of the Month 
Club, to send editions of all their major selections to us at a special cheap rate. He 
discovered a hunger for information on such snail hobbies as soap-carving, 
woodworking, sleight of hand, and card solitaire. He got all the books he could on such 
subjects. And those two jailhouse staples, Erie Stanley Gardener and Louis L'Amour. 
Cons never seem to get enough of the courtroom or the open range. And yes, he did keep 
a box of fairly spicy paperbacks under the checkout desk, loaning them out carefully and 
making sure they always got back. Even so, each new acquisition of that type was 
quickly read to tatters. He began to write to the state senate in Augusta in 1954. Staminas 
was warden by then, and he used to pretend Andy was some sort of mascot He was 
always in the library, shooting the bull with Andy, and sometimes he'd even throw a 
paternal arm around Andy's shoulders or give him a goose. He didn't fool anybody. Andy 
Dufresne was no one's mascot. 
He told Andy that maybe he'd been a banker on the outside, but that part of his life 
was receding rapidly into his past and he had better get a hold on the facts of prison life. 
As far as that bunch of jumped-up Republican Rotarians in Augusta was concerned, there 
were only three viable expenditures of the taxpayers
t that just too 
fucking bad? 
Andy smiled his small, composed smile and asked Stammas what would happen to a 
block of concrete if a drop of water fell on it once every year for a million years. 
Stammas laughed and clapped Andy on the back. "You got no million years, old horse, 
but if you did, I believe you
ll even mail them for you if you pay for the stamps. "Which Andy 
did. And he had the last laugh, although Stammas and Hadley weren
s requests for library funds were routinely turned down until 1960, when he 
received a check for two hundred dollars-the senate probably appropriated it in hopes that 
he would shut up and go away. Vain hope. Andy felt that he had finally gotten one foot in 
the door and he simply redoubled his efforts; two letters a week instead of one. In 1962 
he got four hundred dollars, and for the rest of the decade the library received seven 
hundred dollars a year like clockwork. By 1971 that had risen to an even thousand. Not 
much stacked up against what your average small-town library receives, I guess, but a 
thousand bucks can buy a lot of recycled Perry Mason stories and Jake Logan Westerns. 
By the time Andy left, you could go into the library (expanded from its original paint
30 
Stephen King 
locker to three rooms), and find just about anything you
t find 
it, chances were good that Andy could get it for you. 
Now you
ll be damned if he didn
s rush, and I believe he must have been dreaming about all the 
millions his book was going to make him. By April of 1951, Andy was doing the tax 
returns for half the screws at Shawshank, and by 1952, he was doing almost all of them. 
He was paid in what may be a prison
s office, Andy became even more 
important-but if I tried to tell you the specifics of just how, I
 
by the prisoners. All at once some fellow would be excused from working in the plate
shop on Saturday forenoons, and you'd know that fellow had an angel out there who'd 
coughed up a chuck of dough to make sure it happened. The way it usually works is that 
the angel will pay the bribe to some middle-level screw, and the screw will spread the 
grease both up and down the administrative ladder. 
Then there was the discount auto repair service that laid Warden Dunahy low, It went 
underground for a while and then emerged stronger than ever in the late fifties. And some 
of the contractors that worked at the prison from time to time were paying kickbacks to 
the top administration officials, I'm pretty sure, and the same was almost certainly true of 
the companies whose equipment was bought and installed in the laundry and the license
plate shop and the stamping-mill that was built in 1963. 
By the late sixties there was also a booming trade in pills, and the same administrative 
crowd was involved in turning a buck on that All of it added up to a pretty good-sized 
river of illicit income. Not like the pile of clandestine bucks that must fly around a really 
big prison like Attica or San Quentin, but not peanuts, either. And money itself becomes 
a problem after a while. You can't just stuff it into your wallet and then shell out a bunch 
of crumpled twenties and dog-eared tens when you want a pool built in your back yard or 
an addition put on your house. Once you get past a certain point, you have to explain 
where that money came from... and if your explanations aren't convincing enough, you're 
apt to wind up wearing a number yourself. 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
31 
So there was a need for Andy's services. They took him out of the laundry and 
installed him in the library, but if you wanted to look at it another way, they never took 
him out of the laundry at all. They just set him to work washing dirty money instead of 
dirty sheets. He funneled it into stocks, bonds, tax-free municipals, you name it. He told 
me once about ten years after that day on the plate-shop roof that his feelings about what 
he was doing were pretty clear, and that his conscience was relatively untroubled. The 
rackets would have gone on with him or without him. He had not asked to be sent to 
Shawshank, he went on; he was an innocent man who had been victimized by colossal 
bad luck, not a missionary or a do-gooder. 

 he told me with that same half-grin, “what I'm doing in here isn't all 
that different from what I was doing outside. I'll hand you a pretty cynical axiom: the 
amount of expert financial help an individual or company needs rises in direct proportion 
to how many people that person or business is screwing. 
The people who run this place are stupid, brutal monsters for the most part. The 
people who run the straight world are brutal and monstrous, but they happen not to be 
quite as stupid, because the standard of competence out there is a little higher. Not much, 
but a little.
But the pills,
I don't want to tell you your business, but they make me 
nervous. Reds, uppers, downers, nembutals-now they've got these things they call Phase 
Fours. I won't get anything like that. Never have.
No,
I don't like the pills either. Never have. But I'm not much of a one 
for cigarettes or booze, either. But I don't push the pills. I don't bring them in, and I don't 
sell them once they are in. Mostly it's the screws who do that.
But-
Yeah, I know. There's a fine line there. What it comes down to, Red, is some people 
refuse to get their hands dirty at all. That's called sainthood, and the pigeons land on your 
shoulders and crap all over your shirt. The other extreme is to take a bath in the dirt and 
deal any goddamned thing that will turn a dollar-guns, switchblades, big H, what the hell. 
You ever have a con come up to you and offer you a contract?
s happened a 
lot of times over the years. You
ll use a knife. 
"Sure you have," Andy agreed. "But you don
s a third choice. An alternative to staying simon-pure or bathing in the filth 
and the slime. It
re doing by how well you sleep at night... and what your dreams are like." 
"Good intentions," I said, and laughed. "I know all about that, Andy. A fellow can 
toddle right off to hell on that road." 
32 
Stephen King 
"Don
 he said, growing somber. 
ve also got the 
library, and I know of over two dozen guys who have used the books in here to help them 
pass their high school equivalency tests. Maybe when they get out of here they
s the trade-off." 
"And you
 

s the way I like it." 
The prison population had risen slowly all through the fifties, and it damn near 
exploded in the sixties, what with every college-age kid in America wanting to try dope 
and the perfectly ridiculous penalties for the use of a little reefer. But in all that time 
Andy never had a cellmate, except for a big, silent Indian named Normaden (like all 
Indians in The Shank, he was called Chief), and Normaden didn
d said, they liked to keep him happy. He worked cheap. 
Prison time is slow time, sometimes you
s stop-time, but it passes. It passes. 
George Dunahy departed the scene in a welter of newspaper headlines shouting 
SCANDAL and NEST-FEATHERING. Stammas succeeded him, and for the next six 
years Shawshank was a kind of living hell. During the reign of Greg Stammas, the beds 
in the infirmary and the cells in the solitary wing were always full. One day in 1958 I 
looked at myself in a small shaving mirror I kept in my cell and saw a forty-year-old man 
looking back at me. A kid had come in back in 1938, a kid with a big mop of carroty red 
hair, half-crazy with remorse, thinking about suicide. That kid was gone. The red hair 
was half grey and starting to recede. There were crow
s cell with him. Then everything just 
started up again. Normaden was moved out, and Andy was living in solitary splendor 
again. The names at the top change, but the rackets never do. 
I talked to Normaden once about Andy. "Nice fella," Normaden said. It was hard to 
make out anything he said because he had & harelip and a cleft palate; his words all came 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
33 
out in a slush. "I liked it there. He never made fun. But he didn
Big shrug. 
t let nobody touch his things. That
Rita Hay worth hung in Andy's cell until 1955, if I remember right Then it was 
Marilyn Monroe, that picture from The Seven Year Itch where she's standing over a 
subway grating and the warm air is flipping her skirt up. Marilyn lasted until 1960, and 
she was considerably tattered about the edges when Andy replaced her with Jayne 
Mansfield. Jayne was, you should pardon the expression, a bust. After only a year or so 
she was replaced with an English actress-might have been Hazel Court, but I'm not sure. 
In 1966 that one came down and Raquel Welch went up for a record-breaking six-year 
engagement in Andy's cell. The last poster to hang there was a pretty country-rock singer 
whose name was Linda Ronstadt I asked him once what the posters meant to him, and he 
gave me a peculiar, surprised sort of look. 
 he said. 
s why I always liked Raquel Welch the best It wasn
t you ever feel 
that way about a picture, Red? That you could almost step right through it?" I said I
Maybe someday you'll see what I mean,
d said it was always cold in Andy
63. 
We had another warden by then, a man named Samuel Norton. The Mather brothers, 
Cotton and Increase, would have felt right at home with Sam Norton. So far as I know, no 
one had ever seen him so much as crack a smile. He had a thirty-year pin from the Baptist 
Advent Church of Eliot. His major innovation as the head of our happy family was to 
make sure that each incoming prisoner had a New Testament. He had a small plaque on 
his desk, gold letters inlaid in teakwood, which said CHRIST IS MY SAVIOUR. A 
sampler on the wall, made by his wife, read: HIS JUDGMENT COMETH AND THAT 
RIGHT EARLY. This latter sentiment cut zero ice with most of us. We felt that the 
judgment had already occurred, and we would be willing to testify with the best of them 
that the rock would not hide us nor the dead tree give us shelter. He had a Bible quote for 
every occasion, did Mr. Sam Norton, and whenever you meet a man like that, my best 
advice to you would be to grin big and cover up your balls with both hands. There were 
less infirmary cases than in the days of Greg Stammas, and so far as I know the 
moonlight burials ceased altogether, but this is not to say that Norton was not a believer 
in punishment. Solitary was always well populated. Men lost their teeth not from beatings 
34 
Stephen King 
but from bread and water diets. It began to be called grain and drain, as in I'm on the Sam 
Norton grain and drain train, boys.
 program you may have read 
about some sixteen or seventeen years back; it was even written up in Newsweek. In the 
press it sounded like a real advance in practical corrections and rehabilitation. There were 
prisoners out cutting pulpwood, prisoners repairing bridges and causeways, prisoners 
constructing potato cellars. Norton called it “Inside-Out
, but so far as I know, none 
of them were ever invited to express their views to the Kiwanians or the Loyal Order of 
the Moose. 
Norton was right in there on every operation, thirty-year church-pin and all, from 
cutting pulp to digging storm-drains to laying new culverts on state highways, there was 
Norton, skimming off the top. There were a hundred ways to do it -men, materials, you 
name it. But he had it coming another way, as well. The construction businesses in the 
area were deathly afraid of Norton's Inside-Out program, because prison labor is slave 
labor, and you can't compete with that. So Sam Norton, he of the Testaments and the 
thirty-year church-pin, was passed a good many thick envelope sunder the table during 
his fifteen-year tenure as Shawshank's warden. And when an envelope was passed, he 
would either overbid the project, not bid at all, or claim that all his Inside-Outers were 
committed elsewhere. It has always been something of a wonder to me that Norton was 
never found in the trunk of a Thunderbird parked off a highway somewhere down in 
Massachusetts with his hands tied behind his back and half a dozen bullets in his head. 
Anyway, as the old barrelhouse song says, My God, how the money rolled in. Norton 
must have subscribed to the old Puritan notion that the best way to figure out which folks 
God favors is by checking their bank accounts. 
Andy Dufresne was his right hand in all of this, his silent partner. The prison library 
was Andy's hostage to fortune. Norton knew it, and Norton used it. Andy told me that one 
of Norton's favorite aphorisms was One hand washes the other. So Andy gave good 
advice and made useful suggestions. I can't say for sure that he hand-tooled Norton's 
Inside-Out program, but I'm damned sure he processed the money for the Jesus-shouting 
son of a whore. He gave good advice, made useful suggestions, the money got spread 
around, and... son of a bitch! The library would get a new set of automotive repair 
manuals, a fresh set of Grolier Encyclopedias, books on how to prepare for the Scholastic 
Achievement Tests. And, of course, more Erie Stanley Gardeners and more Louis 
L'Amours. And I'm convinced that what happened happened because Norton just didn't 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
35 
want to lose his good right hand. I'll go further: it happened because he was scared of 
what might happen-what Andy might say against him-if Andy ever got clear of 
Shawshank State Prison. 
I got the story a chunk here and a chunk there over a space of seven years, some of it 
from Andy-but not all. He never wanted to talk about that part of his life, and I don't 
blame him. I got parts of it from maybe half a dozen different sources. I've said once that 
prisoners are nothing but slaves, but they have that slave habit of looking dumb and 
keeping their ears open. I got it backwards and forwards and in the middle, but I'll give it 
to you from point A to point Z, and maybe you'll understand why the man spent about ten 
months in a bleak, depressed daze. See, I don't think he knew the truth until 1963, fifteen 
years after he came into this sweet little hell-hole. Until he met Tommy Williams, I don't 
think he knew how bad it could get. 
Tommy Williams joined our happy little Shawshank family in November of 1962. 
Tommy thought of himself as a native of Massachusetts, but he wasn't proud; in his 
twenty-seven years he'd done time all over New England. He was a professional thief, 
and as you may have guessed, my own feeling was that he should have picked another 
profession. 
He was a married man, and his wife came to visit each and every week. She had an 
idea that things might go better with Tommy-and consequently better with their three
year-old and herself-if he got his high school degree. She talked him into it, and so 
Tommy Williams started visiting the library on a regular basis. For Andy, this was an old 
routine by then. He saw that Tommy got a series of high school equivalency tests. 
Tommy would brush up on the subjects he had passed in high-school -there weren't 
many-and then take the test. Andy also saw that he was enrolled in a number of 
correspondence courses covering the subjects he had failed in school or just missed by 
dropping out. He probably wasn't the best student Andy ever took over the jumps, and I 
don't know if he ever did get his high school diploma, but that forms no part of my story. 
The important thing was that he came to like Andy Dufresne very much, as most people 
did after a while. 
On a couple of occasions he asked Andy “what a smart guy like you is doing in the 
joint
 But Andy wasn't the type to tell him; he would only 
smile and turn the conversation into some other channel. Quite normally, Tommy asked 
someone else, and when he finally got the story, I guess he also got the shock of his 
young life. The person he asked was his partner on the laundry's steam ironer and folder. 
The inmates call this device the mangler, because that's exactly what it will do to you if 
you aren't paying attention and get your bad self caught in it. His partner was Charlie 
Lathrop, who had been in for about twelve years on a murder charge. He was more than 
glad to reheat the details of the Dufresne murder trial for Tommy; it broke the monotony 
of pulling freshly pressed bedsheets out of the machine and tucking them into the basket. 
He was just getting to the jury waiting until after lunch to bring in their guilty verdict 
when the trouble whistle went off and the mangler grated to a stop. They had been 
feeding in freshly washed sheets from the Eliot Nursing Home at the far end; these were 
36 
Stephen King 
spat out dry and neatly pressed at Tommy's and Charlie's end at the rate of one every five 
seconds. Their job was to grab them, fold them, and slap them into the cart, which had 
already been lined with brown paper. 
But Tommy Williams was just standing there, staring at Charlie Lathrop, his mouth 
unhinged all the way to his chest. He was standing in & drift of sheets that had come 
through dean and which were now sopping up all the wet muck on the floor-and in a 
laundry wetwash, there's plenty of muck. 
So the head bull that day, Homer Jessup, comes rushing over, bellowing his head off 
and on the prod for trouble. Tommy took no notice of him. He spoke to Charlie as if old 
Homer, who had busted more heads than he could probably count, hadn't been there. 

s name was?" 
"Quentin," Charlie answered back, all confused and upset by now. He later said that 
the kid was as white as a truce flag, “Glenn Quentin, I think. Something like that, anyway -" 
"Here now, here now," Homer Jessup roared, his neck as red as a rooster
Get 
them sheets in cold water! Get quick! Get quick, by Jesus, you -
Glenn Quentin, oh my God,
t answer. Before that afternoon was out he 
had caught up with Billy Hanlon, who was the head screw, and set up an appointment 
with Warden Norton for the following day. He told me later that he didn
s name was Hope. Williams had produced the key that unlocked the cage and 
the tiger was out, willy-nilly, to roam his brain. 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
37 
Four years before, Tommy Williams had been arrested in Rhode Island, driving a 
stolen car that was full of stolen merchandise. Tommy turned in his accomplice, the DA 
played ball, and he got a lighter sentence... two to four, with time served. Eleven months 
after beginning his term, his old cellmate got a ticket out and Tommy got a new one, a 
man named Elwood Blatch. Blatch had been busted for burglary with a weapon and was 
serving six to twelve. 
"I never seen such a high-strung guy," Tommy said. "A man like that should never 
want to be a burglar, specially not with a gun. The slightest little noise, he
I did seven months with bun, until they let me walk free. I got time served and time 
off, you understand. I can't say we talked because you didn't, you know, exactly hold a 
conversation with El Blatch. He held a conversation with you. He talked all the time. 
Never shut up. If you tried to get a word in, he'd shake his fist at you and roll his eyes. It 
gave me the cold chills whenever he done that. Big tall guy he was, mostly bald, with 
these green eyes set way down deep in the sockets. Jeez, I hope I never see him again. 
 jag every night When he grew up, the orphanages he run away from, the 
jobs he done, the women he
t much, but I didn
According to him, 
he'd burgled over two hundred joints. It was hard for me to believe, a guy like him who 
went off like a firecracker every time someone cut a loud fart, but he swore it was true. 
Now... listen to me, Red. I know guys sometimes make things up after they know a thing, 
but even before I knew about this golf pro guy, Quentin, I remember thinking that if El 
Blatch ever burgled my house, and I found out about it later, I'd have to count myself just 
about the luckiest motherfucker going still to be alive. Can you imagine him in some 
lady's bedroom, sifting through her jool'ry box, and she coughs in her sleep or turns over 
quick? It gives me the cold chills just to think of something like that, I swear on my 
mother's name it does. 

d killed people, too. People that gave him shit. At least that
t no good for 
nothing, except maybe for something to jaw about. The pull on that gun was so light that 
it would fire if this guy, Johnny Callahan, his name was, if he turned his record-player on 
full volume and put it on top of one of the speakers. That
t 
explain it any better. I just never doubted that he had greased some people. "So one night, 
just for something to say, I go: “Who’d you kill?" Like a joke, you know. So he laughs 
and says, 
s one guy doing time up Maine for these two people I killed. It was this 
guy and the wife of the slob who
 

t remember if he ever told me the woman
 Tommy went on. 

s like Smith or Jones in the rest of the 
country, because there
s name. He said the guy was 
38 
Stephen King 
Glenn Quentin and he was a prick, a big rich prick, a golf pro. El said he thought the guy 
might have cash in the house, maybe as much as five thousand dollars. That was a lot of 
money back then, he says to me. So I go, “When was that?" And he goes, “After the war. 
Just after the war." 
"So he went in and he did the joint and they woke up and the guy gave him some 
trouble. That
s what I say. 
Anyway, El said Quentin was in the sack with some hotshot lawyer
 
I guess you can see why Andy went a little wonky when Tommy told him that story, 
and why he wanted to see the warden right away. Elwood Blatch had been serving a six
to-twelve rap when Tommy knew him four years before. By the time Andy heard all of 
this, in 1963, he might be on the verge of getting out... or already out. So those were the 
two prongs of the spit Andy was roasting on-the idea that Blatch might still be in on one 
hand, and the very real possibility that he might be gone like the wind on the other. There 
were inconsistencies in Tommy's story, but aren't there always in real life? Blatch told 
Tommy the man who got sent up was a hotshot lawyer, and Andy was a banker, but those 
are two professions that people who aren't very educated could easily get mixed up. And 
don't forget that twelve years had gone by between the time Blatch was reading the 
clippings about the trial and the time he told the tale to Tommy Williams. He also told 
Tommy he got better than a thousand dollars from a footlocker Quentin had in his closet, 
but the police said at Andy's trial that there had been no sign of burglary. I have a few 
ideas about that. First, if you take the cash and the man it belonged to is dead, how are 
you going to know anything was stolen, unless someone else can tell you it was there to 
start with? Second, who's to say Blatch wasn't lying about that part of it? Maybe he didn't 
want to admit killing two people for nothing. Third, maybe there were signs of burglary 
and the cops either overlooked them-cops can be pretty dumb-or deliberately covered 
them up so they wouldn't screw the DA's case. The guy was running for public office, 
remember, and he needed a conviction to run on. An unsolved burglary-murder would 
have done him no good at all. But of the three, I like the middle one best. I've known a 
few Elwood Blatches in my time at Shawshank-the trigger-pullers with the crazy eyes. 
Such fellows want you to think they got away with the equivalent of the Hope Diamond 
on every caper, even if they got caught with a two-dollar Timex and nine bucks on the 
one they're doing time for. And there was one thing in Tommy's story that convinced 
Andy beyond a shadow of a doubt. Blatch hadn't hit Quentin at random. He had called 
Quentin “a big rich prick
s affair. There was a marina with the country club, and for a 
while in 1947 there had been a part-time grease-and-gas jockey working there who 
matched Tommy
t there long, Andy said. Either he quit or Briggs, the fellow in 
charge of the marina, fired him. But he wasn
s grass in the fields beyond 
the prison. The warden has a good-sized office in the administration wing, and behind the 
warden
s a door which connects with the assistant warden
s sidekick. Chester was supposed to be watering the plants and dusting 
and waxing the floor. My guess is that the plants went thirsty that day and the only 
waxing that was done happened because of Chester
s main door open and close and then Norton saying, “Good 
morning, Dufresne, how can I help you?" 
"Warden," Andy began, and old Chester told us that he could hardly recognize Andy
Warden... there's something... something's happened to me 
that's... that's so... so... I hardly know where to begin.
Well, why don't you just begin at the beginning?
s-all-turn-to-the-23rd-psalm-and-read-in-unisonvoice. "That usually works 
the best." 
And so Andy did. He began by refreshing Norton of the details of the crime he had 
been imprisoned for. Then he told the warden exactly what Tommy Williams had told 
him. He also gave out Tommy
t so wise in light of 
later developments, but I
Yes,
s the damnedest story I ever heard. But I
 

s that, sir?" 
"That you were taken in by it." 
"Sir? I don
And Chester said that Andy Dufresne, who 
had faced down Byron Hadley on the plate-shop roof thirteen years before, was almost 
floundering for words. 

 Norton said. 
s pretty obvious to me that this young fellow Williams is 
impressed with you. Quite taken with you, as a matter of fact. He hears your tale of woe, 
and it
s say. Quite natural. He
t realize what a state it would put 
you into. Now what I suggest is -" 
"Don
 Andy asked. 
d never told Tommy about the 
man working down at the marina. I never told anyone that-it never even crossed my 
mind! 
But Tommy
re identical!" 
"Well now, you may be indulging in a little selective perception there," Norton said 
with a chuckle. Phrases like that, selective perception, are required learning for people in 
the penology and corrections business, and they use them all they can. 
"That
 

s your slant on it," Norton said, “but mine differs. And let
 

 Andy broke in again. 
t true. Because-" 
"Anyway," Norton overrode him, expansive and loud, “let’s just look at it from the 
other end of the telescope, shall we? Suppose -just suppose, now-that there really was a 
fellow named Elwood Blotch." 
"Blatch," Andy said tightly. 
"Blatch, by all means. And let
s cellmate in Rhode 
Island. 
The chances are excellent that he has been released by now. Excellent. Why, we don
 

t know how much time he
s a fair chance that he may still be in. Even if he
 

 
Andy was silent for a moment, and then he burst out: “Well, it's a chance, isn't it?
Yes, of course it is. So just for a moment, Dufresne, let's assume that Blatch exists 
and that he is still safely ensconced in the Rhode Island State Penitentiary. Now what is 
he going to say if we bring this kettle of fish to him in a bucket? Is he going to fall down 
on his knees, roll his eyes, and say “I did it! I did it! By all means add a life term onto my 
burglary charge!
 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
41 

 Andy said, so low that Chester could barely hear. But 
he heard the warden just fine. 

 

 Andy cried. 
 

ve taken five minutes of my time-no, seven-and I have a very busy 
schedule today. So I believe we
 

t you realize that?" Andy 
shouted. 
They
s been fifteen years, not forever! They
ve got Tommy to testify to what Blatch told him, and Briggs to testify that 
Blatch was there, actually working at the country club, I can get a new trial! I can -" 
"Guard! Guard! Take this man away!" 
"What
 Andy said, and Chester told me he was very nearly 
screaming by then. 
s my life, my chance to get out, don
t 
make a single long-distance call to at least verify Tommy
ll pay for the 
call! I
 
Then there was a sound of thrashing as the guards grabbed him and started to drag 
him out 'solitary,
 
And so they dragged Andy away, totally out of control now, still screaming at the 
warden; Chester said you could hear him even after the door was shut: “It’s my life! It's 
my life, don't you understand it's my life?
ll tell you a little bit about Shawshank
re on the subject It
 and 
'rehabilitation
selective perception". In, those days, you were taken care of in terms 
of absolute black and white. You were either guilty or innocent. If you were guilty, you 
were either hung or put in gaol. And if you were sentenced to gaol, you did not go to an 
institution. No, you dug your own gaol with a spade provided to you by the Province of 
Maine. You dug it as wide and as deep as you could during the period between sunup and 
sundown. Then, they gave you a couple of skins and a bucket, and down you went Once 
down, the gaoler would bar the top of your hole, throw down some grain or maybe a 
42 
Stephen King 
piece of maggoty meat once or twice a week, and maybe there would be a dipperful; 
barley soup on Sunday night You pissed in the bucket, and you held up the same bucket 
for water when the gaoler came around at six in the morning. When it rained, you used 
the bucket to bail out your gaol-cell... unless, that is, you wanted to drown like a rat in a 
rain barrel. 
No one spent a long time “in the hole", as it was called; thirty months was an 
unusually long term, and so far as I
, a 
fourteen-year-old psychopath who castrated a schoolmate with a piece of rusty metal. He 
did seven years, but of course he went in young and strong. 
You have to remember that for a crime that was more serious than petty theft or 
blasphemy or forgetting to put a snotrag in your pocket when out of doors on the 
Sabbath, you were hung. For low crimes such as those just mentioned and for others like 
them, you'd do your three or six or nine months in the hole and come out fish-belly white, 
cringing from the wide-open spaces, your eyes half-blind, your teeth more than likely 
rocking and rolling in their sockets from the scurvy, your feet crawling with fungus. Jolly 
old Province of Maine. Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of rum. 
Shawshank's Solitary Wing was nowhere as badass that... I guess. Things come in 
three major degrees in the human experience, I think. There's good, bad, and terrible. And 
as you go down into progressive darkness towards terrible, it gets harder and harder to 
make subdivisions. 
To get to Solitary Wing you were led down twenty-three steps to a basement level 
where the only sound was the drip of water. The only light was supplied by a series of 
dangling sixty-watt bulbs. The cells were keg-shaped, like those wall-safes rich people 
sometimes hide behind a picture. Like a safe, the round doorways were hinged, and solid 
instead of barred. You get ventilation from above, but no light except for your own sixty
watt bulb, which was turned off from a master-switch promptly at eight p. m., an hour 
before lights-out in the rest of the prison. The wire wasn't in a wire mesh cage or 
anything like that. The feeling was that if you wanted to exist down there in the dark, you 
were welcome to it. Not many did... but after eight, of course, you had no choice. You 
had a bunk bolted to the wall and a can with no toilet seat. You had three ways to spend 
your time: sitting, shitting, or sleeping. Big choice. Twenty days could get to seem like a 
year. Thirty days could seem like two, and forty days like ten. Sometimes you could hear 
rats in the ventilation system. In a situation like that, subdivisions of terrible tend to get 
lost. 
If anything at all can be said in favor of solitary, it's just that you get time to think. 
Andy had twenty days in which to think while he enjoyed his grain and drain, and when 
he got out he requested another meeting with the warden. Request denied. Such a 
meeting, the warden told him, would be “counter-productive
s another of those 
phrases you have to master before you can go to work in the prisons and corrections field. 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
43 
Patiently, Andy renewed his request And renewed it And renewed it He had changed, 
had Andy Dufresne. Suddenly, as that spring of 1963 bloomed around us, there were 
lines in his face and sprigs of grey showing in his hair. He had lost that little trace of a 
smile that always seemed to linger around his mouth. His eyes stared out into space more 
often, and you get to know that when a man stares that way, he is counting up the years 
served, the months, the weeks, the days. 
He renewed his request and renewed it He was patient He had nothing but time. It got 
to be summer. In Washington, President Kennedy was promising a fresh assault on 
poverty and on civil rights inequalities, not knowing he had only half a year to live. In 
Liverpool, a musical group called The Beatles was emerging as a force to be reckoned 
with in British music, but I guess that no one Stateside had yet heard of them. The Boston 
Red Sox, still four years away from what New England folks call The Miracle of"67, 
were languishing in the cellar of the American League. All of those things were going on 
out in a larger world where people walked free. 
Norton saw him near the end of June, and this conversation I heard about from Andy 
himself some seven years later. 
"If it
t have to worry," Andy told Norton in a low voice. "Do 
you think I
d be cutting my own throat I
s enough," Norton interrupted. His face was as long and cold as a slate 
gravestone. 
He leaned back in his office chair until the back of his head almost touched the 
sampler reading HIS JUDGMENT COMETH AND THAT RIGHT EARLY. 
"But-" 
"Don
 Norton said. 
 

s all." 
"Well now, when I need a sorry son of a bitch like you to set my mind at ease, I
s your affair. Don
 

 Andy said. 
ll be hiring a lawyer, you know." 
"What in God
 
44 
Stephen King 

 Andy said. 
 

 

 

s been transferred." 
"Transferred where?" 
"Cashman." 
At that, Andy fell silent. He was an intelligent man, but it would have taken an 
extraordinarily stupid man not to smelt deal all over that. Cashman was a minimum
security prison far up north in Aroostook County. The inmates pick a lot of potatoes, and 
that
s nose with only one 
string attached: not one more word about Elwood Blatch, not now, not ever. Or you
ll be having it with some old bull queer. 
"But why?" Andy said. "Why would -" 
"As a favor to you," Norton said calmly, “I checked with Rhode Island. They did 
have an inmate named Elwood Blatch. He was given what they call a PP-provisional 
parole, another one of these crazy liberal programs to put criminals out on the streets. 
He
 
Andy said: 'the warden down there... is he a friend of yours?
s watch chain. "We are 
acquainted," he said. 
"Why?" Andy repeated. "Can
t going 
to talk about... about anything you might have had going. You knew that. So why? 
“Because people like you make me sick," Norton said deliberately. “I like you right 
where you are, Mr. Dufresne, and as long as I am warden here at Shawshank, you are 
going to be right here. You see, you used to think that you were better than anyone else. I 
have gotten pretty good at seeing that on a man
 wives and 
husbands and getting swinishly drunk. But you don't walk around that way anymore. And 
I'll be watching to see if you should start to walk that way again. Over a period of years, 
I'll be watching you with great pleasure. Now get the hell out of here.
Okay. But all the extracurricular activities stop now, Norton. The investment 
counseling, the scams, the free tax advice. It all stops. Get H & R Block to tell you how 
to declare your extortionate income.
s face first went brick-red... and then all the color fell out of it 
“You’re going back into solitary for that thirty days. Bread and water. Another black 
mark. And while you
s been going on should stop, 
the library goes. I will make it my personal business to see that it goes back to what it 
was before you came here. And I will make your life... very hard. Very difficult You
s possible to do. You
ll lose those rocks on the windowsill, and you
 I 
guess it was clear enough. 
Time continued to pass-the oldest trick in the world, and maybe the only one that 
really is magic. But Andy Dufresne had changed. He had grown harder. That's the only 
way I can think of to put it He went on doing Warden Norton's dirty work and he held 
onto the library, so outwardly things were about the same. He continued to have his 
birthday drinks and his New Year's Eve drinks; he continued to share out the rest of each 
bottle. I got him fresh rock-polishing cloths from time to time, and in 1967 I got him a 
new rock-hammer-the one I'd gotten him nineteen years ago had plumb worn out 
Nineteen years! When you say it sudden like that, those three syllables sound like the 
thud and double-locking of a tomb door. The rock-hammer, which had been a ten-dollar 
item back then, went for twenty-two by
millennium sandwiches"-the layers of 
different material that had built up over a period of decades and centuries. Andy would 
give his stones and his rock-sculptures away from time to time in order to make room for 
new ones. He gave me the greatest number, I think-counting the stones that looked like 
matched cufflinks, I had five. There was one of the mica sculptures I told you about, 
carefully crafted to look like a man throwing a javelin, and two of the sedimentary 
conglomerates, all the levels showing in smoothly polished cross-section. 
46 
Stephen King 
I
t the 
way I would have put it, but I know what he meant. It goes back to what I said about 
Andy wearing his freedom like an invisible coat, about how he never really developed a 
prison mentality. His eyes never got that dull look. He never developed the walk that men 
get when the day is over and they are going back to their cells for another endless night
that flat-footed, hump-shouldered walk. Andy walked with his shoulders squared and his 
step was always light, as if he was heading home to a good home-cooked meal and a 
good woman instead of to a tasteless mess of soggy vegetables, lumpy mashed potato, 
and a slice or two of that fatty, gristly stuff most of the cons called mystery meat... that, 
and a picture of Raquel Welch on the wall. But for those four years, although he never 
became exactly like the others, he did become silent, introspective, and brooding. Who 
could blame him? So maybe it was Warden Norton who was pleased... at least, for a 
while. 
His dark mood broke around the time of the 1967 World Series. That was the dream 
year, the year the Red Sox won the pennant instead of placing ninth, as the Las Vegas 
bookies had predicted. When it happened-when they won the American League pennant- 
a kind of ebullience engulfed the whole prison. There was a goofy sort of feeling that if 
the Dead Sox could come to life, then maybe anybody could do it I can
t much of a baseball fan 
anyway, and maybe that was why. Nevertheless, he seemed to have caught the current of 
good feeling, and for him it didn

tossing a Frisbee or two, passing around a football, bartering what they had to barter. 
Others would be at the long table in the Visitors
Hello, Red,
Come on and sit a spell. 
You want this?
 I just told you about “I sure do,
It's very pretty. Thank 
you.
 
I nodded. Next year would make me a thirty-year man. Sixty per cent of my life spent 
in Shawshank Prison. 
Think you'll ever get out?
Sure. When I have a long white beard and just about three marbles left rolling 
around upstairs.
Feels good.
I think it always does when you know the damn winter's almost right on top of you.
When I get out of here,
s warm all the time. 
"He spoke with such calm assurance you would have thought he had only a month or so 
left to serve. "You know where I
, Red?" 
"Nope." 
"Zihuatanejo," he said, rolling the word softly from his tongue like music. "Down in 
Mexico. It
s a hundred miles north-west of Acapulco on the Pacific Ocean. You know what the 
Mexicans say about the Pacific?" 
I told him I didn
They say it has no memory. And that's where I want to finish out my life, Red. In a 
warm place that has no memory.
s dirt infield, which 
would be under a foot of snow before long. 
"Zihuatanejo. I
ll have a guy who
ll be a trophy for the guy who catches the biggest marlin of the 
season, and I
t be a family place. It
 
48 
Stephen King 

 I asked. 

 
He looked at me and smiled. 
s not so far wrong," he said. "Sometimes you 
startle me, Red." 
"What are you talking about?" 
There are really only two types of men in the world when it comes to bad trouble," 
Andy said, cupping a match between his hands and lighting a cigarette. "Suppose there 
was a house full of rare paintings and sculptures and fine old antiques, Red? And suppose 
the guy who owned the house heard that there was a monster of a hurricane headed right 
at it. 
One of those two kinds of men just hopes for the best The hurricane will change 
course, he says to himself. No right-thinking hurricane would ever dare wipe out all these 
Rembrandts, my two Degas horses, my Jackson Pollocks and my Paul Klees. 
Furthermore, God wouldn
re insured. 
That
ll change back in order to put his house on ground zero again. 
This second type of guy knows there
re 
prepared for the worst." 
I lit a cigarette of my own. "Are you saying you prepared for the eventuality?" 
"Yes. I prepared for the hurricane. I knew how bad it looked. I didn
 

 

Andy tossed his butt away. 
He 
grimaced a little, then laughed. 
t cut any corners." 
"Didn
 

t freeze the assets of an innocent 
man-thank God. And it was a while before they even got brave enough to charge me with 
the crime. Jim-my friend-and I, we had some time. I got hit pretty good, just dumping 
everything like that. Got my nose skinned. But at the time I had worse things to worry 
about than a small skinning on the stock market." 
"Yeah, I
 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
49 

s still safe. Outside these walls, 
Red, there
s license. He
 

 I asked. I thought I knew what he was going to say, but I couldn't 
believe it. 

 

re not going to tell me that you had time to set up a false identity while the bulls 
were sweating you," I said, “or that you finished the job while you were on trial for -" 
"No, I
 

 I said. I was not sure how much of this I 
believed- a little, a lot, or none. But the day was warm and the sun was out, and it was 
one hell of a good story. 
s one hundred per cent illegal, setting up a false ID 
like that." 
"He was a close friend," Andy said. "We were in the war together. France, Germany, 
the occupation. He was a good friend. He knew it was illegal, but he also knew that 
setting up a false identity in this country is very easy and very safe. He took my money
my money with all the taxes on it paid so the IRS wouldn
 
I guess my jaw made a thump when it dropped against my chest, because he smiled. 

d invested in since 1950 or so, and two or 
three of them will be things Peter Stevens was into. If I hadn
d 
probably be worth seven or eight million bucks by now. I
 
His hands went to the dirt and began sifting out more pebbles. They moved 
gracefully, restlessly. 

 
I didn't say anything for a while. I guess I was trying to absorb the idea that this 
small, spare man in prison grey next to me could be worth more money than Warden 
Norton would make in the rest of his miserable life, even with the scams thrown in. 
50 
Stephen King 

t kidding," I said at last “For 
that kind of dough you could have hired Clarence Darrow, or whoever
t you, Andy? Christ! You could have been out of here like a 
rocket." 
He smiled. It was the same smile that had been on his face when he
No,
A good lawyer would have sprung the Williams kid from Cashman whether he 
wanted to go or not,
You could have gotten your 
new trial, hired private detectives to look for that guy Blatch, and blown Norton out of 
the water to boot. Why not, Andy?
Because I outsmarted myself. If I ever try to put my hands on Peter Stevens's money 
from inside here, I'd lose every cent of it My friend Jim could have arranged it, but Jim's 
dead. You see the problem?
s a tough life if you don
I'll tell you how it is, Red. There's a big hayfield in the town of Buxton. You 
know where Buxton is at, don't you?
That's right And at the north end of this particular hayfield there's a rock wall, right 
out of a Robert Frost poem. And somewhere along the base of that wall is a rock that has 
no business in a Maine hayfield. It's a piece of volcanic glass, and until 1947 it was a 
paperweight on my office desk. My friend Jim put it in that wall. There's a key 
underneath it. The key opens a safe deposit box in the Portland branch of the Casco 
Bank.
I guess you're in a pack of trouble,
When your friend Jim died, the IRS must 
have opened all of his safety deposit boxes. Along with the executor of his will, of 
course. 
Not bad. There's more up there 
than marshmallows, I guess. But we took care of the possibility that Jim might die while I 
was in the slam. The box is in the Peter Stevens name, and once a year the firm of 
lawyers that served as Jim's executors sends a check to the Casco to cover the rental of 
the Stevens box. 

s license. The license is six years out of date because Jim died six 
years ago, true, but it
I whistled. 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
51 

 he said. Tit for tat And the key 
that unlocks the box and the money and the new life is under a hunk of black glass in a 
Buxton hayfield. Told you this much, so I'll tell you something else, Red-for the last 
twenty years, give or take, I have been watching the papers with a more than usual 
interest for news of any construction projects in Buxton. I keep thinking that someday 
soon I'm going to read that they're putting a highway through there, or erecting a new 
community hospital, or building a shopping center. Burying my new life under ten feet of 
concrete, or spitting it into a swamp somewhere with a big load of fill. I blurted, 
 He smiled. 
 

 

s going to 
be. I just can
s all I want from my life now, Red, and I don
s too much to want. I 
didn
t kill my wife, and that hotel... it
s not 
too much to want. "He slung the stones away. 
"You know, Red," he said in an offhand voice, “a place like that... I
 
I thought about it for a long time. And the biggest drawback in my mind wasn't even 
that we were talking pipedreams in a shitty little prison exercise yard with armed guards 
looking down at us from their sentry posts. 
t do it, “I said. "I couldn
m what they call an institutional man now. In here I
m the fucking Yellow Pages. I wouldn
 

 he said. 
re a self-educated man, a self-made man. 
A rather remarkable man, I think." 
"Hell, I don
 

 he said. 
t just a piece of paper that makes a man. And it isn
 

t hack it outside, Andy. I know that. "He got up. "You think it over," he said 
casually, just as the inside whistle blew. And he strolled off, as if he was a free man who 
had just made another free man a proposition. And for a while just that was enough to 
make me feel free. Andy could do that. He could make me forget for a time that we were 
both lifers, at the mercy of a hard-ass parole board and a psalm-singing warden who liked 
Andy Dufresne right where he was. After all, Andy was a lap-dog who could do tax
returns. What a wonderful animal! But by that night in my cell I felt like a prisoner again. 
52 
Stephen King 
The whole idea seemed absurd, and that mental image of blue water and white beaches 
seemed more cruel than foolish -it dragged at my brain like a fishhook. I just couldn
s 
anvil. I was trying to rock the stone up so I could get the key that was underneath. It 
wouldn
t go over the 
wall, though, not at Shawshank, not if you
s famous “Inside-Out" program produced its share of escapees, too. They 
were the guys who decided they liked what lay to the right of the hyphen better than what 
lay to the left And again, in most cases it was a very casual kind of thing. Drop your 
blueberry rake and stroll into the bushes while one of the screws is having a glass of 
water at the truck or when a couple of them get too involved in arguing over yards 
passing or rushing on the old Boston Patriots. 
In 1969, the Inside-Outers were picking potatoes in Sabbatus. It was the third of 
November and the work was almost done. There was a guard named Henry Pugh-and he 
is no longer a member of our happy little family, believe me -sitting on the back bumper 
of one of the potato trucks and having his lunch with his carbine across his knees when a 
beautiful (or so it was told to me, but sometimes these things get exaggerated) ten-point 
buck strolled out of the cold early afternoon mist Pugh went after it with visions of just 
how that trophy would look mounted in his rec room, and while he was doing it, three of 
his charges just walked away. Two were recaptured in a Lisbon Falls pinball parlor. The 
third has not been found to this day. 
I suppose the most famous case of all was that of Sid Nedeau. This goes back to 
1958, and I guess it will never be topped. Sid was out lining the ball-field for a Saturday 
intramural baseball game when the three o
s a lot of back-slapping and bullyragging, 
comparison of league bowling scores and the usual number of tired old ethnic jokes. 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
53 
Sid just trundled his lining machine right out through the gate, leaving a three-inch 
baseline all the way from third base in the exercise yard to the ditch on the far side of 
Route 6, where they found the machine overturned in a pile of lime. Don
s great escape, and when we heard about that airline 
hijacking for ransom, the one where the guy parachuted from the back door of the 
airplane, Andy swore up and down that D B Cooper
And 
he probably had a pocketful of baseline lime in his pocket for good luck,
That lucky son of a bitch.
s Guide to Fun and Adventure. 
Beaver got it built without being discovered, or so the story goes, only to discover there 
was no door from the basement big enough to get the damned thing out When Henley 
told that story, you could bust a gut laughing, and he knew a dozen-no, two dozen -just as 
funny. 
When it came to detailing Shawshank bust-outs, Henley had it down chapter and 
verse. He told me once that during his time there had been better than four hundred 
escape attempts that he knew of. Really think about that for a moment before you just 
nod your head and read on. Four hundred escape attempts! That comes out to 12.9 escape 
attempts for every year Henley Backus was in Shawshank and keeping track of them. The 
Escape Attempt of the Month Club. Of course most of them were pretty slipshod affairs, 
the sort of thing that ends up with a guard grabbing some poor, sidling slob
re going, you happy asshole?" 
Henley said he
 of 1937, the year before I arrived at the Shank. The new administration 
54 
Stephen King 
wing was under construction then and fourteen cons got out, using construction 
equipment in a poorly locked shed. The whole of southern Maine got into a panic over 
those fourteen “hardened criminals
s headlight-pinned to 
the highway with a big truck bearing down on it. Not one of those fourteen got away. 
Two of them were shot dead-by civilians, not police officers or prison personnel -but 
none got away. 
How many had gotten away between 1938, when I came here, and that day in 
October when Andy first mentioned Zihuatanejo to me? Putting my information and 
Henley
d say ten. Ten that got away clean. And although it isn
s freedom and teach him to live in a cell, he seems to lose his 
ability to think in dimensions. He
s just 
out will pull some dumb job that hasn
ll get him back inside. Back where he understands how things work. 
Andy wasn
t have bet money on his chances of 
succeeding. Warden Norton, you see, was watching Andy with a special close eye. Andy 
wasn
s possible that you could buy enough look-the-other-way to 
make a break. I
t the man who could do it Because, as I
 worth of honest shuteye a night Buxton was less 
than thirty miles from Shawshank. So near and yet so far. 
I still thought his best chance was to engage a lawyer and try for the retrial. Anything 
to get out from under Norton's thumb. Maybe Tommy Williams could be shut up by 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
55 
nothing more than a cushy furlough program, but I wasn't entirely sure. Maybe a good 
old Mississippi hardass lawyer could crack him... and maybe that lawyer wouldn't even 
have to work that hard. Williams had honestly liked Andy. Every now and then I'd bring 
these points up to Andy, who would only smile, his eyes far away, and say he was 
thinking about it. 
Apparently he'd been thinking about a lot of other things, as well. 
In 1975, Andy Dufresne escaped from Shawshank. He hasn't been recaptured, and I 
don't think he ever will be. In fact, I don't think Andy Dufresne even exists anymore. But 
I 
think there's a man down in Zihuatanejo, Mexico named Peter Stevens. Probably 
running a very new small hotel in this year of our Lord 1977. 
I'll tell you what I know and what I think; that's about all I can do, isn't it? 
On 12 March 1975, the cell doors in Cellblock 5 opened at 6.30 a. m., as they do 
every morning around here except Sunday. And as they do every day except Sunday, the 
inmates of those cells stepped forward into the corridor and formed two lines as the cell 
doors slammed shut behind them. They walked up to the main cellblock gate, where they 
were counted off by two guards before being sent on down to the cafeteria for a breakfast 
of oatmeal, scrambled eggs, and fatty bacon. 
All of this went according to routine until the count at the cellblock gate. There 
should have been twenty-nine. Instead, there were twenty-eight. After a call to the 
Captain of the Guards, Cellblock 5 was allowed to go to breakfast. 
The Captain of the Guards, a not half-bad fellow named Richard Gonyar, and his 
assistant, a jolly prick named Dave Burkes, came down to Cellblock 5 right away. 
Gonyar reopened the cell doors and he and Burkes went down the corridor together, 
dragging their sticks over the bars, their guns out. In a case like that what you usually 
have is someone who has been taken sick in the night, so sick he can't even step out of his 
cell in the morning. More rarely, someone has died... or committed suicide. 
But this time, they found a mystery instead of a sick man or a dead man. They found 
no man at all. There were fourteen cells in Cellblock 5, seven to a side, all fairly neat
restriction of visiting privileges is the penalty for a sloppy cell at Shawshank-and all very 
empty. 
Gonyar's first assumption was that there had been a miscount or a practical joke. So 
instead of going off to work after breakfast, the inmates of Cellblock 5 were sent back to 
their cells, joking and happy. Any break in the routine was always welcome. 
Cell doors opened; prisoners stepped in; cell doors closed. Some clown shouting, “I 
want my lawyer, I want my lawyer, you guys run this place just like a frigging prison.
shut up in there, or I
 
56 
Stephen King 
The clown: “I ranked your wife, Burkie,
shut up, all of you, or you
 
He and Burkes went up the line again, counting noses. They didn't have to go far. 

 Gonyar asked the right-side night guard. 

 the right-side answered, and that was all it took. Everything 
stopped being routine right then. The balloon went up. 
In all the prison movies I've seen, this wailing horn goes off when there's been a 
break. 
That never happens at Shawshank. The first thing Gonyar did was to get in touch with 
the warden. The second thing was to get a search of the prison going. The third was to 
alert the State Police in Scarborough to the possibility of a breakout That was the routine. 
It didn't call for them to search the suspected escapee's cell, and so no one did. Not then. 
Why would they? It was a case of what you see is what you get. It was a small square 
room, bars on the window and bars on the sliding door. There was a toilet and an empty 
cot. Some pretty rocks on the windowsill. 
And the poster, of course. It was Linda Ronstadt by then. The poster was right over 
his bunk. There had been a poster there, in that exact same place, for twenty-six years. 
And when someone-it was Warden Norton himself, as it turned out, poetic justice if there 
ever was any-looked behind it, they got one hell of a shock. 
But that didn't happen until 6.30 that night, almost twelve hours after Andy had been 
reported missing, probably twenty hours after he had actually made his escape. 
Norton hit the roof. 
I have it on good authority-Chester, the trustee, who was waxing the hall floor in the 
Admin Wing that day. He didn't have to polish any keyplates with his ear that day; he 
said you could hear the warden clear down to Records & Files as he chewed on Rich 
Gonyar's ass. 

re 
s not on the prison grounds"? What does that 
mean? It means you didn
 
Gonyar said something. 

t happen on your shift? That
clock this afternoon, or some heads are going to roll. I can promise you that, and I 
always keep my promises." 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
57 
Something else from Gonyar, something that seemed to provoke Norton to even 
greater rage. 
"No? Then look at this! Look at this! You recognize it? Last night
 
But at six that evening Andy was still among the missing, Norton himself stormed 
down to Cellblock 5, where the rest of us had been locked up all of that day. Had we been 
questioned? We had spent most of that long day being questioned by harried screws who 
were feeling the breath of the dragon on the backs of their necks. We all said the same 
thing: we had seen nothing, heard nothing. And so far as I know, we were all telling the 
truth. I know that I was. All we could say was that Andy had indeed been in his cell at the 
time of the lock-in, and at lights-out an hour later. 
One wit suggested that Andy had poured himself out through the keyhole. The 
suggestion earned the guy four days in solitary. They were uptight. 
So Norton came down-stalked down-glaring at us with blue eyes nearly hot enough to 
strike sparks from the tempered steel bars of our cages. He looked at us as if he believed 
we were all in on it. Probably he did believe it. 
He went into Andy's cell and looked around. It was just as Andy had left it, the sheets 
of his bunk turned back but without looking slept-in. Rocks on the windowsill... but not 
all of them. The ones he liked best he took with him. 

 Norton hissed, and swept them off the window-ledge with a clatter. Gonyar, 
already four hours overtime, winced but said nothing. 
Norton's eyes fell on the Linda Ronstadt poster. Linda was looking back over her 
shoulder, her hands tucked into the back pockets of a very tight pair of fawn-colored 
slacks. She was wearing a halter and she had a deep California tan. It must have offended 
the hell out of Norton's Baptist sensibilities, that poster. Watching him glare at it, I 
remembered what Andy had once said about feeling he could almost step through the 
picture and be with the girl. 
In a very real way, that was exactly what he did-as Norton was only seconds from 
discovering. 

 he grunted, and ripped the poster from the wall with a single swipe 
of his hand. 
And revealed the gaping, crumbled hole in the concrete behind it. Gonyar wouldn't go 
in. 
58 
Stephen King 
Norton ordered him-God, they must have heard Norton ordering Rich Gonyar to go in 
there all over the prison-and Gonyar just refused him, point-blank. 

ll have your job for this!" Norton screamed. He was as hysterical as a woman 
having a hot-flash. He had utterly blown his cool. His neck had turned a rich, dark red, 
and two veins stood out, throbbing, on his forehead. “You can count on it, you... you 
Frenchman! 
I
ll see to it that you never get another one in any prison system 
in New England!" 
Gonyar silently held out his service pistol to Norton, butt first. He
d just had enough. It was as if Andy
t know what that private irrationality might have been, of course. But I do know 
that there were twenty-eight cons listening to Norton
the breaking strain". 
And by God, it almost seemed to me that somewhere I could heard Andy Dufresne 
laughing. 
Norton finally got a skinny drink, of water on the night shift to go into that hole that 
had been behind Andy
s name was Rory 
Tremont, and he was not exactly a ball of fire in the brains department. Maybe he thought 
he was going to win a Bronze Star or something. As it turned out, it was fortunate that 
Norton got someone of Andy
s voice came out of the hole, sounding hollow and dead. "Something smells 
awful in here, Warden." 
"Never mind that! Keep going." 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
59 
Tremont
Warden, it smells pretty damn bad.
Never mind, I said!
s voice floated back: 
s what it is, 
it
m gonna blow my groceries oh shit it
t help myself. The whole day-hell no, the last thirty 
years-all came up on me at once and I started laughing fit to split, a laugh such as I
t it feel good! 
"Get that man out of here!" Warden Norton was screaming, and I was laughing so 
hard I didn
t have stopped if Norton had threatened to shoot 
me dead-bang on the spot. "Get him OUT!" 
Well, friends and neighbors, I was the one who went Straight down to solitary, and 
there I stayed for fifteen days. A long shot. But every now and then I
s shit, and then I
d just have to laugh. I 
did that fifteen days in solitary practically standing on my head Maybe because half of 
me was with Andy Dufresne, Andy Dufresne who had waded in shit and came out clean 
on the other side, Andy Dufresne, headed for the Pacific. 
I heard the rest of what went on that night from half a dozen sources. There wasn
t have much left to lose 
after he
s 
rock-hammer. 
Andy had gotten free, but it hadn
t go in, and so far as I know, no one else did, either. It must 
60 
Stephen King 
have been damn near unspeakable. A rat jumped out of the pipe as Tremont was 
examining the hole and the rock-hammer, and he swore later that it was nearly as big as a 
cocker spaniel pup. He went back up the crawlspace to Andy
t imagine or 
don
ve had a chance to grow bold in the 
dark. He must have had just enough clearance at the shoulders to keep moving, and he 
probably had to shove himself through the places where the lengths of pipe were joined. 
If it had been me, the claustrophobia would have driven me mad a dozen times over. 
But he did it At the far end of the pipe they found a set of muddy footprints leading out of 
the sluggish, polluted creek the pipe fed into. Two miles from there a search party found 
his prison uniform-that was a day later. 
The story broke big in the papers, as you might guess, but no one within a fifteen
mile radius of the prison stepped forward to report a stolen car, stolen clothes, or a naked 
man in the moonlight There was not so much as a barking dog in a farmyard. He came 
out of the sewer pipe and he disappeared like smoke. 
But I am betting he disappeared in the direction of Buxton. 
Three months after that memorable day, Warden Norton resigned. He was a broken 
man, it gives me great pleasure to report. The spring was gone from his step. On his last 
day he shuffled out with his head down like an old con shuffling down to the infirmary 
for his codeine pills. It was Gonyar who took over, and to Norton that must have seemed 
like the unkindest cut of all. For all I know, Sam Norton is down there in Eliot now, 
attending services at the Baptist church every Sunday, and wondering how the hell Andy 
Dufresne ever could have gotten the better of him. 
I could have told him; the answer to the question is simplicity itself. Some have got it, 
Sam. And some don
s what I know; now I
d be willing to bet my watch and chain that I
s only one or two ways that it could have been. And every now and then, when I 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
61 
think it out, I think of Normaden, that half-crazy Indian. "Nice fella," Normaden had said 
after celling with Andy for six or eight months. "I was glad to go, me. All the time cold. 
He don
s okay. Nice man, never make fun. But big 
draught. "Poor crazy Normaden. He knew more than all the rest of us, and he knew it 
sooner. And it was eight long months before Andy could get him out of there and have 
the cell to himself again. If it hadn
d never want someone else to know 
that he had feet of clay and wanted a woman... even if it was only a fantasy-woman. But I 
think now that I was wrong. I think now that Andy
t even been born when that photo of Rita Hayworth was taken? 
Andy Dufresne
t take any of that away 
from him. But there were two other elements in the equation: a lot of luck, and WPA 
concrete. 
You don
t think of cement and concrete as "technological developments", the way 
we think of cars and oil furnaces and rocket-ships, but they really are. There was no 
modern cement until 1870 or so, and no modern concrete until after the turn of the 
century. Mixing concrete is as delicate a business as making bread. You can get it too 
watery or not watery enough. You can get the sand-mix too thick or too thin, and the 
same is true of the gravel-mix. And back in 1934, the science of mixing the stuff was a 
lot less sophisticated than it is today. 
The walls of Cellblock 5 were solid enough, but they weren
s a man who graduated from 
the University of Maine
s also a man who took two or three 
geology courses along the way. Geology had, in fact, become his chief hobby. I imagine 
62 
Stephen King 
it appealed to his patient, meticulous nature. A ten-thousand-year ice age here. A million 
years of mountain-building there. Tectonic plates grinding against each other deep under 
the earth
s nothing else to look at. 
First-timers usually had a hard time adjusting to the confinement of prison life. They 
get screw-fever, they have to be hauled down to the infirmary and sedated couple of 
times before they get on the beam. It
 
Andy didn't flip out like that when he came to the Shank in 1948, but that's not to say 
that he didn't feel many of same things. He may have come close to madness; some and 
some go sailing right over the edge. Old life blown away in the wink of an eye, 
indeterminate nightmare stretching out ahead, a long season in hell. 
So what did he do, I ask you? He searched almost desperately for something to divert 
his restless mind. Oh. There are all sorts of ways to divert yourself, even in prison; it 
seems like the human mind is full of an infinite number of possibilities when it comes to 
diversion. I told you about the sculptor and his Three Ages of Jesus. There were coin 
collectors who were always losing their collections to thieves, stamp collectors, one 
fellow who had postcards from thirty-five different countries-and let me tell you, he 
would have turned out your lights if he'd caught you diddling with his postcards. 
Andy got interested in rocks. And the walls of his cell. 
I think that his initial intention might have been to do no more than to carve his 
initials into the wall where the poster of Rita Hayworth would soon be hanging. His 
initials, or maybe a few lines from some poem. Instead, what he found was that 
interestingly weak concrete. Maybe he started to carve his initials and a big chunk of the 
wall fell out I can see him, lying there on his bunk, looking at that broken chunk of 
concrete, turning it over in his hands. Never mind the wreck of your whole life, never 
mind that you got railroaded into this place by a whole trainload of bad luck. Let's forget 
all that and look at this piece of concrete. Some months further along he might have 
decided it would be fun to see how much of that wall he could take out. But you can't just 
start digging into your wall and then, when the weekly inspection (or one of the surprise 
inspections that are always turning up interesting caches of booze, drugs, dirty pictures, 
and weapons) comes around, say to the guard: This? Just excavating a little hole in my 
cell wall. Not to worry, my good man.
t have that. So he came to me and asked if I could get him a Rita 
Hayworth poster. Not a little one but a big one. 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
63 
And, of course, he had the rock-hammer. I remember thinking when I got him that 
gadget back in"48 that it would take a man six hundred years to burrow through the wall 
with it. True enough. But Andy went right through the wall -even with the soft concrete, 
it took him two rock-hammers and twenty-seven years to hack a hole big enough to get 
his slim body through four feet of it Of course he lost most of one of those years to 
Normaden, and he could only work at night, preferably late at night, when almost 
everybody is asleep-including the guards who work the night shift. But I suspect the thing 
which slowed him down the most was getting rid of the wall as he took it out He could 
muffle the sound of his work by wrapping the head of his hammer in rock-polishing 
cloths, but what to do with the pulverized concrete and the occasional chunks that came 
out whole? I think he must have broken up the chunks into pebbles and... 
I 
remembered the Sunday after I had gotten him the rock-hammer. I remember 
watching him walk across the exercise yard, his face puffy from his latest go-round with 
the sisters. I saw him stoop, pick up a pebble... and it disappeared up his sleeve. That 
inside sleeve-pocket is an old prison trick. Up your sleeve or just inside the cuff of your 
pants. And I have another memory, very strong but unfocused, maybe something I saw 
more than once. This memory is of Andy Dufresne walking across the exercise yard on a 
hot summer day when the air was utterly still. Still, yeah... except for the little breeze that 
seemed to be blowing sand around Andy Dufresne
d come out thirty feet over the exercise yard. But like I say, I don
m only making a foot of progress every seven years or so; therefore, it would 
take me seventy years to break through; that would make me one hundred and seven 
years old. 
Here
t 
go on for long. Sooner or later, some screw was going to peek behind Rita Hayworth just 
to make sure Andy didn
s exactly what he did get by on. 
Or maybe he had something more than dumb luck going for him even back then. He 
had money, and he might have been slipping someone a little squeeze every week to take 
it easy on him. Most guards will go along with that if the price is right; it
s the 
crazies and the stampeders that get their cells turned upside-down at least once every six 
months, their mattresses unzipped, their pillows taken away and cut open, the outflow 
pipe from their toilets carefully probed. 
Then, in 1950, Andy became something more than a model prisoner. In 1950, he 
became a valuable commodity, a murderer who did tax returns as well as H & R Block. 
He gave gratis estate-planning advice, set up tax-shelters, filled out loan applications 
(sometimes creatively). I can remember him sitting behind his desk in the library, 
patiently going over a car-loan agreement paragraph by paragraph with a screw head who 
wanted to buy a used DeSoto, telling the guy what was good about the agreement and 
what was bad about it, explaining to him that it was possible to shop for a loan and not 
get hit quite so bad, steering him away from the finance companies which in those days 
were sometimes little better than legal loan-sharks. When he
d forgotten for a 
moment, you see, that he was dealing with a mascot, not a man. 
Andy kept up on the tax laws and the changes in the stock market, and so his 
usefulness didn
d been in cold storage for a while, as it might have done. He 
began to get his library money, his running war with the sisters had ended, and nobody 
tossed his cell very hard. He was a good nigger. 
Then one day, very late in the going-perhaps around October of 1967-the long-time 
hobby suddenly turned into something else. One night while he was in the hole up to his 
waist with Raquel Welch hanging down over his ass, the pick end of his rock-hammer 
must have suddenly sunk into concrete past the hilt. 
He would have dragged some chunks of concrete back, but maybe he heard others 
falling down into that shaft, bouncing back and forth, clinking off that standpipe. Did he 
know by then that he was going to come upon that shaft, or was he totally surprised? I 
don
t have 
known for sure, but he must have had a pretty good idea because it was right around then 
that he talked to me about Zihuatanejo for the first time. All of a sudden, instead of just 
being a toy, that stupid hole in the wall became his master-if he knew about the sewer
pipe at the bottom, and that it led under the outer wall, it did, anyway. 
He
t have that many to stack... and the gods had been 
kind to him for a very long time; some eighteen years. 
The most ghastly irony I can think of would have been if he had been offered a 
parole. Can you imagine it? Three days before the parolee is actually released, he is 
transferred into the light security wing to undergo a complete physical and a battery of 
vocational tests. While he
t escape until 1975? I don’t 
know for sure-but I can advance some pretty good guesses. First, he would have become 
more careful than ever. He was too smart to just push ahead at flank speed and try to get 
out in eight months, or even in eighteen. He must have gone on widening the opening on 
the crawlspace a little at a time. A hole as big as a teacup by the time he took his New 
Year
t dare do that. 
He might have decided that the noise would arouse someone
d guess that, by the time Nixon was sworn in for his second term, the 
hole would have been wide enough for him to wriggle through... and probably sooner 
than that Andy was a small guy. Why didn
s where my educated guesses run out, folks; from this point they become 
progressively wilder. One possibility is that the crawlspace itself was clogged with crap 
and he had to clear it out But that wouldn
ve told you as well as I can how it is to be an institutional man. At first you can
re at work in the laundry or the plate-shop, you
s the only time I 
ever felt the need to take a piss or have a crap: twenty-five minutes past the hour. And if 
for some reason I couldn
d ever get? The blueprints might have told him how big the 
pipe
t tell him what it would be like inside that pipe-if 
he would be able to breathe without choking, if the rats were big enough and mean 
enough to fight instead of retreating... and a blueprint couldn
ve told him what he
s a joke even funnier than the parole 
would have been: Andy breaks into the sewer line, crawls through five hundred yards of 
choking, shit-smelling darkness, and comes up against a heavy-gauge mesh screen at the 
end of it all. Ha, ha, very funny. 
That would have been on his mind. And if the long shot actually came in and he was 
able to get out, would he be able to get some civilian clothes and get away from the 
vicinity of the prison undetected? Last of all, suppose he got out of the pipe, got away 
from Shawshank before the alarm was raised, got to Buxton, overturned the right rock... 
and found nothing beneath? Not necessarily something so dramatic as arriving at the right 
field and discovering that a high-rise apartment building had been erected on the spot, or 
that it had turned into a supermarket parking lot. It could have been that some little kid 
who liked rocks noticed that piece of volcanic glass, turned it over, saw the deposit-box 
key, and took both it and the rock back to his room as souvenirs. Maybe a November 
hunter kicked the rock, left the key exposed, and a squirrel or a crow with a liking for 
bright shiny things had taken it away. Maybe there had been spring floods one year, 
breaching the wall, washing the key away. Maybe anything. 
So I think-wild guess or not-that Andy just froze in place for a while. After all, you 
can
t bet. What did he have to lose, you ask? His library, for one thing. 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
67 
The poison peace of institutional life, for another. Any future chance to grab his safe 
identity. But he finally did it, just as I have told you. He tried... and, my! Didn
t describe that scene for you, because this institutional man is still in this 
institution, and expects to be for years to come. 
But I
re all going to die someday. 
McNary was where he crossed. McNary, Texas. 
So that
ve used three pencils right down to knuckle-stubs, 
and a whole tablet of paper. I
t writing about yourself, I hear someone in the peanut-gallery saying. 
You were writing about Andy Dufresne. You
s just not so. It
s just that Andy had more of that part than me, and used 
it better. 
There are others here like me, others who remember Andy. We
s gone, but 
a little sad, too. Some birds are not meant to be caged, that
s the story and I
re really down there, as I believe you are, look at the stars for me just after sunset, 
and touch the sand, and wade in the water, and feel free. 
I never expected to take up this narrative again, but here I am with the dog-eared, 
folded pages open on the desk in front of me. Here I am adding another three or four 
pages, writing in a brand-new tablet. A tablet I bought in a store- I just walked into a 
store on Portland
s late June of 1977 and I am sitting in a small, cheap room of the 
Brewster Hotel in Portland, adding to it The window is open, and the sound of the traffic 
floating in seems huge, exciting, and intimidating. I have to look constantly over at the 
window and reassure myself that there are no bars on it I sleep poorly at night because 
the bed in this room, as cheap as the room is, seems much too big and luxurious. I snap 
awake every morning promptly at six-thirty, feeling disorientated and frightened. My 
dreams are bad. I have a crazy feeling of free fall. The sensation is as terrifying as it is 
exhilarating. 
What has happened in my life? Can
. And beyond containing 
enough dynamite to assure me of a quick turnaround and another six or eight years inside, 
my 'memoirs
t 
want my freedom-or my unwillingness to give up the story I
, as they call it at the Shank, I would have gone back in on turnaround... 
but the cops would have been looking for Andy in a Peruvian seacoast town named Las 
Intrudres. 
The Parole Committee got me a job as a 
 at the big FoodWay 
Market at the Spruce Mall in South Portland-which means I became just one more ageing 
bag-boy. There's only two kinds of bag-boys, you know; the old ones and the young ones. 
No one ever looks at either kind. If you shop at the Spruce Mall FoodWay, I may have 
even taken your groceries out to your car... but you'd have had to have shopped there 
between March and April of 1977, because that's as long as I worked there. At first I 
didn't think I was going to be able to make it on the outside at all. I've described prison 
society as a scaled-down model of your outside world, but I had no idea of how fast 
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption 
69 
things moved on the outside; the raw speed people move at. They even talk faster. And 
louder. 
It was the toughest adjustment I've ever had to make, and I haven't finished making it 
yet... not by a long way. Women, for instance. After hardly knowing that they were half 
of the human race for forty years, I was suddenly working in a store filled with them. Old 
women, pregnant women wearing T-shirts with arrows pointing downward and the 
printed motto reading BABY HERE, skinny women with their nipples poking out of their 
shirts- a woman wearing something like that when I went in would have gotten arrested 
and then had a sanity hearing-women of every shape and size. I found myself going 
around with a semi-hard almost all the time and cursing myself for being a dirty old man. 
Going to the bathroom, that was another thing. When I had to go (and the urge always 
came on me at twenty-five past the hour), I had to fight the almost overwhelming need to 
check it with my boss. Knowing that was something I could just go and do in this too
bright outside world was one thing; adjusting my inner self to that knowledge after all 
those years of checking it with the nearest screw head or facing two days in solitary for 
the oversight... that was something else. 
My boss didn't like me. He was a young guy, twenty-six or -seven, and I could see 
that I sort of disgusted him, the way a cringing, servile old dog that crawls up to you on 
its belly to be petted will disgust a man. Christ, I disgusted myself. But... I couldn't make 
myself stop. I wanted to tell him, That's what a whole life in prison does for you, young 
man. It turns everyone in a position of authority into a master, and you into every 
master's dog. Maybe you know you've become a dog, even in prison, but since everyone 
else in grey is a dog, too, it doesn't seem to matter so much. Outside, it does. But I 
couldn't tell a young guy like him. He would never understand. Neither would my P. O., a 
big, bluff ex-Navy man with a huge red beard and a large stock of Polish jokes. He saw 
me for about five minutes every week. 
d ask 
when he
d say yeah, and that would be the end of it until next 
week. 
Music on the radio. When I went in, the big bands were just getting up a good head of 
steam. Now every song sounds like it
re on 
parole, almost anything will serve. I
d drop the 
idea again. Oh, you can say he had more reason to be free than I did-he had a new 
identity and a lot of money. But that
t know 
for sure that the new identity was still there, and without the new identity, the money 
70 
Stephen King 
would always be out of reach. No, what he needed was just to be free, and if I kicked 
away what I had, it would be like spitting in the face of everything he had worked so hard 
to win back. So what I started to do on my time off was to hitchhike a ride down to the 
little town of Buxton. This was in the early April of 1977, the snow just starting to melt 
off the fields, the air just beginning to be warm, the baseball teams coming north to start a 
new season playing the only game I
s a big hayfield in Buxton, Andy had said, and at the north end of that hayfield 
there
s errand, you 
say. How many hayfields are there in a small rural town like Buxton? Fifty? A hundred? 
Speaking from personal experience, I
d agree with you. A fool
ve said, they
s errand... but so is chipping at a blank concrete wall for twenty-eight 
years. And when you
s nice to have a hobby to take your mind off your new life. My hobby was looking for 
Andy
d hitchhike to Buxton and walk the roads. I
ll not forget even if I live another fifty-eight years. It was 
a balmy Saturday afternoon, and I was walking up what a little boy fishing from a bridge 
told me was called The Old Smith Road. I had taken a lunch in a brown FoodWay bag, 
and had eaten it sitting on a rock by the road. When I was done I carefully buried my 
leavings, as my dad had taught me before he died, when I was a sprat no older than the 
fisherman who had named the road for me. 
Around two o
t pick it up because I thought there would be anything under it; I could just as 
easily have walked away without finding what was beneath. I certainly had no plans to 
take it away with me, because I didn
s clear script. I took 
the envelope and left the rock where Andy had left it, and Andy
re reading this, then you
re out. And If you
t you? I could use a good man to help me get my 
project on wheels. 
Meantime, have a drink on me-and do think it over. I will be keeping an eye out for 
you. 
Remember that hope is a good thing, Red, maybe the best of things, and no good 
thing ever dies. I will be hoping that this letter finds you, and finds you well. 
Your friend, Peter Stevens 
I didn
s dinners drifting 
up the stairwell to me-Beefaroni, Ricearoni, Noodleroni. You can bet that whatever the 
old folks of America, the ones on fixed incomes, are eating tonight, it almost certainly 
ends in roni. 
I opened the envelope and read the letter and then I put my head in my arms and 
cried. 
With the letter there were twenty new fifty-dollar bills. 
72 
Stephen King 
And here I am in the Brewster Hotel, technically a fugitive from justice again-parole 
violation is my crime. No one
s bag 
that holds everything I own. I have nineteen fifties, four tens, a five, three ones, and 
assorted change. I broke one of the fifties to buy this tablet of paper and a deck of 
smokes. 
Wondering what I should do. 
But there
m going to put this manuscript back in my bag. Then I
m going to walk 
uptown to a bar and put that five dollar bill down in front of the bartender and ask him to 
bring me two straight shots of Jack Daniels-one for me and one for Andy Dufresne. 
Other than a beer or two, they
ve taken as a free man since 1938. 
Then I am going to tip the bartender a dollar and thank him kindly. I will leave the 
bar and walk up Spring Street to the Greyhound terminal there and buy a bus ticket to El 
Paso by way of New York City. When I get to El Paso, I
