It’s only every nine years.
They say in the old days it was every year, at midsummer.
Ask Mister Bromios. He’ll know.
Stop them! In the name of Heaven! Stop them!
They’re going out the back to fight over me!
Why, whatever has he done to
 you, my sweet?
I do so wish Mister Thorn would make up his mind to propose. I
 am sure Papa would not be averse to it.
Indeed, I am sure that he would not,
Tomorrow, tomorrow. No one’s coming through today, good sirs.
furriners.
D’you like treacle pudden’?
Mutanabbi was called away, and there’s
 more pudden’ here than a man can manage on his own.
Well then,
help yourself.
Now, young ‘un,
it’d
 seem the inn has no more rooms; also that every room in the village has
 already been let.
Is that so?
That it is,
And what I was wondering was, would you
 know of a house that might have a room?
All the rooms have gone by now,
I
 remember that when I was a boy of nine, my mother and my father sent me to
 sleep out in the rafters of the cow byre for a week, and let my room to a lady
 from the Orient, and her family and servants. She left me a kite, as a thank
 you, and I flew it from the meadow until one day it snapped its string and
 flew away into the sky.
Where do you live now?
I have a cottage on the edge of my father’s land,
It was
 our shepherd’s cottage, until he died, two years ago last lammas-tide, and my
 parents gave it to me.
Take me to it,
I like this well
 enough,
Come, Dunstan Thorn, I’ll rent it from you for the next
 three days.
What’ll you give me for it?
A golden sovereign, a silver sixpence, a copper penny, and a fresh shiny
 farthing,
If you’re here for the market,
then it’s miracles and wonders you’ll be trading.
So, it would be miracles and wonders that you
 would be after, is it?
Oh, very well,
a miracle, a
 wonder. Tomorrow, you shall attain your Heart’s Desire. Now, here is your
 money,
Sorry,
That is to say, ‘scuse me.
Who’s that? Who’s
there?
Just me,
I’m here for the market. I
 was sleeping in a hollow tree for the night, but the lightnin’ toppled it,
 cracked it like an egg it did and smashed it like a twig, and the rain got down
 my neck, and it threatened to get into my baggage, and there’s things in there
 must be kept dry as dust, and I’d kept it safe as houses on all my travelings
 here, though it was wet as ...
Water?
Ever-so,
So I was wonderin’,
if you’d mind me stayin’ here under your roof as I’m not very
 big, and I’d not disturb you or nothing.
Just don’t tread on me,
I hope I’m not disturbin’ you,
You aren’t,
That’s good,
because I wouldn’t want
 to disturb you.
Please,
let me sleep. Please.
We’re not to let anyone through until midday,
Ah. My landlord. And how are you today, sir?
Very well,
Walk with me,
Let us walk together.
Have you been here before?
I went to the last market, nine years ago. I was only a boy,
Well,
remember to be polite, and take no gifts.
 Remember that you’re a guest. And now, I shall give you the last part of the
 rent that I owe you. For I swore an oath. And my gifts last a long time. You
 and your firstborn child and his or her firstborn child... It’s a gift that will last
 as long as I live.
And what would that be, sir?
Your Heart’s Desire, remember,
Your
 Heart’s Desire.
Eyes, eyes! New eyes for old!
Instruments of music from a hundred lands!
Penny whistles! Tuppenny
 hums! Threepenny choral anthems!
Try your luck! Step right up! Answer a simple riddle and win a wind
flower!
Everlasting lavender! Bluebell cloth!
Bottled dreams, a shilling a
 bottle!
Coats of night! Coats of twilight! Coats of dusk!
Swords of
 fortune! Wands of power! Rings of eternity! Cards of grace! Roll-up, roll-up,
 step this way!
Salves and ointments, philtres and nostrums!
Hello?
Good morrow to you, on this Market Day,
It’s very lovely,
How much is it?
The cost is never discussed at the outset,
It might be a
 great deal more than you are prepared to pay; and then you would leave, and
 we would both be the poorer for it. Let us discuss the merchandise in a more
 general way.
There,
My debt to you is
 settled, and my rent is paid in full.
So where do these flowers come from?
And of what purpose are they?
The use and function of these flowers is chiefly decorative and
 recreational; they bring pleasure; they can be given to a loved one as a token
 of admiration and affection, and the sound they make is pleasing to the ear.
 Also, they catch the light most delightfully.
I see,
They are also used in certain spells and cantrips. If sir is a magician... ?
Ah. Even so, they are delightful things,
The chain? It binds me to the stall. I am the personal slave of the witch
woman who owns the stall. She caught me many years ago—as I played by
 the waterfalls in my father’s lands, high in the mountains—luring me on and
 on in the form of a pretty frog always but a moment out of my reach, until I
 had left my father’s lands, unwittingly, whereupon she resumed her true
 shape and popped me into a sack.
And you are her slave forever?
Not forever,
I gain my freedom on the
 day the moon loses her daughter, if that occurs in a week when two Mondays
 come together. I await it with patience. And in the meantime I do as I am bid,
 and also I dream. Will you buy a flower from me now, young master?
My name is Dunstan.
And an honest name it is, too,
Where are
 your pincers, Master Dunstan? Will you catch the devil by the nose?
And what is your name?
I no longer have a name. I am a slave, and the name I had was taken from
 me. I answer to ‘hey, you!’ or to ‘girl!’ or to ‘foolish slattern!’ or to many
 another imprecation.
Take
 enough for this,
We do not take money at this stall.
No? What will you take?
I could take the color of your hair,
or all of your memories
 before you were three years of age. I could take the hearing from your left ear
 —not all of it, just enough that you’d not enjoy music or appreciate the
 running of a river or the soughing of the wind.
Or a kiss from you. One kiss, here on my cheek.
That I’ll pay with goodwill!
There, now,
And I’ll see you
back here tonight, Dunstan Thorn, when the moon goes down. Come here
 and hoot like a little owl. Can you do that?
whatever is the matter?
I brought you a gift,
Hush, now! Look at his eyes. Can’t you see the poor boy’s dazed
 in his wits, dazed and confused? He’s bespelled, I’ll wager you. Hoy!
 Tommy Forester! Come here; take young Dunstan Thorn back to the village
 and keep an eye on him; let him sleep if he wishes, or talk if it’s talk he
 needs...
There, now, Daisy,
he’s just a little
 elf-touched, that’s all. No need to take on so.
But Mother, Dunstan kissed me
Now then, old fellow, buck
 up, that’s the ticket, let’s see a smile, eh? How’s about something to eat then?
 Or something to drink? No? My word, you do look queer, Dunstan, old
 fellow...
The Hill of Fire Has Moved to
 the Fastness of Dene!
The Squire of Garamond’s Only Heir is
 Transformed into a Grunting Pig-wiggin!
That,
is nothing like a little owl. A snowy
 owl it could be, a barn owl, even. If my ears were stopped up with twigs
 perhaps I’d imagine it an eagle-owl. But it’s not a little owl.
Do you think you are under a spell, pretty Dunstan?
I do not know.
You are under no spell, pretty boy, pretty boy.
Your stars,
What are they like?
What do you want from life?
I don’t know,
You, I think.
I want my freedom,
It was fashioned of cat’s breath and fish-scales and moonlight mixed in
 with the silver,
Unbreakable until the terms of the spell are
 concluded.
Oh.
I should not mind it, for it is a long, long chain; but the knowledge of it
 irks me, and I miss my father’s land. And the witch-woman is not the best of
 mistresses...
Why, you are crying.
Now, get along with you,
It is a blessing about the Forester boy,
That it is,
Have another scone, my dear. I expect your
 Daisy shall be a bridesmaid.
I trust she shall,
if she. should live so long.
Why, she is not ill, Mrs. Hempstock? Say
 it is not so.
She does not eat, Mrs. Thorn. She wastes away. She drinks a little water
 from time to time.
Oh, my!
Dunstan? He has not...
Oh, no,
nothing like that. He has ignored her. She has not seen him for days and
 days. She has taken it into her head that he no longer cares for her, and all she
 does is hold the snowdrop he gave her, and she sobs.
we’re a little concerned about Dunstan,
 Thorney and me. He’s been mooning. That’s the only word for it. His work
 isn’t getting done. Thorney was saying that he needs some settling down, that
 boy. If he’d but settle down, why Thorney was saying he’d settle all the
 Westward Meadows on the lad.
Hempstock would certainly not be
 averse to seeing our Daisy happy. Certain he’d settle a flock of our sheep on
 the girl.
She’ll be happier, over the wall. With her own kind.
 Don’t you fret now, lad.
baa
penny
 dreadful
Cherry Ripe
In My Father’s Garden.
I have spoken to Mister Brom-ios about this,
and he has no objection.
What Mister Bromios thinks or does not think,
is neither here nor there. That is a most improper
 occupation for a young lady.
They say that Mister Monday himself is counted amongst your admirers,
Mister Monday,
is five and forty
 years of age if he is a day.
Anyway,
he has already been
 married. I would not wish to marry someone who had already been married.
 It would be,
like having someone else break in one’s own
 pony.
Personally I would imagine that to be the sole advantage of marrying a
 widower,
That someone else would have removed
 the rough edges; broken him in, if you will. Also, I would imagine that by
 that age his lusts would long since have been sated, and abated, which would
 free one from a number of indignities.
Still,
it would be nice to live in the big
 house, and to have a coach and four, and to be able to travel to London for
 the season, and to Bath to take the waters, or to Brighton for the sea-bathing,
 even if Mister Monday is five and forty.
Good day, Miss Forester.
You’ll be having rice pudding, then, I would
 imagine, Miss Forester.
Yes, Tristran. We shall be having rice pudding.
Mother says that rice pudding in
 sufficient quantity will help to stave off chills and colds and other autumnal
 ailments.
My mother,
has always sworn by tapioca pudding.
We can deliver most of the provisions
 tomorrow morning, and the rest of it will come back with Mister Monday,
 early next week.
You know, Miss Forester, I get off in a few minutes,
Perhaps I could walk you a little way home. It’s not much out of my
 way.
Certainly.
Victoria,
Yes, Tristran,
Would you think it forward of me to kiss you?
Yes,
Very forward.
Ah,
Did you see that?
I saw nothing,
I was looking at you.
You are the most lovely woman in all the world,
Get along with you,
What did you see?
A falling star,
I believe they are not at all uncommon at
 this time of year.
Vicky,
Will you kiss me?
No,
You kissed me when we were younger. You kissed me beneath the
 pledge-Oak, on your fifteenth birthday. And you kissed me last May Day,
 behind your father’s cowshed.
I was another person then,
And I shall not kiss you, Tristran
 Thorn.
If you will not kiss me,
will you marry me?
Marry you?
And why ever should I marry
 you, Tristran Thorn? What could you give me?
Give you?
I would go to India for you, Victoria Forester, and
 bring you the tusks of elephants, and pearls as big as your thumb, and rubies
 the size of wren’s eggs.
 “I would go to Africa, and bring you diamonds the size of cricket balls. I
 would find the source of the Nile, and name it after you.
 “I would go to America—all the way to San Francisco, to the gold-fields,
 and I would not come back until I had your weight in gold. Then I would
 carry it back here, and lay it at your feet.
 “I would travel to the distant northlands did you but say the word, and slay
the mighty polar bears, and bring you back their hides.
I think you were doing quite well,
until you got
 to the bit about slaying polar bears. Be that as it may, little shop-boy and
 farm-boy, I shall not kiss you; neither shall I marry you.
I would travel to far Cathay for
 you, and bring you a huge junk I would capture from the king of the pirates,
 laden with jade and silk and opium.
 “I would go to Australia, at the bottom of the world,
and
 bring you. Um.
A kangaroo,
And opals,
And whatever would I do with a
 kangaroo?
Now, we should be getting along, or my father and
 mother will be wondering what has kept me, and they will leap to some
 entirely unjustified conclusions. For I have not kissed you, Tristran Thorn.
Kiss me,
There is nothing I would not do for your kiss, no
 mountain I would not scale, no river I would not ford, no desert I would not
 cross.
For a kiss, and the pledge of your hand,
I
 would bring you that fallen star.
Go on, then,
And if you do, I will.
What?
If you bring me that star,
the one that just fell, not another
 star, then I’ll kiss you. Who knows what else I might do. There: now you
 need not go to Australia, nor to Africa, nor to far Cathay.
What?
Do you mean it?
I mean it as much as you mean all your fancy words of rubies and gold
 and opium,
What is an opium?
Something in cough mixture,
Like eucalyptus.
It does not sound particularly romantic,
Anyway,
 should you not be running off to retrieve my fallen star? It fell to the East,
 over there.
Silly shop-boy. It is all you can do to
 ensure that we have the ingredients for rice pudding.
And if I brought you the fallen star?
What would
 you give me? A kiss? Your hand in marriage?
Anything you desire,
You swear it?
Of course,
Very well,
I shall leave you here, my lady,
For I have urgent
 business, to the East.
Look at the state of you!
Indeed! I never did!
Tristran?
Your mother spoke to you. Did you not hear her?
I beg your pardon, Father, Mother,
but I shall be leaving
 the village tonight. I may be gone for some time.
Foolishness and silliness!
I never heard such
 nonsense.
Let me talk to him,
Very well,
But who’s going to sew up the boy’s coat? That’s what I would
 like to know.
Where
 are you going?
East,
And will you be coming back?
Of course,
Well,
That’s all right, then.
Have you given any thought to getting through the wall?
I’m sure I can find a way,
If necessary,
 I’ll fight my way past the guards.
You’ll do no such thing,
How would you
 like it if it was you was on duty, or me? I’ll not see anyone hurt.
Go and pack a bag, and kiss your
 mother good-bye, and I’ll walk you down to the village.
Evening, Mister Bromios. Evening, Harold,
Evening, Mister Thorn,
Good evening, Dunstan,
I trust you are well.
Mister Bromios, Harold, I believe you both know
 my son Tristran?
I suppose you both know about where he came from,
Well, it’s true,
And now it’s time for him to go back.
There’s a star...
Very well,
Go on with you, boy. Go, and bring back your star, and may God and all
 His angels go with you.
shop
boy,
Father,
We are all here.
 What would you do with us?
I am dying. Soon my time will be done, and you will take my
 remains deep into the mountain, to the Hall of Ancestors, and you will place
 them—me—in the one-and-eightieth hollow you come to, which is to say, the
 first that is not occupied, and there you shall leave me. If you do not do this
 thing, you will each be cursed, and the tower of Stormhold shall tumble and
 fall.
Now. The matter of succession.
Primus. Go to the window.
What do you see?
Nothing, sire. I see the evening sky above us, and clouds below us.
Tertius. Go to the window. What do you see?
Nothing, Father. It is as Primus told you. The evening sky hangs above
 us, the color of a bruise, and clouds carpet the world beneath us, all grey and
 writhing.
Septimus. You. Window.
And you? What do you see?
I see a star, Father.
Ahh,
Bring me to the window.
To he who retrieves the stone, which is the Power of Storm-hold, I leave
 my blessing, and the Mastership of Stormhold and all its dominions,
And should we capture eagles, and harness them, to drag us into the
 heavens?
There,
I’ve
 half a mind,
to push the old bastard’s corpse out of the window.
 What was all that idiocy about?
Better not,
We don’t want to see Storm-hold tumble and
 fall. Nor do we want a curse on our heads, for that matter. Better just place
 him in the Hall of Ancestors.
We will tell the people he is dead,
What do you think he’s thinking?
He’s wondering where the stone fell, and how to reach it first,
I damned well hope so,
How big is Faerie?
Entrails?
Might as well.
Come quick!  Come quick!
What?
What is it?
Look,
At last,
About time,
Which of us, then, to find it?
I’ve a kidney.
I’ve his liver.
I’ve his
 heart,
How will you travel?
In our old chariot, drawn by what I find at the crossroads.
You’ll be needing some years.
Not much left,
Then it’s a good thing that we’ve found a new one, isn’t it?
My,
but this place is filthy.
Here we go,
When I return
 with her heart, there will be years aplenty for all of us,
A star,
A star,
Exactly,
The first in two hundred years. And I’ll bring it back to us.
A fallen star,
Ow,
Fuck,
Ow,
Can I Get There by Candlelight?
‘Scuse me,
but would you mind
 dreamin’ a bit quieter? Your dreams is spillin’ over into my dreams, and if
 there’s one thing I’ve never been doin’ with, it’s dates. William the Conker,
 ten sixty-six, that’s as far as I go, and I’d swap that for a dancing mouse.
Mm?
Keep it down,
If you don’t mind.
Sorry,
It’s mushrumps, fried in butter,
 with wild garlic.
Poor fare,
Country fare, it is. Nothing like the gentry are
 used to, but the likes of me treasures a fine mushrump.
That’s kind of you,
Kind of you, I’m
 sure. But you know, and / know, that it’s just fried field-mushrumps, and
 never a patch on nothing proper...
Is there any more?
Ah now, that’s manners for you,
Is there more? he says, as if it were
 poached quail’s eggs and smoked gazelle and truffles, not just a mushrump,
 what tastes more or less like something what’s been dead for a week and a cat
 wouldn’t touch. Manners.
I really, truly would like another mushroom,
if it’s not
too much trouble.
Look at you,
eatin’ those
 mushrumps as if you liked them, as if they wasn’t sawdust and wormwood
 and rue in your mouth.
You says that now,
but you’ll not be
 sayin’ that in an hour’s time. They’ll undoubtedly disagree with you, like the
 fishwife who disagreed with her young man over a mermaid. And that could
 be heard from Garamond to Stormhold. Such language! It fair turned my ears
 blue, it did.
Talkin’ about your
 guts,
I’m going to attend to mine behind that tree over there.
 Would you do me the signal honor of keepin’ an eye on that there pack of
 mine? I’d be obliged.
Of course,
There. I knowed a man in Paphlagonia who’d swallow a live snake
 every morning, when he got up. He used to say, he was certain of one thing,
 that nothing worse would happen to him all day. ‘Course they made him eat a
 bowlful of hairy centipedes before they hung him, so maybe that claim was a
 bit presumptive.
My name is Tristran Thorn,
Charmed,
I used to be confusticated,
but you know how these things
 go.
Hey!
 I say!
Slow down, can’t you?
Some-thin’ wrong?
I cannot keep up,
You walk so confoundedly fast.
Beg your puddin’,
Bein’ on me own so much, I gets used to settin’
 me own pace.
Kingfisher. Mr. Halcyon
 they used to call him. Pretty bird,
Purple hummingbird. Drinks nectar
 from flowers. Hovers,
Redcap. They’ll keep their distance, but don’t you
 go scrutinizin’ ‘em or looking for trouble, ‘cos you’ll find it with those
 buggers.
Suppose you tell me what you’re about?
I come from the
 village of Wall, where there lives a young lady named Victoria Forester, who
 is without peer among women, and it is to her, and to her alone, that I have
 given my heart. Her face is—
Usual complement of bits?
Eyes? Nose?
 Teeth? All the usual?
Of course.
Well then, you can skip that stuff,
We’ll take it
 all as said. So what damn-fool silly thing has this young lady got you a-doin’
 of?
What,
would possibly make you imagine that my lady-love would have sent me on
 some foolish errand?
Because that’s
 the only reason a lad like you would be stupid enough to cross the border into
 Faerie. The only ones who ever come here from your lands are the minstrels,
 and the lovers, and the mad. And you don’t look like much of a minstrel, and
 you’re—pardon me saying so, lad, but it’s true— ordinary as cheese-crumbs.
 So it’s love, if you ask me.
Because,
every lover is in his heart a madman, and
 in his head a minstrel.
Really?
I’d never noticed. So there’s
 some young lady. Has she sent you here to seek your fortune? That used to be
 very popular. You’d get young fellers wanderin’ all over, looking for the
 hoard of gold that some poor wyrm or ogre had taken absolute centuries to
 accumulate.
No. Not my fortune. It was more of a promise I made to this lady I
 mentioned. I... we were talking, and I was promising her things, and we saw
 this falling star, and I promised to bring it to her. And it fell...
... over there.
You know what I would do?
No,
what?
I’d tell her to go shove her face in the pig
 pen, and go out and find another one who’ll kiss you without askin’ for the
 earth. You’re bound to find one. You can hardly throw half a brick back in
 the lands you come from without hittin’ one.
There are no other girls,
Did you mean it?
About the fallen star?
Yes,
Well, I’d not mention it about if I were you,
There’s
 those as would be unhealthily interested in such information. Better keep
 mum. But never lie.
So what should I say?
Well,
f’r example, if they ask where you’ve come from, you
 could say ‘Behind me,’ and if they asked where you’re going, you’d say ‘In
 front of me.’ “
 “I see,
Do you think it will be far?
To the star?
How many miles to Babylon?
This
 wood wasn’t here, last time I was by this way,
How Many Miles to Babylon,
Three score miles and ten.
 Can I get there by candlelight?
Yes, and back again.
 Yes, if your feet are nimble and light,
 You can get there by candlelight.
That’s the one,
It’s only a nursery rhyme,
Only a nursery... ? Bless me, there’s some on this side of the wall would
 give seven years’ hard toil for that little cantrip. And back where you come
 from you mutter ‘em to babes alongside of a ‘Rock-a-Bye-Baby’ or a ‘Rub-a
Dub-Dub,’ without a second thought... Are you chilled, lad?
Now that you mention it, I am a bit cold, yes.
Look around you. Can you see a path?
Now we’re for it,
Should we run?
Not much point,
We’ve walked
 into the trap, and we’ll still be in it even if we runs.
I could castle,
but there’s no
 one I could castle with’d be any better off here than we are... There’s no
 escape by flying, not judgin’ by that thing.
And your sort of people never could learn to burrow—not that
that’d do us much good…
Perhaps we could arm ourselves,
Arm ourselves?
Before they come.
Before they come? Why—they’re here, you puddenhead. It’s the trees
 themselves. We’re in a serewood.
Serewood?
It’s me own fault—I should’ve been paying more attention to where we
 was goin’. Now you’ll never get your star, and I’ll never get my merchandise.
 One day some other poor bugger lost in the wood’ll find our skellingtons
 picked clean as whistles and that’ll be that.
Is there anything we can do?
Nothing I can think of. If only we knew where the true path was... even a
 serewood couldn’t destroy the true path. Just hide it from us, lure us off of
 it...
I... I do know
 where the path is,
It’s down that way.
Are you sure?
Yes, sir. Through that copse and up a little way to the right. That’s where
 the path is.
How do you know?
I know
Right. Come on!
No! Not that way. Over to the left!
Buck up,
We’re nearly there.
Are we safe here?
We’re safe, as long as we stay on the path,
I don’t suppose you have
 such a thing as a bottle of something spirituous upon you? Or perchance a pot
 of hot, sweet tea?
No,
 ‘fraid not.
Turn
 round,
No peekin’.
You can turn around, if you like.
Um. Would you like me to help you with that?
Here go,
You’ve got the fingers for it.
It’s a crime to drink something as rare and good as this out of the bottle,
Aaaahhhh. That’s better.
Sip it slowly,
It’s worth a king’s ransom, this bottle. It cost me
 two large blue-white diamonds, a mechanical bluebird which sang, and a
 dragon’s scale.
Good, eh?
Too good for the likes of you and me, I’m afraid. Still. It hits the spot in
 times of trouble, of which this is certainly one. Let’s get out of this wood,
Which way, though... ?
That way,
We can stop here,
There’s stuff we needs to talk
 about. Sit down.
There’s
 something here I’m not properly gettin’. Now, tell me. Where are you from?
Wall,
I told you.
Who’s your father and mother?
My father’s name is Dunstan Thorn. My mother is Daisy Thorn.
Mmm. Dunstan Thorn... Mm. I met your father once. He put me up for
 the night. Not a bad chap, although he doesn’t half go on a bit while a
 fellow’s trying to get a little kip.
Still doesn’t
 explain... there isn’t anythin’ unusual in your family, is there?
My sister, Louisa, can wiggle her ears.
No,
 that’s not it,
I was thinkin’ more of a grandmother who was a
 famous enchantress, or an uncle who was a prominent warlock, or a brace of
 fairies somewhere in the family tree.
None that I know of,
Where’s the village of
 Wall?
Where are the Debatable Hills?
Where’s the Catavarian
 Isles?
Hmm. Now thens. Do you know where His Vastness the Freemartin
 Muskish is?
D’you know where His Vastness the Freemartin Mus-kish’s
 Transluminary Citadel is?
And what of Paris? The one in France?
Well, if Wall’s over there, I suppose that
 Paris must be sort of in the same sort of direction, mustn’t it.
Let’s see,
You can find places in Faerie, but not in your world, save for Wall,
 and that’s a boundary. You can’t find people... but... tell me, lad, can you find
 this star you’re lookin’ for?
It’s that way,
Hmm. That’s good. But it still doesn’t explain nuffink. You hungry?
A bit. And I’m tattered and torn,
And look at my boots ...
What’s in your bag?
Apples. Cheese. Half a cottage loaf.
 And a pot of fishpaste. My penknife. I’ve got a change of underwear, and a
 couple of pairs of woolen socks. I suppose I should have brought more
 clothes...
Keep the fishpaste,
You done me a good turn,
and I
 doesn’t forget something like that. First we’ll get your clothes took care of,
 and then we’ll send you off after your star. Yus?
That’s extremely kind of you,
Right,
Let’s find you a blanket.
Nottaway!
We’ll need beds aired, and a pot of mutton stew on the fire,
How many beds to be aired?
Three,
I’ll wager they’ll have their coachman sleep
 with the horses.
Three indeed,
when
 anyone could see a full seven of those fine gentlemen standing in the road.
There, lovey, was that good, now?
Yes,
It was.
Would you be wanting another turn, before I leave?
We can have
 him upstanding again in a twinkling,
I bet that feels good,
Now, lovey, this time let me show
 you how I like it... why, whatever is the matter?
That wine?
Where did you get it?
Your brother,
I met him on the stairs. He told me it was a
 fine restorative and stiffener, and it would provide us with a night we should
 never forget.
And so it has,
She was very beautiful,
Septimus is most crafty,
That was the self-same
 preparation of baneberries he slipped into my dish of eels,
Brevis, son. This radish was all I was able to pull
 from the ground today. All our crops have failed, and all our food has gone.
 We’ve nothing to sell but the billy goat. So I want you to halter the goat, and
 take him to the market, and sell him to a farmer. And with the coins you get
 for the goat—and you’ll take nothing less than a florin, mark you—buy a
 hen, and buy corn, and turnips; and perhaps we shall not starve.
What do they call you, boy?
They call me Brevis, ma’am,
Brevis,
Such a nice name. Would you like to sell me your
 goat, Brevis-boy?
My mother told me I was to take the goat to the market,
and to sell him for a hen, and some corn, and some turnips, and to
 bring her home the change.
How much did your mother tell you to take for the goat?
Nothing less than a florin,
Why, I will
 give you this golden guinea,
enough to buy a coopful of hens and
 a hundred bushels of turnips.
Do we have a deal?
Here,
You know,
I think that a matched pair would be so much more
 impressive than just one. Don’t you?
Be off with you, you silly things,
They said cruel things about my true love,
Miss Victoria
 Forester. How dare they?
The little folk dare anything,
And they talks a lot of
 nonsense. But they talks an awful lot of sense, as well. You listen to ‘em at
 your peril, and you ignore ‘em at your peril, too.
They said I was soon to face my true love’s scorn.
Did they, indeed?
My clothes?
These are your clothes now,
I traded
 ‘em. This stuffs better quality—see, it won’t rip and tear as easy—and it’s
 neither tattered nor torn, and withal, you’ll not stick out so much as a
 stranger. This is what people wears hereabouts, y’see.
No, no, laddie, those go over that. Mercy, what do
 they teach them nowadays?
Now then,
You’ve saved my life, laddie, back
 there in the serewood, and your father, he done me a good turn back before
 you was born, and let it never be said that I’m a cove what doesn’t pay his
 debts—
—so I was a-ponderin’: you know where your star is, don’t
 you?
Now then, how far is it, to your star? D’you know that?
A man could walk, only stopping to sleep, while the moon
 waxed and waned above him a half a dozen times, crossing treacherous
 mountains and burning deserts, before he reached the place where the star has
 fallen.
As I thought,
And it’s not like
 you’re the only one’ll be lookin’ for it. You remember what I told you
 before?
About digging a hole to bury my dung in?
Not that.
About telling no one my true name, nor my destination?
Nor yet that.
Then what?
How many miles to Babylon?
Oh. Yes. That.
Can I get there by candlelight? There and back again. Only it’s the
 candle-wax, you see. Most candles won’t do it. This one took a lot of
 findin’.
What do I do with it?
All in good time,
Take this, too. You’ll need it.
What is it?
The usual. Cat’s breath and fish-scales and moonlight on a mill-pond,
 melted and smithied and forged by the dwarfs. You’ll be needin’ it to bring
 your star back with you.
I will?
Oh, yes.
Where do I
 keep it? I have no pockets in these confounded clothes.
Wrap it around your wrist until you need it. Like that. There you go. But
 you’ve a pocket in your tunic, under there, see?
Now then,
This is what you got to do. Take up
 the candle in your right hand; I’ll light it for you. And then, walk to your star.
 You’ll use the chain to bring it back here. There’s not much wick left on the
 candle, so you’d best be snappy about it, and step lively—any daw-dlin’ and
 you’ll regret it. Feet be nimble and light, yes?
I... I suppose so, yes,
Hello?
Excuse me,
I’m looking for a star.
I won’t hurt you,
Go away,
just go away and leave me alone.
Please don’t throw any more mud at me,
Look. I didn’t mean to disturb you. It’s just there’s a star fallen somewhere
 around here, and I have to get it back before the candle burns out.
I broke my leg,
I’m sorry, of course,
But the star.
I broke my leg,
when I fell.
Go away,
Go away and leave
 me alone.
You’re the star,
And you’re a clodpoll,
and a ninny, a numbskull,
 a lackwit and a coxcomb!
Yes,
I suppose I am at that.
What,
do you think you are doing?
Taking you home with me,
I made an oath.
I just want you to know,
that whoever you are, and
 whatever you intend with me, I shall give you no aid of any kind, nor shall I
 assist you, and I shall do whatever is in my power to frustrate your plans and
 devices.
Idiot.
Mm,
Can you walk?
No,
My leg’s broken. Are you deaf, as well as stupid?
Do your kind sleep?
Of course. But not at night. At night, we shine.
Well,
I’m going to try to get some sleep. I can’t think of
 anything else to do. It’s been a long day for me, what with everything. And
 maybe you should try to sleep, too. We’ve got a long way to go.
Dunderhead. Bumpkin. Dolt,
Cretinous,
 verminous oaf,
This is honestly nothing personal,
I did it for love,
And you really are my only hope. Her
 name—that is, the name of my love—is Victoria. Victoria Forester. And she
 is the prettiest, wisest, sweetest girl in the whole wide world.
And this wise, sweet
 creature sent you here to torture me?
Well, not exactly. You see, she promised me anything I desired—be it her
 hand in marriage or her lips to kiss—were I to bring her the star that we saw
fall the night before last. I had thought,
that a fallen star
 would probably look like a diamond or a rock. I certainly wasn’t expecting a
 lady.
So, having found a lady, could you not have come to her aid, or left her
 alone? Why drag her into your foolishness?
Love,
I hope you choke on it,
I won’t,
Here. Try this.
I told you,
that I would do everything in my power to frustrate
 your plans and devices.
How very bland this
 world does look by day. And how dull.
Just put your weight on me, and the rest on the crutch,
You’ll
 have to move sometime.
What’s wrong?
My leg. I can’t
 stand on it. It must really be broken.
I’m sorry,
I can make you a splint. I’ve done it
 for sheep. It’ll be all right.
Really,
we ought to get you to a proper doctor. I’m not a
 surgeon or anything.
No?
You astonish me.
Better try again, I
 suppose,
So why did you fall?
Did you trip over something?
I did not trip,
I was hit. By this.
There’s a
 bruise on my side where it hit me and knocked me from the sky. And now
 I am obligated to carry it about with me.
Why?
You’ll starve,
Is there not an easier path?
Some kind of road, or a level clearing?
There is a
 road half a mile that way,
and a clearing over there,
 beyond that thicket,
You knew that?
Yes. No. Well, I only knew it once you asked me.
Let us make for the clearing,
Wait. Do you hear drums?
Stop them,
They will kill each other.
Please, do something. The lion will kill him,
Here, now... Easy... Here’s your crown...
Hullo,
You won. Let the unicorn
 go.
Poor, poor creature,
Before you says anything,
I should tell ye
 that I’m just a poor old flower-seller, a harmless old biddy who’s never done
 nothing to no one, and that the sight of a grand and terrifying lady such as
 yourself fills me with dread and fear.
I will not harm you,
That’s what you says,
But how am I to know that
it’s so, a sweet old dear like me, who’s all a-tremble from her toes to her
 water? You might be planning to rob me in the night, or worse.
I swear,
that, by the rules and
 constraints of the Sisterhood to which you and I belong, by the puissance of
 the Lilim, and by my lips and breasts and maidenhood, that I mean you no
 harm, and shall treat you as if you were my own guest.
That’s good enough for me, dearie-ducks,
Come and sit down. Supper’11 be cooked in two
 shakes of a lamb’s tail.
With good will,
Fine
 goats,
Now, my dear, my old eyes aren’t what once they
 were by any means, but would I be correct in supposing that one of those fine
 fellows started life walking on two legs, not four?
Such things have been heard of,
That
 splendid bird of yours, for example.
That bird gave away one of the prizes of my stock of items for sale, gave
 it away to a good-for-nothing, nearly twenty years ago. And afterward, the
 trouble she put me through scarcely bears considering. So these days, she
 stays a bird, unless there’s work that needs doing, or the flower-stall to run;
 and if I could find a good strong servant, not afraid of a little hard work, why
 then she would stay a bird forever.
They call me Mistress Semele,
You may call me
Morwanneg,
I was
 going to be eating with fingers on a plate of fresh leaves,
But I thought, well, how often does I get such fine
 company? So nothing but the best. Heads or tails?
Let it be your choice,
Head, then, for you, with the luscious eyes and brains, and the crispy
crunchy ears of him. And I’ll have the rump, with nothing but dull meat to
 nibble.
There’s no salt, my dear, but
 if you shake this on it will do the trick. A little basil, a little mountain thyme
 —my own receipt.
How is it?
Perfectly palatable,
It is the herbs make it so fine,
I can taste the basil and the thyme,
but there is another
 taste I find harder to place.
Ah,
It is certainly a most uncommon taste.
That it is. It’s a herb that grows only in Garamond, on an island in the
midst of a wide lake. It is most pleasant with all manner of meats and fishes,
 and it reminds me in flavor a little of the leaves of fennel, with but a hint of
 nutmeg. The flowers of it are a most attractive shade of orange. It is good for
 wind and the ague, and it is, in addition, a gentle soporific, which has the
 curious property of causing one who tastes of it to speak nothing but the truth
 for several hours.
Limbus grass?
You dared to feed me limbus grass.
That’s how it would seem, dearie,
So, tell me now, Mistress Morwanneg, if that’s your
 name, where are you a-going-of, in your fine chariot? And why do you
 remind me so of someone I knew once... ? And Madame Semele forgets
 nothing and no one.
I am on my way to find a star,
which fell in the
 great woods on the other side of Mount Belly. And when I find her, I shall
 take my great knife and cut out her heart, while she lives, and while her heart
 is her own. For the heart of a living star is a sovereign remedy against all the
 snares of age and time. My sisters wait for me to return.
The heart of a star, is it? Hee! Hee! Such a prize
 it will make for me. I shall taste enough of it that my youth will come back,
 and my hair turn from grey to golden, and my dugs swell and soften and
 become firm and high. Then I shall take all the heart that’s left to the Great
 Market at Wall. Hee!
You shall not do this thing,
No? You are
 my guest, my dear. You swore your oath. You’ve tasted of my food.
 According to the laws of our sisterhood, there is nothing you can do to harm
 me.
Oh, there are so many things I could do to harm you, Ditchwater Sal, but I
 shall simply point out that one who has eaten limbus grass can speak nothing
 but the truth for several hours afterward; and one more thing ...
This I say:
 you have stolen knowledge you did not earn, but it shall not profit you. For
you shall be unable to see the star, unable to perceive it, unable to touch it, to
 taste it, to find it, to kill it. Even if another were to cut out its heart and give it
 to you, you would not know it, never know what you had in your hand. This I
 say. These are my words, and they are a true-speaking. And know this also: I
 swore, by the compact of the Sisterhood, that I would do you no harm. Had I
 not so sworn I would change you into a black-beetle, and I would pull your
 legs off, one by one, and leave you for the birds to find, for putting me to this
 indignity.
Who are you?
When you knew me last,
I ruled
 with my sisters in Carnadine, before it was lost.
Vow? But you are dead, long dead.
They have said that the Lilim were dead before now, but they have
 always lied. The squirrel has not yet found the acorn that will grow into the
 oak that will be cut to form the cradle of the babe who will grow to slay me.
So it is you. And you have your youth back.
And now I, too, shall be young again.
You shall be nothing of the kind,
Did you not hear me? A moment after I leave, you shall forget that
 ever you saw me. You shall forget all of this, even my curse, although the
 knowledge of it shall vex and irritate you, like an itch in a limb long since
 amputated. And may you treat your guests with more grace and respect in the
 future.
Whatever could have possessed me to drop the bowl into the
 fire?
And look, one of my nice knives, all burned up
 and ruined. Whatever was I a-thinking of?
I’m getting old,
Getting old. And there’s no doing anything about that.
Primus is certainly learning caution,
Well, you know what they say,
a man who is tired of looking over his shoulder for
 Septimus is tired of life.
Good master!
There’s a man in
 town, come by land. He lodges with Mistress Pettier. He is thin and crowlike,
 and I saw him in the Ocean’s Roar, buying grog for every man in the room.
 He says he is a distressed seafaring man, seeking a berth.
Look, I know all that stuff about frustrating my plans every step of
 the way, but if the unicorn is willing, perhaps it would carry you on its back,
for a little way.
Well?
Can you
 understand me?
Will you carry the lady?
 Please?
Please, stop,
You had better come up here, too,
If the unicorn will let you. Otherwise you’ll just faint or something,
 and drag me onto the ground with you. And we need to go somewhere so that
 you can get food.
There is a village on the other side of that hill,
I expect
 that we can find something to eat when we get there.
Are you hungry?
Look,
I’m starving. Perfectly famished. I don’t know if you—if
 stars—eat, or what they eat. But I won’t have you starving yourself.
We eat only darkness,
and we drink only light. So I’m nuh-not
 hungry. I’m lonely and scared and cold and muh-miserable and cuh-captured
 but I’m nuh-not hungry.
Don’t cry,
Look, I’ll go into the village and get some
 food. You just wait here. The unicorn will protect you, if anyone comes.
Wait here?
Oh,
Give me your hand.
Hmm,
It looks,
as if I’m as tied to you as
 you are to me.
Perhaps there’s a
 magic word or something.
I don’t know any magic words,
Please?
Here you go,
I’ll try not to be too long. And if any of the fair folk sing their
 silly songs at you, for heaven’s sake, don’t throw your crutch at them. They’ll
 only steal it.
I won’t,
I’ll have to trust you, on your honor as a star, not to run away,
I will do no running for quite some time,
Hello?
Hello?
There,
She is coming to me.
It is moving faster, further,
You were dreaming,
Yes,
I was dreaming.
I had a dream last night, too,
In my dream, I looked up
 and I could see the whole forest, and something huge was moving through it.
 And it got closer, and closer, and I knew what it was.
What was it?
Everything,
It was Pan. When I was very young, somebody—
 maybe it was a squirrel, they talk so much, or a magpie, or maybe a fishie—
 told me that Pan owned all this forest. Well, not owned owned. Not like he
 would sell the forest to someone else, or put a wall all around it—
Or cut down the trees,
Hello?
Hello?
You shouldn’t say things like that,
Sorry,
But
 you were telling me that Pan owned the forest...
Of course he does,
It’s not hard to own something. Or
 everything. You just have to know that it’s yours, and then be willing to let it
 go. Pan owns this forest, like that. And in my dream he came over to me. You
 were in my dream, too, leading a sad girl by a chain. She was a very sad, sad
 girl. Pan told me to help you.
Me?
And it made me feel all warm and tingly and squishy inside, from the tips
 of my leaves to the end of my roots. So I woke up, and there you were, fast
 asleep with your head by my trunk, snoring like a pig-wiggin.
You are a tree,
I didn’t always used to be a tree,
A magician made me a tree.
What were you before?
Do you think he likes me?
Who?
Pan. If you were the Lord of the Forest, you wouldn’t give a job to
 someone, tell them to give all possible aid and succor, unless you liked them,
 would you?
Well...
A nymph. I was a wood-nymph. But I got pursued by
 a prince, not a nice prince, the other kind, and, well, you’d think a prince,
 even the wrong kind, would understand about boundaries, wouldn’t you?
You would?
Exactly what I think. But he didn’t, so I did a bit of invoking while I was
 running, and—ba-boom—tree. What do you think?
Well,
I do not know what you were like as a wood
nymph, madam, but you are a magnificent tree.
I was
 pretty cute as a nymph, too,
What kind of aid and succor, exactly?
Not that I am
 grumbling. I mean, right now I need all the aid and succor I can get. But a
 tree is not necessarily the obvious place to look for it. You cannot come with
 me, or feed me, or bring the star here, or send us back to Wall to see my true
 love. I am certain you would do a remarkable job of keeping off the rain,
 were it to rain, but it is not, at present, raining...
Why don’t you tell me your story so far,
and let me be the best judge of whether or not I can be of help.
If you
 had kept her chained, and she had escaped her chains, then there is no power
 on earth or sky could ever make me help you, not if Great Pan or Lady Sylvia
 herself were to plead or implore me. But you unchained her, and for that I
 will help you.
Thank you,
I will tell you three true things. Two of them I will tell you now, and the
 last is for when you need it most. You will have to judge for yourself when
 that will be.
 “First, the star is in great danger. What occurs in the midst of a wood is
 soon known at its furthest borders, and the trees talk to the wind, and the
 wind passes the word along to the next wood it comes to. There are forces
 that mean her harm, and worse than harm. You must find her, and protect her.
 “Secondly, there is a path through the forest, off past that fir tree (and I
 could tell you things about that fir tree that would make a boulder blush), and
 in a few minutes a carriage will be coming down that path. Hurry, and you
 will not miss it.
 “And thirdly, hold out your hands.
There,
Keep it safe. And listen to it, when you need it
 most. Now,
the coach is nearly here. Run! Run!
Damnedest thing,
there was no wind, no storm.
 It simply fell. Terrified the horses.
I do not take passengers,
Of course,
But without me you would still be stuck here.
 Surely Providence sent you to me, just as Providence sent me to you. I will
 not take you out of your path, and there may again come a time when you are
 glad of another pair of hands.
Pick one,
Hmm,
Now pick another.
And another.
Yes, you can come
 with me,
The runes seem certain of that. Although there will be
 danger. But perhaps there will be more fallen branches to move. You can sit
up front, if you wish, on the driver’s seat beside me, and keep me company.
I am getting old,
Things inanimate have
 always been more difficult to change than things animate. Their souls are
 older and stupider and harder to persuade. If I but had my true youth again...
 why, in the dawn of the world I could transform mountains into seas and
 clouds into palaces. I could populate cities with the pebbles on the shingle. If
 I were young again ...
You two,
inside. She is riding this way, and she
 will have to come through this pass. Now I simply have to ensure that she
 will come inside. You,
are
Billy, the owner of this tavern. I shall be your wife, and this,
is our daughter, the pot-maid.
It will rain soon,
Let us prepare the fire.
If it is not too forward of me to enquire,
might I ask what
 it is that you are in search of?
My destiny,
My right to rule. And
 you?
There’s a young lady that I have offended with my behavior,
I wish to make amends.
Such
 mountains!
When you are older,
you must visit my citadel,
 high on the crags of Mount Huon. Now that is a mountain, and from there we
 can look down upon mountains next to which these
are the merest foothills.
Truth to tell,
I hope to spend the rest of my life as a sheep
 farmer in the village of Wall, for I have now had as much excitement as any
man could rightly need, what with candles and trees and the young lady and
 the unicorn. But I take the invitation in the spirit in which it was given, and
 thank you for it. If ever you visit Wall then you must come to my house, and
 I shall give you woolen clothes and sheep-cheese, and all the mutton stew
 you can eat.
You are far too kind,
You saw a unicorn, you say?
He was a most noble
 beast.
The unicorns are the moon’s creatures,
I have never
 seen one. But it is said that they serve the moon and do her bidding. We shall
 reach the mountains by tomorrow evening. I shall call a halt at sunset tonight.
 If you wish, you may sleep inside the coach; I, myself, shall sleep beside the
 fire.
You could go inside,
No point in us both getting wet.
It would be hard for me to be wetter,
without my first
 leaping into a river. I shall stay here. Two pairs of eyes and two pairs of
 hands may well be the saving of us.
You’re a fool, boy. But I appreciate it.
I am
known as Primus. The Lord Primus.
Tristran. Tristran Thorn,
There is a man,
He is tall, looks a little like
 me, but thinner, more crowlike. His eyes seem innocent and dull, but there is
 death in them. He is called Septimus, for he was the seventh boy-child our
 father spawned. If ever you see him, run and hide. His business is with me.
 But he will not hesitate to kill you if you stand in his way, or, perhaps, to
 make you his instrument with which to kill me.
He sounds a most dangerous man,
He is the most dangerous man you will ever meet.
If you ask me,
 there is something unnatural about this storm.
Unnatural?
Or more-than-natural; super-natural, if you will. I hope there is an inn
 along the way. The horses need a rest, and I could do with a dry bed and a
 warm fire. And a good meal.
I am the most miserable person who ever lived,
You are young, and in love,
Every young man in your
 position is the most miserable young man who ever lived.
Is that a light over there?
I cannot see anything. Maybe it was fool’s fire, or lightning ...
I was wrong.
 That is a light. Well-spotted, young ‘un. But there are bad things in these
 mountains. We must only hope that they are friendly.
We’re in luck!
It’s an
 inn!
At the Sign of the Chariot
Watch your step, watch your
 step,
Hello there, dearie,
Will you be coming in, dearie? Or will you be stopping out there in the
 rain?
We can get you food, if it’s food
 you’re after. There’s a fire blazing in the hearth, and enough hot water for a
tub that’ll melt the chill from your bones.
I... I will need help coming in...
My leg...
Ach, poor mite,
I’ll have my husband Billy carry you
 inside. There’s hay and fresh water in the stables, for your beast.
There, there,
 dearie. I won’t be coming too close. After all, it’s been many a long year
 since I was maiden enough to touch a unicorn, and many a long year since
 such a one was seen in these parts ...
Poor dear,
Look at you, wet as a water-nixie, look at the puddle under you, and your
 lovely dress, oh the state of it, you must be soaked to the bone...
How d’you like your baths?
warm, hot, or boil-a-lobster?
I do not know,
for I have never had a bath before.
Never had one?
Why, you
 poor duck; well, we won’t make it too hot, then. Call me if you need another
 copperful of water, I’ve got some going over the kitchen fire; and when
 you’re done with the bath, I’ll bring you some mulled wine, and some sweet
roasted turnips.
There’s a love,
How are you
 feeling now?
Much, much better, thank you,
And your heart? How does your heart feel?
My heart?
It feels happier. More easy. Less troubled.
Good. That’s good. Let us get it burning high and hot within you, eh?
 Burning bright inside you.
I am sure that under your care my heart shall blaze and burn with
 happiness,
There’s a pet, such a duck it is, the fine things it says.
This is for you to wear when
 you are done with your bath—oh no, not to hurry, ducks—it’ll be nice and
 warm for you, and your pretty dress will still be damp for a while now. Just
 give us a shout when you want to hop out of the tub and I’ll come and give
 you a hand.
A good strong heart,
Now my sweet,
you come over here and
 make yourself comfortable.
Service! Food! Wine! Fire! Where is the stableboy?
It can wait. For a little. After all, you are not going anywhere, my
 dearie?
Not on that leg of yours, and not until the rain
 lets up, eh?
I appreciate your hospitality more than I can say,
Of course you do,
Plenty of time when these nuisances have gone,
 eh?
Til groom the horses,” he told Primus. “They
Good lad. I’ll
 send a pot-boy out with some burnt ale for you.
Put it down over there,
I’ll drink it with goodwill as soon as
 my hands are free.
Settle down, there,
settle down, fellow, and I’ll see if I
 cannot find warm oats and bran for all of you.
Poison?
I am afraid not,
I have a personal superstition that, until the day
 I see my brother’s corpse cold on the ground before me, I shall drink only my
 own wine, and eat only food I have obtained and prepared myself. This I
 shall do here, if you have no objection. I shall, of course, pay you as if it were
 your own wine I was drinking. If I might trouble you to put this bottle of
 mine near the fire to take the chill from it? Now, I have a companion on my
 journey, a young man who is attending to the horses; he has sworn no such
 oath, and I am sure that if you could send him a mug of burnt ale it would
 help take the chill from his bones... ?
So, mine host,
how are
 your beds here at the back of beyond? Have you straw mattresses? Are there
 fires in the bedrooms? And I note with increasing pleasure that there is a
 bathtub in front of your fireplace—if there’s a fresh copper of steaming
 water, I shall have a bath later. But I shall pay you no more than a small
 silver coin for it, mind.
Our beds are      
STARDU
 good, and I shall have the maid make up a fire in the bedroom for you and
 your companion.
Another guest?
Well-met, milady, in this noxious
 weather.
Something must have disturbed the horses,
Perhaps the thunder,
Aye, perhaps,
You...
You have my father’s stone. You
 have the Power of Stormhold.
Well, then,
Ask me for it, and I can have done with the stupid thing.
I’ll
 not have you bothering the other guests now, my dearie-ducks,
Primus!
They have tried to poison me!
Get him!
Get the brat!
Stupid!
This had better ought to work,
What is happening?
I don’t really know,
The burning golden heart of a star at peace is so much finer than the
 flickering heart of a little frightened star,
But
 even the heart of a star who is afraid and scared is better by far than no heart
 at all.
Stand up,
I cannot,
Stand, or we die now,
Stand, or you die now?
Oh, you die now,
 children, standing or sitting. It is all the same to me.
Now,
now, walk!
Please walk,
Don’t let go of me.
Your
 beard,
You cut your beard. As if I would not have
 known you with your beard gone, Primus.
You
 would have known me, Septimus. But it might have bought me a few
 moments, wherein I might have seen you before you knew me,
So I am to be the eighty-second Lord
 of the Stormhold,
not to
 mention the Master of the High Crags, Seneschal of the Spire-Towns, Keeper
 of the Citadel, Lord High Guardian of Mount Huon and all the rest of it.
Not without the Power of Stormhold about your neck you’re not, my
 brother,
And then there’s the matter of revenge,
You must take revenge upon your
 brother’s killer before anything else, now. It’s blood-law.
Why could you not
 have waited just a few more days, brother Primus?
I would have killed you myself. I had a fine plan for your death. When
 I discovered you were no longer on the Heart of a Dream, it took me little
 enough time to steal the ship’s boat and get on your trail. And now I must
 revenge your sad carcass, and all for the honor of our blood and the
 Stormhold.
So Septimus will be the eighty-second Lord of Storm-hold,
There is a proverbial saying chiefly concerned with warning against too
 closely calculating the numerical value of un-hatched chicks,
If I had killed you, I could leave you
 here to rot,
But because that pleasure was another’s, I shall carry
 you with me a little way, and leave you on a high crag, to be eaten by
 eagles.
Thank you for these, my brother,
May you choke on them if you do not take revenge on the bitch who slit
 my gullet,
Well,
I’m afraid I’ve made rather a mess of
 everything.
You saved my life,
Didn’t you?
I suppose I must have done, yes.
I hate you,
I hated you for everything already, but now I hate
 you most of all.
Any particular reason?
Because,
now that you have saved my life,
 you are, by the law of my people, responsible for me, and I for you. Where
 you go, I must also go.
Oh,
That’s not that bad, is it?
I would rather spend my days chained to a vile wolf or a stinking pig or a
 marsh-goblin,
I’m honestly not that bad,
not when you get to know me.
 Look, I’m sorry about all that chaining you up business. Perhaps we could
 start all over again, just pretend it never happened. Here now, my name’s
 Tristran Thorn, pleased to meet you.
Mother Moon defend me!
I would sooner take the hand of
an—
I’m sure you would,
I’ve said I’m sorry,
Let’s start afresh. I’m Tristran Thorn. Pleased to meet you.
Well?
Aye,
It is a mighty joke, is it not? Whither thou goest,
 there I must go. Even if it kills me.
My sisters called me Yvaine,
For I was an
 evening star.
Look at us,
A fine pair. You with your broken leg,
 me with my hand.
Show me your hand.
Does it hurt?
Yes,
Quite a
 lot, really.
Good,
If my hand had not been burned, you would probably be dead now,
You know,
I left my bag in that madwoman’s inn. We have
 nothing now, save the clothes we stand up in.
Sit down in,
There’s no food, no water, we’re half a mile or so above the world with
 no way of getting down, and no control over where the cloud is going. And
 both of us are injured. Did I leave anything out?
You forgot the bit about clouds dissipating and vanishing into nothing,
They do that. I’ve seen them. I could not survive another fall.
Well,
We’re probably doomed, then. But we
may as well have a look around while we’re up here.
This is no use,
You go and look around. I will wait here for you.
Promise?
No running away this time?
I swear it. On my mother the moon I swear it,
You saved my life.
Get out of the coach,
Where is she?
What have you done with
 her?
Look at you!
You took the last of the
 youth we had saved—I tore it from the star’s breast myself, long, long ago,
 though she screamed and writhed and carried on ever-so. From the looks of
 you, you’ve squandered most of the youth already.
I came so close,
But she
 had a unicorn to protect her. Now I have the unicorn’s head, and I will bring
 it back with me, for it’s long enough since we had fresh ground unicorn’s
 horn in our arts.
Unicorn’s horn be damned,
What about the
 star?
I cannot find her. It is almost as if she were no longer in Faerie.
No,
She is still in Faerie. But she is going to the
 Market at Wall, and that is too close to the world on the other side of the
 wall. Once she goes into that world, she will be lost to us.
Then I shall go to Diggory’s Dyke and wait there, for all who go to Wall
 must pass that way.
Halloo!
What were you shouting about?
To let people know we were here,
What people?
You never know,
Better I should call to people who aren’t
 there than that people who are there should miss us because I didn’t say
 anything.
I’ve been thinking,
And what I’ve been thinking is this.
 After we’re done with what I need—got you back to Wall, given you to
 Victoria Forester—perhaps we could do what you need.
What 7 need?
Well, you want to go back, don’t you? Up into the sky. To shine again at
 night. So we can sort that out.
That doesn’t happen,
Stars fall. They don’t go back up again.
You could be the first,
You have to believe. Otherwise it
 will never happen.
It will never happen,
No more than your shouting is going
 to attract anyone up here where there isn’t anyone. It doesn’t matter if I
 believe it or not, that’s just the way things are. How’s your hand?
Hurts,
How’s your leg?
Hurts,
But not as badly as it did before.
Ahoy!
Ahoy down there! Parties in
need of assistance?
Was that
 you, young feller-me-lad, a-leaping and cavorting just now?
It was,
And I think we are in need of assistance, yes.
Right-ho,
Get ready to grab the ladder, then.
I’m afraid my friend has a broken leg,
and I’ve hurt my hand.
 I don’t think either of us can climb a ladder.
Not a problem. We can pull you up.
Now, haul!
Haul! Haul! Haul!
Welcome aboard,
This
 is the Free Ship Perdita, bound on a lightning-hunting expedition. Captain
 Johannes Alberic, at your service.
Meggot! Meggot! Blast you, where are you? Over here!
 Passengers in need of attention. There lad, Meggot’ll see to your hand. We
 eat at six bells. You shall sit at my table.
A lot better, thank you,
We’ll be taking anchor in a week, to take provisions, and a little cargo,
Might be best if we were to let you off down there.
Oh. Thank you,
You’ll be closer to Wall. Still a good ten-week journey, though. Maybe
 more. But Meggot says she’s nearly got your friend’s leg up to snuff. It’ll be
 able to take her weight again soon.
You know,
it wasn’t
 entirely fortune that we found you. Well, it was fortune that we found you,
 but it’d also be true to say that I was keeping half an eye out for you. I, and a
 few others about the place.
Why?
And how did you know about me?
It looks like a castle,
Not a word to say too loudly,
even
 up here. Think of it as a fellowship.
Do you know a little hairy man, with a hat and an
 enormous pack of goods?
Aye. And he’s not the only
 member of the fellowship with an interest in your return to Wall. Which
 reminds me, you should tell the young lady that if she fancies trying to pass
for other than what she is, she might try to give the impression that she eats
 something—anything—from time to time.
I never mentioned Wall in your presence,
When you
 asked where I was came from, I said ‘Behind us’ and when you asked where
 we were going, I said, ‘Ahead of us.’ “
 “That’s m’boy,
Exactly.
Oh, it’s no bother, lad. We’re
 taking on provisions here anyway),
For it looks so much
 better on you than it ever has on me, my dear)
Kubla Khan,
Quality of
 Mercy
That was wonderful,
Thank you,
I suppose that I have not felt like singing until now.
I have never heard anything like it.
Some nights,
my sisters and I would sing together. Sing
 songs like that one, all about the lady our mother, and the nature of time, and
 the joys of shining and of loneliness.
I’m sorry,
Don’t be,
At least I am still alive. I was lucky to have
 fallen in Faerie. And I think I was probably lucky to have met you.
Thank you,
You are welcome,
Well, I hope you’re proud of yourself, that’s all,
There you go,
Go home.
Look,
someone will probably be worried about you.
Thief!
I shall turn your bones to ice and
 roast you in front of a fire! I shall pluck your eyes out and tie one to a herring
 and t’other to a seagull, so the twin sights of sea and sky shall take you into
 madness! I shall make your tongue into a writhing worm and your fingers
 shall become razors, and fire ants shall itch your skin, so each time you
 scratch yourself—
There is no need to belabor your point,
I did not steal your bird. Its chain was snagged upon a root, and I had just
 freed it.
Well, perhaps what you say is not a complete pack of lies,
It’s not a pack of lies at all,
Well,
that was odd.
Come here, lad,
Yes, ma’am?
Seems I owe you an apology,
Seems you were telling the
 truth. Jumped to a conclusion.
Yes,
Let me look at you,
You look honest enough,
You can call me Madame Semele. I’m on my way to Wall, for the
 market. I was thinking that I’d welcome a boy to work my little flower-stall
 —I sells glass flowers, you know, the prettiest things that ever you did see.
 You’d be a fine market-lad, and we could put a glove over that hand of yours,
 so you’d not scare the customers. What d’ye say?
Excuse me,
Good afternoon,
We have discussed your offer, and we
 thought that—
 Well?
Don’t just
 stand there like a dumb thing! Speak! Speak! Speak!
I have no desire to work for you at the market,
for I have
 business of my own that I shall need to deal with there. However, if we could
 ride with you, my companion and I are willing to pay you for our passage.
That’s of no use to me. I can gather my
 own firewood, and you’d just be another weight for Faithless and Hopeless to
 pull. I take no passengers.
But,
I would pay you.
There’s never a thing you could possess
 that I would take for your passage. Now, if you’ll not work for me at the
 market at Wall, then be off with you.
You sell glass
 flowers, you say,
Would you be interested in this one?
Where did you get that?
Give it to me! Give it to me this
 instant!
Hmm,
It occurs to me
 now that I have a deep fondness for this flower, which was a gift from my
 father when I commenced my travels, and which, I suspect, carries with it a
 tremendous personal and familial importance. Certainly it has brought me
 luck, of one kind or another. Perhaps I would be better off keeping the
 flower, and my companion and I can walk to Wall.
Now, now. No need to be hasty. I am certain that a deal can be struck
 between us.
Oh,
I doubt it. It would need to be a very fine deal, to
 interest me, and it would need certain guarantees of safe-conduct and such
 safeguards as to assure that your behavior and actions toward me and my
 companion remained at all times benign.
Let me see the snowdrop again,
The poor thing,
chained up like that. Why do you not set
 her free?
I will transport you to Wall, and I swear upon my honor and upon
 my true name that I will take no action to harm you upon the journey.
Or by inaction, or indirect action, allow harm to come to me or my
 companion.
As you say.
I
 wish you to swear that we shall arrive in Wall in the same manner and
 condition and state that we are in now, and that you will give us board and
 lodging upon the way.
Now you,
There,
A bargain’s a
 bargain. Give me the flower.
Why, I do think that this is the superior of the one that damnable child
 gave away almost twenty years gone. Now, tell me young man,
do you know what manner of
 thing you have been wearing in your buttonhole?
It is a flower. A glass flower.
It is a frozen charm,
A thing of power.
 Something like this can perform wonders and miracles in the right hands.
 Watch.
 ‘Tain’t the
 biggest of caravans,
And I shall keep to the letter of my oath, for you shall not be harmed,
 and you shall be boarded and lodged on your journey to Wall.
And what do you propose to do to me?
There we go,
Board and lodging.
Would I be correct,
in concluding from
 the evidence to hand (to wit, that you have not looked at me, or if you have
 your eyes have slipped over me, that you have not spoken a word to me, and
 that you have changed my companion into a small animal with no such
 provision for myself) that you can neither see me nor hear me?
Of course I have kept my word—to the letter,
He shall be transformed back at the market meadow, so shall regain
 his own form before he comes to Wall. And after I have turned him back, I
 shall make you human again, for I still have to find a better servant than you
 are, silly slut. I could not have been doing with him underfoot all the livelong
 day, poking and prying and asking questions, and I’d’ve had to’ve fed him
 into the bargain, more than nuts and seeds.
Oh, you’ll have to get up pretty early in the morning
to put one past me. And I do believe that that bumpkin’s flower was even
 finer than the one you lost to me, all those years ago.
It is a fine plan,
And once
 he has killed her, he can go on to obtain the Power of Stormhold.
We shall see,
So,
you thought that you would warm yourself at the
 burning of my little cottage. Did you wait at the door to beat out the flames
 should they prove not to my liking?
You should be ashamed of yourself,
Attempting arson
 and violence upon the person of a poor old lady living upon her own, who
 would be entirely at the mercy of every passing vagabond, were it not for the
 kindness of her little friends.
There are no brothers left to take revenge on her,
and it is none of us will ever be Lord of Stormhold.
 Let us move on.
Good day, sister. What happened to your house?
Young people today. One of them thought it would be good sport to fire
 the house of a poor old woman who has never harmed a soul. Well, he
 learned his lesson soon enough.
Aye,
They always learn. And are never grateful
 to us for the lesson.
There’s truth for you,
Now,
 tell me, dear. Who rides with you this day?
That,
is none of your never-mind, and
 I shall thank you to keep yourself to yourself.
Who rides with you? Tell me truly, or I shall set harpies to tear you limb
 from limb and hang your remains from a hook deep beneath the world.
And who would you be, to threaten me so?
I know you, Ditchwater Sal. None of your damned lip. Who
 travels with you?
 Madame Semele felt the words being torn from her mouth, whether she
 would say them or no. “There are the two mules who pull my caravan,
 myself, a maid-servant I keep in the form of a large bird, and a young man in
 the form of a dormouse.
Anyone else? Anything else?
No one and nothing. I swear it upon the Sisterhood.
Then get away with
 you, and get along with you,
Out you come,
Why, you evil old crone—
Hush your silly mouth,
I got you here,
 safely and soundly, and in the same condition I found you. I gave you board
 and I gave you lodging—and if neither of them were to your liking or
 expectation, well, what is it to me? Now, be off with you, before I change
 you into a wiggling worm and bite off your head, if it is not your tail. Go!
 Shoo! Shoo!
Are you all right?
Yes, thank you,
She did not ill-use me.
 Indeed, I do not believe that she ever knew that I was there at all. Is that
 not peculiar?
So, that is the bird’s true form,
She was a good companion
 on the road.
Yes,
I can see. It is awful. But I’m not sure there’s much
 that we can do about it.
We shall visit my parents first,
For I have no doubt that they
 have missed me as I have missed them
Do you really want this?
For I have misgivings.
Don’t be nervous,
Although it’s not surprising that you have
 nerves; my stomach feels as if I had swallowed a hundred butterflies. You
 shall feel so much better when you are sitting in my mother’s parlor, drinking
 her tea—well, not drinking tea, but there will be tea for you to sip—why, I
 swear that for such a guest, and to welcome her boy back home, my mother
 would break out the best china,
Whither thou
 goest...
Good evening,
Wystan. Mister Brown.
Stay where you are!
Do you not know me?
It is me, Tristran
 Thorn.
Even if you are that good-for-nothing Thorn,
I see no reason to let either of you people through. We guard the wall,
 after all.
I, too, have guarded the wall,
And
 there are no rules about not letting people through from this direction. Only
 from the village.
And if
 you are Tristran Thorn—which I’m only conceding for the sake of argument
 here, for you look nothing like him, and you talk little enough like him either
 —in all the years you lived here, how many people came through the wall
 from the meadow side?
Why, none that ever I knew of,
Exactly,
There was no rule against it because it doesn’t happen. No one comes
 through from the other side. Not while I’m on duty, any road. Now, be off
 with you, before I take my stick to your head.
If you think I have gone through, well,
 everything I’ve gone through, only to be turned away at the last by a self
important, penny-pinching grocer and by someone who used to crib from me
 in History...
Tristran, let it
 go for now. You shall not fight with your own people.
There is something of the dormouse in him still,
Sometimes I wonder if she transforms people into animals,
 or whether she finds the beast inside us, and frees it. Perhaps there is some
thing about me that is, by nature, a brightly colored bird. It is something to
 which I have given much thought, but about which I have come to no
 conclusions.
He seems
 good-hearted,
Yes,
I suppose that he is.
I should warn you,
that if you leave these lands for ...
 over there ...
... then you will be, as I
 understand it, transformed into what you would be in that world: a cold, dead
 thing, sky-fallen.
You become used to it, in time,
Do you? Really?
No.
He once caught me with a chain much like
 yours. Then he freed me, and I ran from him. But he found me and bound me
 with an obligation, which binds my kind more securely than any chain ever
 could.
Who are you?
I told you. I was the bird in the caravan,
I know what
 you are, and I know why the witch-woman never knew that you were there. I
 know who seeks you and why she needs you. Also, I know the provenance of
 the topaz stone you wear upon a silver chain about your waist. Knowing this,
 and what manner of thing you are, I know the obligation you must be under.
I do not think that I believe you, or trust you,
I saw the topaz about your waist when I was a bird,
I watched, when you bathed in the river, and
 recognized it for what it was.
How?
How did you recognize it?
Party name of Thorn? Tristran of that set?
Mm?
They’ve been asking about you,
Down by the gap.
 Seems there’s a young lady wants to have a word with you.
What?
Good news,
Do you remember Victoria Forester? I might
 have mentioned her name once or twice on our travels.
Yes,
You might have.
Well,
I’m off to see her. She’s down by the gap.
Look. Well. Probably best if you stay here. I wouldn’t want to confuse her
 or anything.
Victoria!
Tristran!
It is you! They said it was! Oh Tristran! How could
 you? Oh, how could you?
Louisa?
You have certainly grown while
 I was away, from a chit of a girl into a fine young lady.
And you,
have turned into a mop-haired raggle-taggle gypsy on
 your journeyings. But I suppose you look well, and that is a goodthing. Come
 on, now,
But the wall—
Oh, as to that, when Wystan and Mister Brown finished their shift last
 night they repaired to the saloon bar at the Seventh Pie, where Wystan
 happened to mention their meeting with a ragamuffin who claimed to be you,
 and how they blocked his way. Your way. When news of this reached Fa
ther’s ears, he marched right up to the Pie and gave the both of them such a
 tongue-lashing and a telling-of-what-for that I could scarcely believe it was
 him.
Some of us were for letting you come back this morning,
and some were for keeping you there until midday.
But none of the ones who were for making you wait are on Wall duty this
morning,
Which took a certain amount of jiggery-pokery
 to organize—and on a day when I should have been seeing to the refreshment
 stand, I could point out. Still, it’s good to see you back. Come on through.
Tristran,
I suppose that you must have seen many strange
 sights upon your travels.
I suppose I must have,
You must come to the Vicarage, then, next week,
We
 shall have tea, and you must tell me all about it. Once you’re settled back in.
 Eh?
It does my heart good to see you again, my sister,
As if we were not all worried sick about you,
what
 with all your gallivantings. And you did not even wake me to say good-bye.
 Father has been quite distracted with concern for you, and at Christmas, when
 you were not there, after we had eaten the goose and the pudding, Father took
 out the port and he toasted absent friends, and Mother sobbed like a babe, so
 of course I cried too, and then Father began to blow his nose into his best
 handkerchief and Grandmother and Grandfather Hempstock insisted upon
 pulling the Christmas crackers and reading the jolly mottoes and somehow
 that only made matters worse, and, to put it bluntly, Tristran, you quite
 spoiled our Christmas.
Sorry,
What are we doing now? Where are we going?
We are going into the Seventh Pie
I should have thought
 that was obvious. Mister Bromios said that you could use his sitting room.
 There’s somebody there who needs to talk to you.
Oh, please don’t,
Please get up.
 Why don’t you sit down over there. In that chair? Yes. That’s better.
Look at you,
You
 became a man. And your hand. What happened to your hand?
I burnt it,
In a fire.
There are a
 number of things I must tell you, Tristran, and none of them will be easy. I
 would appreciate it if you said nothing until I have had a chance to say my
 piece. So: firstly, and perhaps most importantly, I must apologize to you. It
 was my foolishness, my idiocy, that sent you off on your journeyings. I
 thought you were joking... no, not joking. I thought that you were too much
 the coward, too much of a boy, ever to follow up on any of your fine, silly
 words. It was only when you had gone, and the days passed, and you did not
return, that I realized that you had been in earnest, and by then it was much
 too late.
 “I have had to live... each day... with the possibility that I had sent you to
 your death.
And I did not play you fair, my poor shop-boy... but you are no longer a
 shop-boy, are you?... since I thought that your quest was just foolishness, in
 every way...
Ask me why I would not kiss you that night, Tristran Thorn.
It was your right not to kiss me,
I did not come here to
 make you sad, Vicky. I did not find you your star to make you miserable.
So you did find the star we saw that night?
Oh yes,
The star is back in the meadow, though, right
 now. But I did what you asked me to do.
Then do something else for me now. Ask me why I would not kiss you
 that night. I had kissed you before, when we were younger, after all.
Very well, Vicky. Why would you not kiss me, that night?
Because,
the day before we saw the
 shooting star, Robert had asked me to marry him. That evening, when I saw
 you, I had gone to the shop hoping to see him, and to talk to him, and to tell
 him that I accepted, and he should ask my father for my hand.
Robert?
Robert Monday. You worked in his shop.
Mister Monday?
You and Mister Monday?
Exactly.
And then you had to take me
seriously and run off to bring me back a star, and not a day would go by
 when I did not feel as if I had done something foolish and bad. For I
 promised you my hand, if you returned with the star. And there were some
 days, Tristran, when I honestly do not know which I thought worse, that you
 would be killed in the Lands Beyond, all for the love of me, or that you
 would succeed in your madness, and return with the star, to claim me as your
 bride. Now, of course, some folks hereabouts told me not to take on so, and
 that it was inevitable that you would have gone off to the Lands Beyond, of
 course, it being your nature, and you being from there in the first place, but,
 somehow, in my heart, I knew I was at fault, and that, one day, you would
 return to claim me.
And you love Mister Monday?
But I gave you my word, Tristran. And I will keep my word, and I
 have told Robert this. I am responsible for all that you have gone through—
 even for your poor burned hand. And if you want me, then I am yours.
To be honest,
I think that I am responsible for all that I have
 done, not you. And it is hard to regret a moment of it, although I missed soft
 beds from time to time, and I shall never be able to look at another dormouse
 in quite the same way ever again. But you did not promise me your hand if I
 came back with the star, Vicky.
I didn’t?
No. You promised me anything I desired.
Do I understand you to be—
No,
I don’t think you do, actually.
 You said you would give me whatever I desire.
Yes.
Then...
Then I desire that you should marry Mister Monday.
 I desire that you should be married as soon as possible—why, within this
 very week, if such a thing can be arranged. And I desire that you should be as
 happy together as ever a man and woman have ever been.
Do you mean it?
Marry him with my blessing, and we’ll be quits and done,
And the star will probably think so, too.
Is all well in there?
Everything is very well,
Please come in, Robert. You
 remember Tristran Thorn, do you not?
Good morning, Mister Monday,
I understand that you are to
 be married soon. Permit me to tender my congratulations.
If you wish to see the star, Miss Forester ...
I am delighted that you came home safely, Mister Thorn. I trust that I
 shall see you at our wedding?
I’m sure that nothing could give me greater pleasure than to be there,
So you made it back without hurt,
Hello Father,
I hurt my hand a bit.
Your mother has breakfast waiting for you, back at the farm,
Breakfast would be wonderful,
And seeing Mother
 again, of course. Also we need to talk.
You look taller,
And you are badly in need of a trip to
the barber’s.
Fewer of them and fewer of them, every nine-year,
Mark my
 words, soon enough this market will be just a memory. There’s other
 markets, and other marketplaces, I am thinking. This market’s time is almost
 over. Another forty, fifty, sixty years at the most, and it will be done for
 good.
Perhaps,
but it does not matter to me. This
 is the last of these markets I shall ever attend.
I thought I had long since beaten all of
 your insolence out of you.
It is not insolence,
Look.
What have you done?
I have done nothing; nothing that I did not do eighteen years ago. I was
 bound to you to be your slave until the day that the moon lost her daughter, if
 it occurred in a week when two Mondays came together. And my time with
you is almost done.
Are you waiting for someone, my dear?
I do not know,
Perhaps.
A young man, if I do not mistake my guess, a lovely thing like you.
In a way,
I’m Victoria,
Victoria Forester.
I am called Yvaine,
So,
you are Victoria Forester. Your fame
 precedes you.
The wedding, you mean?
A wedding, is it?
Oh you poor thing! What a beast he must be, to keep you waiting so!
Why do you not go through, and look for him?
Because...
Aye,
Perhaps
 I shall.
I wish my mother were out,
I would say good-bye to her, first.
And this is Robert,
Robert, this is Yvaine. She’s
 waiting for her young man. Yvaine, this is Robert Monday. And on Friday
 next, at midday, I shall be Victoria Monday. Perhaps you could make
 something of that, my dear, in your speech at the wedding breakfast—that on
 Friday there will be two Mondays together!
Then,
you are not marrying
 Tristran Thorn?
No,
Oh,
Good.
Hello, you,
Have a good time
 waiting for me?
Not particularly,
I’m sorry,
I suppose I should have taken you with me,
 into the village.
No,
You shouldn’t have. I live as long as I am in Faerie.
 Were I to travel to your world, I would be nothing but a cold iron stone fallen
 from the heavens, pitted and pocked.
But I almost took you through with me!
I tried to,
 last night.
Yes,
Which only goes to prove that you are indeed a ninny, a
 lackwit, and a ... a clodpoll.
Dunderhead,
You always used to like calling me a
dunderhead. And an oaf.
Well,
you are all those things, and more besides. Why did you
 keep me waiting like that? I thought something terrible had happened to
 you.
I’m sorry,
I won’t leave you again.
No,
you will not.
Mackerel sky, mackerel sky, not long wet nor not long dry,
Which is all the thanks I shall ever get from them, I’ll wager,
I have said my good-byes to my family,
To my father, and my mother—my father’s wife, perhaps I should
 say—and to my sister, Louisa. I don’t think I shall be going back again. Now
 we just need to solve the problem of how to put you back up again in the sky.
 Perhaps I shall come with you.
You would not like it, up in the sky,
So ... I take it
 you will not be marrying Victoria Forester.
No,
I met her,
Did you know that she is with child?
What?
I doubt that she knows. She is one, perhaps two moons along.
Good lord. How do you know?
You know,
I was happy to
 discover that you are not marrying Victoria Forester.
So was I,
You know,
a star and a mortal man ...
Only half mortal, actually,
Everything I ever
 thought about myself—who I was, what I am— was a lie. Or sort of. You
 have no idea how astonishingly liberating that feels.
Whatever you are,
I just wanted to point out that we can
 probably never have children. That’s all.
Just so you know, that’s all,
There,
The terms of my servitude are fulfilled, and now you and I are
 done with each other.
But what shall I do? I am old. I
 cannot manage this stall by myself. You are an evil, foolish slattern, so to
 desert me like this.
Your problems are of no concern to me,
but I
shall never again be called a slattern, or a slave, or anything else that is not
 my own name. I am Lady Una, firstborn and only daughter of the eighty-first
 Lord of Storm-hold, and the spells and terms you bound me with are over and
 done. Now, you will apologize to me, and you will call me by my right name,
 or I will—with enormous pleasure— devote the rest of my life to hunting you
 down and destroying every thing that you care for and every thing that you
 are.
Then I must apologize for having called you a slattern, Lady Una,
Good. And I believe that you owe me payment for my
 services, now my time with you is done,
So, where are we going once the market is done?
I do not know,
But I have one obligation still to discharge.
You do?
Yes,
The topaz thing I showed you. I have to give it to the
 right person. The last time the right person came along, that innkeeper
woman cut his throat, so I have it still. But I wish it were gone.
Ask her for what she carries,
 Tristran Thorn.
You were
 the bird in the witch’s caravan,
When you were the dormouse, my son,
I was the bird.
 But now I have my own form again, and my time of servitude is over. Ask
 Yvaine for what she carries. You have the right.
Yvaine?
Yvaine, will you give me what you are carrying?
It was your grandfather’s,
You are the last
 male of the line of Stormhold. Put it about your neck.
It’s very nice,
It is the Power of Stormhold,
There’s no one can argue
 with that. You are of the blood, and all of your uncles are dead and gone. You
 will make a fine Lord of Stormhold.
But I have no wish to be a
 lord of anywhere,
or of anything, except perhaps my lady’s
 heart.
In almost eighteen years,
 Tristran Thorn, I have not demanded one single thing of you. And now, the
 first simple little request that I make—the tiniest favor that I ask of you—you
 say me no. Now, I ask of you, Tristran, is that any way to treat your mother?
No, Mother,
Well,
and I think it will do you young
people good to have a home of your own, and for you to have an occupation.
 And if it does not suit you, you may leave, you know. There is no silver chain
 that will be holding you to the throne of Stormhold.
Might I have the honor of knowing what you are called?
I am the Lady Una of Stormhold,
It was my payment,
For more than sixty years of
 servitude. It galled her to give it to me, but rules are rules, and she would
 have lost her magic and more if she had not settled up. Now, I plan to barter
 it for a palanquin to take us back to the Stormhold, for we must arrive in
 style. Oh, I have missed the Stormhold so badly. We must have bearers, and
 outriders, and perhaps an elephant— they are so imposing, nothing says ‘Get
 out of the way’ quite like an elephant in the front...
No,
No?
No,
You may travel by palanquin, and elephant, and
 camel and all that, if you wish to, Mother. But Yvaine and I will make our
 own way there, and travel at our own speed.
About what?
I came to fetch your heart back with me.
Is that so?
Aye,
I nearly had it, at that, up in the mountain
 pass.
D’ye
 remember?
That was you?
You, with the knives?
Mm. That was me. But I squandered away all the youth I took for the
 journey. Every act of magic lost me a little of the youth I wore, and now I am
 older than I have ever been.
If you touch me,
lay but a finger on me, you will regret it
 forevermore.
If ever you get to be my age,
you will know all
 there is to know about regrets, and you will know that one more, here or
 there, will make no difference in the long run.
So what I
 want to know is why it is that I can no longer find you, in my mind. You are
 still there, just, but you are there like a ghost, a will o’ the wisp. Not long ago
 you burned—your heart burned—in my mind like silver fire. But after that
 night in the inn it became patchy and dim, and now it is not there at all.
Could it be that the heart that you seek is no
 longer my own?
I have given my
 heart to another.
The boy? The one in the inn? With the unicorn?
Yes.
You should have let me take it back then, for my sisters and me. We
 could have been young again, well into the next age of the world. Your boy
 will break it, or waste it, or lose it. They all do.
Nonetheless,
he has my heart. I hope that your sisters will
 not be too hard on you, when you return to them without it.
All sorted out,
Nothing to worry
 about.
And the palanquin?
Oh, Mother will be traveling by palanquin. I had to promise that we’d get
 to the Stormhold sooner or later, but we can take our time on the way. I think
 we should buy a couple of horses, and see the sights.
And your mother acceded to this?
In the end,
Anyway, sorry to interrupt.
We are almost done,
My sisters will be harsh, but cruel,
However,
 I appreciate the sentiment. You have a good heart, child. A pity it will not be
 mine.
Who was
 the old biddy?
She seemed a bit familiar. Was anything
 wrong?
Nothing was wrong,
She was just someone I knew from
 the road.
Well?
Well,
Mother certainly seems to be doing an excellent job of
 reigning.
Just as you,
would do every bit as well, if you took
 the throne.
Perhaps,
And it certainly seems like it would be a nice
 place to end up, eventually. But there are so many places we have not yet
 seen. So many people still to meet. Not to mention all the wrongs to right,
 villains to vanquish, sights to see, all that. You know.
Well,
At least we shall not be bored. But
 we had better leave your mother a note.
