THE TRIBUTES
District	Twelve.	Where	you	can
 starve	to	death	in	safety,
Hey,	Catnip,
Look	what	I	shot,
Mm,	sti l	warm,
What	did	it	cost	you?
Just	a	squirrel.	Think	the	old	man	was	feeling	sentimental	this
 morning,
Even	wished	me	luck.
We l,	we	a l	feel	a	little	closer	today,	don’t	we?
Prim	left	us	a	cheese.
Thank	you,	Prim.	We’ l	have	a
 real	feast.
I	almost	forgot!	Happy	Hunger	Games!
And	may	the	odds
 —
—	be ever in	your	favor!
We	could	do	it,	you	know,
What?
Leave	the	district.	Run	off.	Live	in	the	woods.	You	and	I,	we	could
 make	it,
If	we	didn’t	have	so	many	kids,
I	never	want	to	have	kids,
I	might.	If	I	didn’t	live	here,
But	you	do,
Forget	it,
What	do	you	want	to	do?
Let’s	fish	at	the	lake.	We	can	leave	our	poles	and	gather	in	the
 woods.	Get	something	nice	for	tonight,
Once	it’s	in	the	soup,	I’ l	ca l	it	beef,
Pretty	dress,
We l,
 if	I	end	up	going	to	the	Capitol,	I	want	to	look	nice,	don’t	I?
You	won’t	be	going	to	the	Capitol,
What	can	you	have?
 Five	entries?	I	had	six	when	I	was	just	twelve	years	old.
That’s	not	her	fault,
No,	it’s	no	one’s	fault.	Just	the	way	it	is,
Good
 luck,	Katniss.
You,	too,
It’s
 to	the	Capitol’s	advantage	to	have	us	divided	among	ourselves,
See	you	in	the	square,
Wear	something	pretty,
Are	you	sure?
Of	course.	Let’s	put	your	hair	up,	too,
You	look	beautiful,
And	nothing	like	myself,
Tuck	your	tail	in,
 little	duck,
Quack.
Quack	yourself,
Come	on,	let’s	eat,
Look	how	we
 take	your	children	and	sacri ice	them	and	there’s	nothing	you	can	do.	If
 you	lift	a	inger,	we	wil	destroy	every	last	one	of	you.	Just	as	we	did	in
 District	Thirteen.
It	is	both	a	time	for	repentance	and	a	time	for	thanks,
Happy	Hunger	Games!	And	may	the	odds	be ever in
 your	favor!
But	there	are	sti l	thousands	of	slips,
Ladies	irst!
Prim!
Prim!
I	volunteer!
I	volunteer	as	tribute!
Lovely!
But	I	believe	there’s	a	sma l	matter	of
 introducing	the	reaping	winner	and	then	asking	for	volunteers,	and	if	one
 does	come	forth	then	we,	um	.	.	.
What	does	it	matter?
What	does	it	matter?
Let	her	come	forward.
No,	Katniss!	No!	You	can’t	go!
Prim,	let	go,
Let	go!
Up	you	go,
 Catnip,
We l,	bravo!
That’s	the	spirit	of	the	Games!
What’s	your	name?
Katniss	Everdeen,
I	bet	my	buttons	that	was	your	sister.	Don’t	want	her	to	steal	a l	the
 glory,	do	we?	Come	on,	everybody!	Let’s	give	a	big	round	of	applause	to
 our	newest	tribute!
Look	at	her.	Look	at	this	one!
I	like	her!
Lots	of
 .	.	.	“	He	can’t	think	of	the	word	for	a	while.	“Spunk!
More	than	you!
More	than	you!
What	an	exciting	day!
But
 more	excitement	to	come!	It’s	time	to	choose	our	boy	tribute!
Peeta
 Melark.
Feed	it	to	the	pig,	you	stupid	creature!	Why
 not?	No	one	decent	wil	buy	burned	bread!
Listen	to
 me.	Are	you	listening	to	me?
You	can’t	leave	again,
I	know.	I	won’t.	I	couldn’t	help	what
 —
We l,	you	have	to	help	it	this	time.	You	can’t	clock	out	and	leave
 Prim	on	her	own.	There’s	no	me	now	to	keep	you	both	alive.	It	doesn’t
 matter	what	happens.	Whatever	you	see	on	the	screen.	You	have	to
 promise	me	you’ l	fight	through	it!
I
 was	il.	I	could	have	treated	myself	if	I’d	had	the	medicine	I	have	now.
Then	take	it.	And	take	care	of	her!
I’ l	be	a l	right,	Katniss,
But	you	have	to	take	care,	too.	You’re	so	fast	and	brave.	Maybe	you	can
 win.
Maybe,
Then	we’d	be	rich	as
 Haymitch.
I	don’t	care	if	we’re	rich.	I	just	want	you	to	come	home.	You	wi l	try,
 won’t	you?	Rea ly,	rea ly	try?
Rea ly,	rea ly	try.	I	swear	it,
I
 love	you.	I	love	you	both.
Thank	you,
I	had	some	of	your	bread	this
 morning.	My	friend	Gale	gave	you	a	squirrel	for	it.
Not	your	best	trade,
I’ l
 keep	an	eye	on	the	little	girl.	Make	sure	she’s	eating.
They	let	you	wear	one	thing	from	your	district	in	the	arena.
 One	thing	to	remind	you	of	home.	Wil	you	wear	this?
Your	pin?
Here,	I’ l	put	it	on	your	dress,	a l	right?
Promise	you’ l
 wear	it	into	the	arena,	Katniss?
Promise?
Yes,
Listen,
Getting	a	knife	should	be	pretty	easy,	but	you’ve
 got	to	get	your	hands	on	a	bow.	That’s	your	best	chance.
They	don’t	always	have	bows,
Then	make	one,
Even	a	weak	bow	is	better	than	no	bow
 at	a l.
I	don’t	even	know	if	there’ l	be	wood,
There’s	almost	always	some	wood,
Since	that	year	half
 of	them	died	of	cold.	Not	much	entertainment	in	that.
Yes,	there’s	usua ly	some,
Katniss,	it’s	just	hunting.	You’re	the	best	hunter	I	know,
It’s	not	just	hunting.	They’re	armed.	They	think,
So	do	you.	And	you’ve	had	more	practice.	Real	practice,
You	know	how	to	kil.
Not	people,
How	different	can	it	be,	rea ly?
Don’t	let	them	starve!
I	won’t!	You	know	I	won’t!	Katniss,	remember	I	—
Where’s	Haymitch?
Last	time	I	saw	him,	he	said	he	was	going	to	take	a	nap,
We l,	it’s	been	an	exhausting	day,
At	least,	you	two	have	decent	manners,
The	pair	last	year	ate	everything	with	their	hands	like	a
 couple	of	savages.	It	completely	upset	my	digestion.
Your
 mentor	has	a	lot	to	learn	about	presentation.	A	lot	about	televised
 behavior.
He	was	drunk,
He’s	drunk
 every	year.
Every	day,
Yes,
How	odd	you	two	find	it	amusing.	You
 know	your	mentor	is	your	lifeline	to	the	world	in	these	Games.	The	one
 who	advises	you,	lines	up	your	sponsors,	and	dictates	the	presentation	of
 any	gifts.	Haymitch	can	we l	be	the	difference	between	your	life	and	your
 death!
I	miss	supper?
So	laugh	away!
I	tripped?
Sme ls	bad.
Let’s	get	you	back	to	your	room,
Clean	you	up	a	bit.
It’s	okay,
I’ l	take	it	from	here.
A l	right,
I	can	send	one	of	the	Capitol	people	to	help	you.
No.	I	don’t	want	them,
What	else?
What	other	food	can	we	find?
A l	kinds	of	things,
I	just	have	to	remember	them.
Katniss,
As	long	as	you	can	find	yourself,	you’ l	never
starve.
Up,	up,	up!	It’s	going	to
 be	a	big,	big,	big	day!
Sit	down!	Sit	down!
They	ca l	it	hot	chocolate,
It’s	good.
I	won’t	unless	I	bring	it	home.
So,	you’re	supposed	to	give	us	advice,
Here’s	some	advice.	Stay	alive,
That’s	very	funny,
Only	not	to	us.
We l,	what’s	this?
Did	I	actua ly	get	a	pair	of
 fighters	this	year?
No,
Let	the	bruise	show.	The
 audience	wi l	think	you’ve	mixed	it	up	with	another	tribute	before	you’ve
 even	made	it	to	the	arena.
That’s	against	the	rules,
Only	if	they	catch	you.	That	bruise	wi l	say	you	fought,	you	weren’t
 caught,	even	better,
Can	you	hit	anything
 with	that	knife	besides	a	table?
Stand	over	here.	Both	of	you,
We l,	you’re	not	entirely
 hopeless.	Seem	fit.	And	once	the	stylists	get	hold	of	you,	you’ l	be
 attractive	enough.
A l	right,	I’ l	make	a	deal	with	you.	You	don’t	interfere	with	my
 drinking,	and	I’ l	stay	sober	enough	to	help	you,
But	you
 have	to	do	exactly	what	I	say.
Fine,
So	help	us,
When	we	get	to	the	arena,	what’s	the	best
 strategy	at	the	Cornucopia	for	someone	—
One	thing	at	a	time.	In	a	few	minutes,	we’ l	be	pu ling	into	the
 station.	You’ l	be	put	in	the	hands	of	your	stylists.	You’re	not	going	to	like
 what	they	do	to	you.	But	no	matter	what	it	is,	don’t	resist,
But	—
No	buts.	Don’t	resist,
Who	knows?
One
 of	them	may	be	rich.
Sorry!
You’re	just	so	hairy!
Good	news,
 though.	This	is	the	last	one.	Ready?
You’re	doing	very	we l,
If	there’s	one	thing	we	can’t	stand,	it’s	a	whiner.	Grease	her
 down!
Exce lent!	You	almost
 look	like	a	human	being	now!
Thank
 you,
We	don’t	have	much	cause	to	look	nice	in	District
 Twelve.
Of	course,	you	don’t,	you	poor
 darling!
But	don’t	worry,
By	the	time	Cinna	is	through	with
 you,	you’re	going	to	be	absolutely	gorgeous!
We	promise!	You	know,	now	that	we’ve	gotten	rid	of	a l	the	hair
and	filth,	you’re	not	horrible	at	a l!
Let’s	ca l
 Cinna!
He lo,	Katniss. I’m Cinna,	your	stylist,
He lo,
Just	give	me	a	moment,	a l	right?
Who	did	your	hair?
My	mother,
It’s	beautiful.	Classic	rea ly.	And	in	almost	perfect	balance	with	your
profile.	She	has	very	clever	fingers,
You’re	new,	aren’t	you?	I	don’t	think	I’ve	seen	you	before,
Yes,	this	is	my	first	year	in	the	Games,
So	they	gave	you	District	Twelve,
I	asked	for	District	Twelve,
Why	don’t	you	put	on	your	robe	and	we’ l	have	a	chat.
How	despicable	we
 must	seem	to	you,
No	matter,
So,	Katniss,	about	your	costume	for	the
 opening	ceremonies.	My	partner,	Portia,	is	the	stylist	for	your	fe low
 tribute,	Peeta.	And	our	current	thought	is	to	dress	you	in	complementary
 costumes,
As	you	know,	it’s	customary	to	reflect	the	flavor	of
 the	district.
So,	I’ l	be	in	a	coal	miner	outfit?
Not	exactly.	You	see,	Portia	and	I	think	that	coal	miner	thing’s	very
 overdone.	No	one	wil	remember	you	in	that.	And	we	both	see	it	as	our
 job	to	make	the	District	Twelve	tributes	unforgettable,
So	rather	than	focus	on	the	coal	mining	itself,	we’re	going	to	focus
 on	the	coal,
And	what
 do	we	do	with	coal?	We	burn	it,
You’re	not	afraid	of	ire,	are	you,	Katniss?
It’s	not	real	flame,	of	course,	just	a	little	synthetic	fire	Portia	and	I
 came	up	with.	You’ l	be	perfectly	safe,
I	want	the	audience	to	recognize	you	when	you’re	in
 the	arena,
Katniss,	the	girl	who	was	on	fire.
What	do	you	think?
About	the	fire?
I’ l	rip	off	your	cape	if	you’ l	rip	off	mine,
Deal,
I	know	we	promised	Haymitch	we’d	do
 exactly	what	they	said,	but	I	don’t	think	he	considered	this	angle.
Where	is	Haymitch,	anyway?	Isn’t	he	supposed	to	protect	us	from
 this	sort	of	thing?
With	a l	that	alcohol	in	him,	it’s	probably	not	advisable	to	have	him
 around	an	open	flame,
Here	we	go
 then,
It	works.
Remember,
 heads	high.	Smiles.	They’re	going	to	love	you!
What’s	he	saying?
I	think	he	said	for	us	to	hold	hands,
District	Twelve!
Katniss!	Katniss!
No,	don’t	let	go	of	me,
Please.	I	might	fa l	out	of	this	thing.
Okay,
Thanks	for	keeping	hold	of	me.	I	was	getting	a	little	shaky	there,
It	didn’t	show,
I’m	sure	no	one	noticed.
I’m	sure	they	didn’t	notice	anything	but	you.	You	should	wear
 flames	more	often,
They	suit	you.
I’ve	been	very	mysterious,	though,
Because,	of	course,	Haymitch	hasn’t	bothered	to	te l	me	your
 strategies.	But	I’ve	done	my	best	with	what	I	had	to	work	with.	How
 Katniss	sacrificed	herself	for	her	sister.	How	you’ve	both	successfu ly
 struggled	to	overcome	the	barbarism	of	your	district.
Everyone	has	their	reservations,	natura ly.	You	being	from	the	coal
 district.	But	I	said,	and	this	was	very	clever	of	me,	I	said,	‘We l,	if	you	put
 enough	pressure	on	coal	it	turns	to	pearls!’“	Effie	beams	at	us	so
 bri liantly	that	we	have	no	choice	but	to	respond	enthusiastica ly	to	her
 cleverness	even	though	it’s	wrong.
 Coal	doesn’t	turn	to	pearls.	They	grow	in	she lfish.	Possibly	she
 meant	coal	turns	to	diamonds,	but	that’s	untrue,	too.	I’ve	heard	they	have
 some	sort	of	machine	in	District	1	that	can	turn	graphite	into	diamonds.
 But	we	don’t	mine	graphite	in	District	12.	That	was	part	of	District	13’s
 job	until	they	were	destroyed.
 I	wonder	if	the	people	she’s	been	plugging	us	to	a l	day	either	know
 or	care.
 “Unfortunately,	I	can’t	seal	the	sponsor	deals	for	you.	Only	Haymitch
 can	do	that,
But	don’t	worry,	I’ l	get	him	to	the	table	at
 gunpoint	if	necessary.
What	makes	it	burn?	Is
 it	alcohol?
That’s	the	last	thing	I	wa	—	oh!	I
 know	you!
Don’t	be	ridiculous,	Katniss.	How	could	you	possibly	know	an
 Avox?
The	very	thought.
What’s	an	Avox?
Someone	who	committed	a	crime.	They	cut	her	tongue	so	she	can’t
 speak,
She’s	probably	a	traitor	of	some	sort.	Not	likely
 you’d	know	her.
And	even	if	you	did,	you’re	not	to	speak	to	one	of	them	unless	it’s	to
 give	an	order,
Of	course,	you	don’t	rea ly	know	her.
No,	I	guess	not,	I	just	—
De ly	Cartwright.	That’s	who	it	is.	I	kept
 thinking	she	looked	familiar	as	we l.	Then	I	realized	she’s	a	dead	ringer
 for	De ly.
Of	course,	that’s	who	I
 was	thinking	of.	It	must	be	the	hair,
Something	about	the	eyes,	too,
Oh,	we l.	If	that’s	a l	it	is,
And	yes,	the	cake	has	spirits,	but	a l	the	alcohol	has	burned	off.	I	ordered
 it	specia ly	in	honor	of	your	fiery	debut.
Ahh!
Whose	idea	was	the	hand	holding?
Cinna’s,
Just	the	perfect	touch	of	rebe lion,
Very	nice.
Tomorrow	morning	is	the	first	training	session.	Meet	me	for
 breakfast	and	I’ l	te l	you	exactly	how	I	want	you	to	play	it,
Now	go	get	some	sleep	while	the	grown-ups	talk.
So,	De ly	Cartwright.	Imagine
 finding	her	lookalike	here.
Have	you	been	on	the	roof	yet?
Cinna	showed	me.	You	can	practica ly	see	the	whole	city.
 The	wind’s	a	bit	loud,	though.
No	one	wi l	overhear	us	talking
Can	we	just
 go	up?
Sure,	come	on,
I	asked	Cinna	why	they	let	us	up	here.	Weren’t	they	worried	that
 some	of	the	tributes	might	decide	to	jump	right	over	the	side?
What’d	he	say?
You	can’t,
Some	kind	of	electric	field
 throws	you	back	on	the	roof.
Always	worried	about	our	safety,
Do	you	think
 they’re	watching	us	now?
Maybe,
Come	see	the	garden.
We	were	hunting	in	the	woods	one
 day.	Hidden,	waiting	for	game,
You	and	your	father?
No,	my	friend	Gale.	Suddenly	a l	the	birds	stopped	singing	at	once.
 Except	one.	As	if	it	were	giving	a	warning	ca l.	And	then	we	saw	her.	I’m
 sure	it	was	the	same	girl.	A	boy	was	with	her.	Their	clothes	were	tattered.
 They	had	dark	circles	under	their	eyes	from	no	sleep.	They	were	running
 as	if	their	lives	depended	on	it,
The	hovercraft	appeared	out	of	nowhere,
I
mean,	one	moment	the	sky	was	empty	and	the	next	it	was	there.	It	didn’t
 make	a	sound,	but	they	saw	it.	A	net	dropped	down	on	the	girl	and	carried
 her	up,	fast,	so	fast	like	the	elevator.	They	shot	some	sort	of	spear
 through	the	boy.	It	was	attached	to	a	cable	and	they	hauled	him	up	as
 we l.	But	I’m	certain	he	was	dead.	We	heard	the	girl	scream	once.	The
 boy’s	name,	I	think.	Then	it	was	gone,	the	hovercraft.	Vanished	into	thin
 air.	And	the	birds	began	to	sing	again,	as	if	nothing	had	happened.
Did	they	see	you?
I	don’t	know.	We	were	under	a	shelf	of	rock,
You’re	shivering,
They	were	from	here?
Where	do	you	suppose	they	were	going?
I	don’t	know	that,
Or	why	they	would	leave	here.
I’d	leave	here,
I’d	go	home	now	if
 they	let	me.	But	you	have	to	admit,	the	food’s	prime.
It’s	getting	chi ly.	We	better	go	in,
Your	friend	Gale.	He’s	the
 one	who	took	your	sister	away	at	the	reaping?
Yes.	Do	you	know	him?
Not	rea ly.	I	hear	the	girls	talk	about	him	a	lot.	I	thought	he	was
 your	cousin	or	something.	You	favor	each	other,
No,	we’re	not	related,
Did	he	come	to	say	good-bye	to	you?
Yes,
So	did	your	father.	He	brought
 me	cookies.
Rea ly?	We l,	he	likes	you
 and	your	sister.	I	think	he	wishes	he	had	a	daughter	instead	of	a	houseful
 of	boys.
He	knew	your	mother	when	they	were	kids,
Oh,	yes.	She	grew	up	in	town,
See	you	in	the	morning
then.
See	you,
Oh,	sorry,
I	was	supposed	to	get	those	back	to	Cinna.	I’m
 sorry.	Can	you	take	them	to	him?
So,	let’s	get	down	to	business.
 Training.	First	off,	if	you	like,	I’ l	coach	you	separately.	Decide	now.
Why	would	you	coach	us	separately?
Say	if	you	had	a	secret	ski l	you	might	not	want	the	other	to	know
 about,
I	don’t	have	any	secret	ski ls,
And	I	already	know	what	yours	is,	right?	I	mean,	I’ve	eaten	enough	of
 your	squirrels.
You	can	coach	us	together,
A l	right,	so	give	me	some	idea	of	what	you	can	do,
I	can’t	do	anything,
Unless	you	count	baking	bread.
Sorry,	I	don’t.	Katniss.	I	already	know	you’re	handy	with	a	knife,
Not	rea ly.	But	I	can	hunt,
With	a	bow	and	arrow.
And	you’re	good?
I’m	a l	right,
She’s	exce lent,
My	father	buys	her	squirrels.	He
 always	comments	on	how	the	arrows	never	pierce	the	body.	She	hits
 every	one	in	the	eye.	It’s	the	same	with	the	rabbits	she	se ls	the	butcher.
 She	can	even	bring	down	deer.
What	are	you
 doing?
What	are	you	doing?	If	he’s	going	to	help	you,	he	has	to	know	what
 you’re	capable	of.	Don’t	underrate	yourself,
What	about
 you?	I’ve	seen	you	in	the	market.	You	can	lift	hundred-pound	bags	of
 flour,
Te l	him	that.	That’s	not	nothing.
Yes,	and	I’m	sure	the	arena	wi l	be	fu l	of	bags	of	flour	for	me	to
 chuck	at	people.	It’s	not	like	being	able	to	use	a	weapon.	You	know	it
 isn’t,
He	can	wrestle,
He	came	in	second	in	our	school
 competition	last	year,	only	after	his	brother.
What	use	is	that?	How	many	times	have	you	seen	someone	wrestle
 someone	to	death?
There’s	always	hand-to-hand	combat.	A l	you	need	is	to	come	up
 with	a	knife,	and	you’ l	at	least	stand	a	chance.	If	I	get	jumped,	I’m	dead!
But	you	won’t!	You’ l	be	living	up	in	some	tree	eating	raw	squirrels
 and	picking	off	people	with	arrows.	You	know	what	my	mother	said	to	me
 when	she	came	to	say	good-bye,	as	if	to	cheer	me	up,	she	says	maybe
 District	Twelve	wi l	fina ly	have	a	winner.	Then	I	realized,	she	didn’t	mean
 me,	she	meant	you!
Oh,	she	meant	you,
She	said,	‘She’s	a	survivor,	that	one.’ She is,
But	only	because	someone	helped	me.
People	wi l	help	you	in	the
 arena.	They’ l	be	tripping	over	each	other	to	sponsor	you.
No	more	than	you,
She	has	no	idea.	The	effect	she	can
 have.
We l,	then.	We l,	we l,
 we l.	Katniss,	there’s	no	guarantee	they’ l	be	bows	and	arrows	in	the
 arena,	but	during	your	private	session	with	the	Gamemakers,	show	them
 what	you	can	do.	Until	then,	stay	clear	of	archery.	Are	you	any	good	at
 trapping?
I	know	a	few	basic	snares,
That	may	be	significant	in	terms	of	food,
And
 Peeta,	she’s	right,	never	underestimate	strength	in	the	arena.	Very	often,
 physical	power	tilts	the	advantage	to	a	player.	In	the	Training	Center,	they
 wi l	have	weights,	but	don’t	reveal	how	much	you	can	lift	in	front	of	the
 other	tributes.	The	plan’s	the	same	for	both	of	you.	You	go	to	group
 training.	Spend	the	time	trying	to	learn	something	you	don’t	know.	Throw
 a	spear.	Swing	a	mace.	Learn	to	tie	a	decent	knot.	Save	showing	what
 you’re	best	at	until	your	private	sessions.	Are	we	clear?
One	last	thing.	In	public,	I	want	you	by	each	other’s	side	every
 minute,
Every	minute!	It’s	not	open	for	discussion!	You	agreed
 to	do	as	I	said!	You	wil	be	together,	you	wi l	appear	amiable	to	each
 other.	Now	get	out.	Meet	Effie	at	the	elevator	at	ten	for	training.
Where	would	you	like	to	start?
Suppose	we	tie	some	knots,
Right	you	are,
I do	the	cakes,
The	cakes?
What
 cakes?
At	home.	The	iced	ones,	for	the	bakery,
It’s	lovely.	If	only	you	could	frost	someone	to	death,
Don’t	be	so	superior.	You	can	never	te l	what	you’ l	find	in	the
 arena.	Say	it’s	actua ly	a	gigantic	cake	—
Say	we	move	on,
And	there	you	have	it,
You	certainly	know	a	lot,
Only	about	bread,
Okay,	now	laugh	as	if	I’ve	said
 something	funny.
A l	right,	I’ l	keep	smiling	pleasantly	and	you	talk,
Did	I	ever	te l	you	about	the	time	I	was	chased	by	a	bear?
No,	but	it	sounds	fascinating,
I	think	we	have	a	shadow.
I	think	her	name’s	Rue,
What	can	we	do	about	it?
Nothing	to	do,
Just	making	conversation.
Someone	ought	to	get	Haymitch	a	drink.
Don’t.	Don’t	let’s
 pretend	when	there’s	no	one	around.
A l	right,	Katniss,
Remember	what	Haymitch	said	about	being	sure	to	throw	the
 weights.
Thanks.	I	wi l,
You	.	.	.	shoot	straight.
Thank	you	for	your	consideration,
Okay,	enough	sma l	talk,	just	how	bad	were
 you	today?
I	don’t	know	that	it	mattered.	By	the	time	I	showed
 up,	no	one	even	bothered	to	look	at	me.	They	were	singing	some	kind	of
 drinking	song,	I	think.	So,	I	threw	around	some	heavy	objects	until	they
 told	me	I	could	go.
And	you,	sweetheart?
I	shot	an	arrow	at	the	Gamemakers.
You	what?
I	shot	an	arrow	at	them.	Not	exactly	at	them.	In	their	direction.	It’s
 like	Peeta	said,	I	was	shooting	and	they	were	ignoring	me	and	I	just	.	.	.	I
 just	lost	my	head,	so	I	shot	an	apple	out	of	their	stupid	roast	pig’s	mouth!
And	what	did	they	say?
Nothing.	Or	I	don’t	know.	I	walked	out	after	that,
Without	being	dismissed?
I	dismissed	myself,
We l,	that’s that,
Do	you	think	they’ l	arrest	me?
Doubt	it.	Be	a	pain	to	replace
 you	at this	stage,
What	about my	family?
Wi l	they	punish them?
Don’t	think	so.	Wouldn’t	make	much	sense.	See	they’d	have	to
 reveal	what	happened	in	the	Training	Center	for	it	to	have	any
 worthwhile	effect	on	the	population.	People	would	need	to	know	what
 you	did.	But	they	can’t	since	it’s	secret,	so	it’d	be	a	waste	of	effort,
More	likely	they’ l	make	your	life	he l	in	the	arena.
We l,	they’ve	already	promised	to	do	that	to	us	any	way,
Very	true,
What	were	their	faces
 like?
Shocked.	Terrified.	Uh,
 ridiculous,	some	of	them.
One	man	tripped
 backward	into	a	bowl	of	punch.
We l,	it	serves	them	right.	It’s	their	job	to
 pay	attention	to	you.	And	just	because	you	come	from	District	Twelve	is
 no	excuse	to	ignore	you.
I’m	sorry,	but	that’s	what	I	think,
I’ l	get	a	very	bad	score,
Scores	only	matter	if	they’re	very	good,	no	one	pays	much	attention
 to	the	bad	or	mediocre	ones.	For	a l	they	know,	you	could	be	hiding	your
 talents	to	get	a	low	score	on	purpose.	People	use	that	strategy,
I	hope	that’s	how	people	interpret	the	four	I’ l	probably	get,
If	that.	Rea ly,	is	anything	less	impressive	than	watching	a	person
 pick	up	a	heavy	ba l	and	throw	it	a	couple	of	yards.	One	almost	landed	on
 my	foot.
There	must	be	a	mistake.	How	.	.	.	how	could	that	happen?
Guess	they	liked	your	temper,
They’ve	got	a	show	to	put
 on.	They	need	some	players	with	some	heat.
Katniss,	the	girl	who	was	on	fire,
Oh,	wait	until	you	see	your	interview	dress.
More	flames?
Of	a
 sort,
That’s	dangerous.
What’s	your	name?
Katniss,
We l,	Catnip,	stealing’s	punishable	by	death,	or	hadn’t	you	heard?
Katniss,
And	I	wasn’t	stealing	it.	I	just	wanted	to	look
 at	your	snare.	Mine	never	catch	anything.
So	where’d	you	get	the	squirrel?
I	shot	it.
Can	I	see	that?
Just	remember,	stealing’s	punishable	by	death.
We l,	there’s	some	room	for	improvement
 there.
big,	big,
 big	day!
So,	what’s	going	on?	You’re	coaching	us	on
 interviews	today,	right?
That’s	right,
You	don’t	have	to	wait	until	I’m	done.	I	can	listen	and	cat	at	the
 same	time,
We l,	there’s	been	a	change	of	plans.	About	our	current	approach,
What’s	that?
Peeta	has	asked	to	be	coached	separately.
Good,
So	what’s	the	schedule?
You’ l	each	have	four	hours	with	Effie	for	presentation	and	four
with	me	for	content,
You	start	with	Effie,	Katniss.
Not	above	the	ankle!
We l,	that’s	the	best	I	can	do,
Just	remember,
 Katniss,	you	want	the	audience	to	like	you.
And	you	don’t	think	they	wi l?
Not	if	you	glare	at	them	the	entire	time.	Why	don’t	you	save	that	for
 the	arena?	Instead,	think	of	yourself	among	friends,
They’re	betting	on	how	long	I’ l	live!
They’re	not	my
 friends!
We l,	try	and	pretend!
See,	like	this.	I’m	smiling	at	you	even	though	you’re
 aggravating	me.
Yes,	it	feels	very	convincing,
I’m	going	to	eat.
What?
I’m	trying	to	figure	out	what	to	do	with	you,
How	we’re
 going	to	present	you.	Are	you	going	to	be	charming?	Aloof?	Fierce?	So	far,
 you’re	shining	like	a	star.	You	volunteered	to	save	your	sister.	Cinna	made
 you	look	unforgettable.	You’ve	got	the	top	training	score.	People	are
 intrigued,	but	no	one	knows	who	you	are.	The	impression	you	make
 tomorrow	wil	decide	exactly	what	I	can	get	you	in	terms	of	sponsors,
What’s	Peeta’s	approach?	Or	am	I	not	a lowed	to	ask?
Likable.	He	has	a	sort	of	self-deprecating	humor	natura ly,
Whereas	when	you	open	your	mouth,	you	come	across	more
 as	su len	and	hostile.
I	do	not!
Please.	I	don’t know	where	you	pu led	that	cheery, wavy	girl	on	the
 chariot	from,	but	I	haven’t	seen	her	before	or	since,
And	you’ve	given	me	so	many	reasons	to	be	cheery,
But	you	don’t	have	to	please	me.	I’m	not	going	to	sponsor	you.	So
 pretend	I’m	the	audience,
Delight	me.
Fine!
A l	right,	enough,
We’ve	got	to	find	another	angle.	Not
 only	are	you	hostile,	I	don’t	know	anything	about	you.	I’ve	asked	you	fifty
 questions	and	sti l	have	no	sense	of	your	life,	your	family,	what	you	care
 about.	They	want	to	know	about	you,	Katniss.
But	I	don’t	want	them	to!	They’re	already	taking	my	future!	They
 can’t	have	the	things	that	mattered	to	me	in	the	past!
Then	lie!	Make	something	up!
I’m	not	good	at	lying,
We l,	you	better	learn	fast.	You’ve	got	about	as	much	charm	as	a
 dead	slug,
Here’s	an	idea.	Try	acting	humble.
Humble,
That	you	can’t	believe	a	little	girl	from	District	Twelve	has	done	this
 we l.	The	whole	thing’s	been	more	than	you	ever	could	have	dreamed	of.
 Talk	about	Cinna’s	clothes.	How	nice	the	people	are.	How	the	city	amazes
 you.	If	you	won’t	talk	about	yourself,	at	least	compliment	the	audience.
 Just	keep	turning	it	back	around,	a l	right.	Gush.
vulnerable
I	give	up,	sweetheart.	Just	answer	the	questions	and	try	not	to	let
 the	audience	see	how	openly	you	despise	them.
Just	leave	it!
Just	leave	it	alone!
I	should	have	tried	to	save	you,
No,	it	was	wrong,
Close	your	eyes,
Can	I	open	my	eyes?
Yes,
Open	them.
Oh,	Cinna,
Thank	you.
Twirl	for	me,
So,	a l	ready	for	the	interview	then?
I’m	awful.	Haymitch	ca led	me	a	dead	slug.	No	matter	what	we	tried,
 I	couldn’t	do	it.	I	just	can’t	be	one	of	those	people	he	wants	me	to	be,
Why	don’t	you	just	be	yourself?
Myself?	That’s	no	good,	either.	Haymitch	says	I’m	su len	and
 hostile,
We l,	you	are	.	.	.	around	Haymitch,
I	don’t
 find	you	so.	The	prep	team	adores	you.	You	even	won	over	the
 Gamemakers.	And	as	for	the	citizens	of	the	Capitol,	we l,	they	can’t	stop
 talking	about	you.	No	one	can	help	but	admire	your	spirit.
Suppose,	when	you
 answer	the	questions,	you	think	you’re	addressing	a	friend	back	home.
 Who	would	your	best	friend	be?
Gale,
Only	it	doesn’t	make	sense,	Cinna.	I	would
 never	be	te ling	Gale	those	things	about	me.	He	already	knows	them.
What	about	me?	Could	you	think	of	me	as	a	friend?
I	think
 so,	but	—
I’ l	be	sitting	on	the	main	platform	with	the	other	stylists.	You’ l	be
 able	to	look	right	at	me.	When	you’re	asked	a	question,	find	me,	and
 answer	it	as	honestly	as	possible,
Even	if	what	I	think	is	horrible?
Especia ly	if	what	you	think	is	horrible,
You’ l	try	it?
Cinna	.	.	.
Remember,	they	already	love	you,
Just	be
 yourself.
Remember,	you’re	sti l	a	happy	pair.	So	act	like
 it.
I’m
 very	hard	to	catch,
And	if	they	can’t	catch
me,	they	can’t	ki l	me.	So	don’t	count	me	out.
I	wouldn’t	in	a	mi lion	years,
So,	Katniss,	the	Capitol	must	be	quite	a	change	from	District	Twelve.
 What’s	impressed	you	most	since	you	arrived	here?
What’s	impressed	you	most	since	you	arrived	here?
The	lamb	stew,
The	one	with	the	dried	plums?
Oh,	I	eat	it	by
the	bucketful.
It	doesn’t	show,	does	it?
Now,	Katniss,
When	you	came	out	in	the
 opening	ceremonies,	my	heart	actua ly	stopped.	What	did	you	think	of
 that	costume?
You	mean	after	I	got
 over	my	fear	of	being	burned	alive?
Yes.	Start	then,
I	thought Cinna	was
 bri liant	and	it	was	the	most	gorgeous	costume	I’d	ever	seen	and	I
 couldn’t	believe	I	was	wearing	it.	I	can’t	believe	I’m	wearing	this,	either.
I	mean,	look	at	it!
Oh,	do	that	again!
Don’t	stop!
I	have	to,	I’m	dizzy!
Don’t	worry,	I’ve	got
 you.	Can’t	have	you	fo lowing	in	your	mentor’s	footsteps.
It’s	a l	right,
She’s	safe	with	me.	So,
 how	about	that	training	score.	E-le-ven.	Give	us	a	hint	what	happened	in
 there.
Um	.	.	.
 a l	I	can	say,	is	I	think	it	was	a	first.
You’re	ki ling	us,
Details.	Details.
I’m	not	supposed	to	talk	about	it,	right?
She’s	not!
Thank	you,
Sorry.	My	lips	are	sealed.
Let’s	go	back	then,	to	the	moment	they	ca led	your	sister’s	name	at
 the	reaping,
And	you	volunteered.
 Can	you	te l	us	about	her?
Her	name’s	Prim.	She’s	just	twelve.	And	I	love
 her	more	than	anything.
What	did	she	say	to	you?	After	the	reaping?
She	asked	me	to	try	rea ly
 hard	to	win.
And	what	did	you	say?
I	swore	I	would.
I	bet	you	did,
Sorry	we’re	out	of	time.	Best	of	luck,	Katniss	Everdeen,	tribute	from
 District	Twelve.
Te l	me,	do	I	sti l	sme l	like	roses?
Handsome	lad	like	you.	There	must	be	some	special	girl.	Come	on,
 what’s	her	name?
We l,	there is this	one	girl.	I’ve had	a	crush	on	her	ever
 since	I	can	remember.	But	I’m	pretty	sure	she	didn’t	know	I	was	alive	until
 the	reaping.
She	have	another	fe low?
I	don’t	know,	but	a	lot	of	boys	like	her,
So,	here’s	what	you	do.	You	win,	you	go	home.	She	can’t	turn	you
 down	then,	eh?
I	don’t	think	it’s	going	to	work	out.	Winning	.	.	.	won’t	help	in	my
 case,
Why	ever	not?
Because	.	.	. because	.	.	.
 she	came	here	with	me.
THE GAMES
Oh,	that	is	a	piece	of	bad	luck,
It’s	not	good,
We l,	I	don’t	think	any	of	us	can	blame	you.	It’d	be	hard	not	to	fa l
 for	that	young	lady,
She	didn’t	know?
Not	until	now.
Wouldn’t	you	love	to	pu l	her	back	out	here	and	get	a	response?
Sadly,	rules	are
 rules,	and	Katniss	Everdeen’s	time	has	been	spent.	We l,	best	of	luck	to
 you,	Peeta	Me lark,	and	I	think	I	speak	for	a l	of	Panem	when	I	say	our
 hearts	go	with	yours.
Thank	you
What	was	that	for?
You	had	no	right!	No	right	to	go	saying	those	things	about	me!
What’s	going	on?
Did
 you	fa l?
After	she	shoved	me,
Shoved	him?
This	was	your	idea,	wasn’t	it?	Turning	me	into	some	kind	of	fool	in
 front	of	the	entire	country?
It	was	my	idea,
Haymitch	just	helped	me	with	it.
Yes,	Haymitch	is	very	helpful.	To	you!
You are a	fool,
Do	you	think	he	hurt	you?
 That	boy	just	gave	you	something	you	could	never	achieve	on	your	own.
He	made	me	look	weak!
He	made	you	look	desirable!	And	let’s	face	it,	you	can	use	a l	the
 help	you	can	get	in	that	department.	You	were	about	as	romantic	as	dirt
 until	he	said	he	wanted	you.	Now	they	a l	do.	You’re	a l	they’re	talking
 about.	The	star-crossed	lovers	from	District	Twelve!
But	we’re	not	star-crossed	lovers!
Who
 cares?	It’s	a l	a	big	show.	It’s	a l	how	you’re	perceived.	The	most	I	could
 say	about	you	after	your	interview	was	that	you	were	nice	enough,
 although	that	in	itself	was	a	sma l	miracle.	Now	I	can	say	you’re	a
 heartbreaker.	Oh,	oh,	oh,	how	the	boys	back	home	fa l	longingly	at	your
 feet.	Which	do	you	think	wi l	get	you	more	sponsors?
He’s	right,	Katniss.
I	should	have	been	told,	so	I	didn’t	look
 so	stupid.
No,	your	reaction	was	perfect.	If	you’d	known,	it	wouldn’t	have	read
 as	real,
She’s	just	worried	about	her	boyfriend,
I	don’t	have	a
 boyfriend.
Whatever,
But	I	bet	he’s	smart	enough	to	know	a	bluff
 when	he	sees	it.	Besides you didn’t	say	you	loved me. So	what	does	it
 matter?
After	he	said	he	loved	me,	did	you	think I	could	be	in love	with	him,
 too?
I	did,
The	way	you	avoided looking at	the	cameras,	the
 blush.
You’re	golden,	sweetheart.	You’re	going	to	have	sponsors	lined	up
 around	the	block,
I’m	sorry	I	shoved	you.
Doesn’t	matter,
Although	it’s	technica ly	i legal.
Are	your	hands	okay?
They’ l	be	a l	right,
Come	on,	let’s	eat,
I wouldn’t	be	at	a l
 surprised	if	I	fina ly	get	promoted	to	a	decent	district	next	year!
Any	final	words	of	advice?
When	the	gong	sounds,	get	the	he l	out	of	there.	You’re neither	of
 you	up	to	the	blood	bath	at	the	Cornucopia. Just clear	out,	put	as	much
 distance	as	you	can	between	yourselves	and	the	others,	and	find	a	source
 of	water,
Got	it?
And	after	that?
Stay	alive,
You	should	be	getting	some	sleep.
I	didn’t	want	to	miss	the	party.	It’s	for	us,	after	a l.
Are	they	in	costumes?
Who	could	te l?
With	a l	the	crazy	clothes	they
 wear	here.	Couldn’t	sleep,	either?
Couldn’t	turn	my	mind	off,
Thinking	about	your	family?
No,
A l	I	can	do	is	wonder	about	tomorrow.
 Which	is	pointless,	of	course.
I	rea ly	am	sorry
 about	your	hands.
It	doesn’t	matter,	Katniss,
I’ve	never	been	a	contender	in
 these	Games	anyway.
That’s	no	way	to	be	thinking,
Why	not?	It’s	true.	My	best	hope	is	to	not	disgrace	myself	and	.	.	.
And	what?
I	don’t	know	how	to	say	it	exactly.	Only	.	.	.	I	want	to	die	as	myself.
 Does	that	make	any	sense?
I	don’t	want	them	to	change	me	in	there.	Turn	me
 into	some	kind	of	monster	that	I’m	not.
Do	you	mean	you	won’t	ki l	anyone?
No,	when	the	time	comes,	I’m	sure	I’ l	ki l	just	like	everybody	else.	I
 can’t	go	down	without	a	fight.	Only	I	keep	wishing	I	could	think	of	a	way	to
.	.	.	to	show	the	Capitol	they	don’t	own	me.	That	I’m	more	than	just	a	piece
 in	their	Games,
But	you’re	not,
None	of	us	are.	That’s	how	the	Games	work.
Okay,	but	within	that	framework,	there’s	sti l	you,	there’s	sti l	me,
Don’t	you	see?
A	little.	Only	.	.	.	no	offense,	but	who	cares,	Peeta?
I	do.	I	mean,	what	else	am	I	a lowed	to	care	about	at	this	point?
Care	about	what	Haymitch	said.	About	staying
 alive.
Okay.	Thanks	for	the	tip,
 sweetheart.
Look,	if	you	want	to	spend	the	last	hours	of	your	life
 planning	some	noble	death	in	the	arena,	that’s	your	choice.	I	want	to
 spend	mine	in	District	Twelve.
Wouldn’t	surprise	me	if	you	do,
Give	my	mother	my
 best	when	you	make	it	back,	wil	you?
Count	on	it,
s	faced	with	life	and	death.	He
s	heart	after	they
d	ki led	before	he	ate	them.	There	are	no	rules	in
 the	arena,	but	cannibalism	doesn
t	see	Peeta	in	the	morning.	Cinna	comes	to	me	before	dawn,
 gives	me	a	simple	shift	to	wear,	and	guides	me	to	the	roof.	My	final
 dressing	and	preparations	wi l	be	alone	in	the	catacombs	under	the	arena
 itself.	A	hovercraft	appears	out	of	thin	air,	just	like	the	one	did	in	the
 woods	the	day	I	saw	the	redheaded	Avox	girl	captured,	and	a	ladder
 drops	down.	I	place	my	hands	and	feet	on	the	lower	rungs	and	instantly
 it
m	frozen.	Some	sort	of	current	glues	me	to	the	ladder	while	I
m	sti l	stuck	when	a	woman	in
 a	white	coat	approaches	me	carrying	a	syringe.	"This	is	just	your	tracker,
 Katniss.	The	sti ler	you	are,	the	more	efficiently	I	can	place	it,"	she	says.
 Sti l?	I
t	prevent	me	from	feeling	the	sharp	stab
 of	pain	as	the	needle	inserts	the	metal	tracking	device	deep	under	the	skin
 on	the	inside	of	my	forearm.	Now	the	Gamemakers	wil	always	be	able	to
 trace	my	whereabouts	in	the	arena.	Wouldn’t	want	to	lose	a	tribute.
 As	soon	as	the	tracker’s	in	place,	the	ladder	releases	me.	The	woman
 disappears	and	Cinna	is	retrieved	from	the	roof,	An	Avox	boy	comes	in
 and	directs	us	to	a	room	where	breakfast	has	been	laid	out.	Despite	the
 tension	in	my	stomach, I eat	as	much	as I can,	although	none	of	the
 delectable	food	makes	any	impression	on	me.	I’m	so	nervous,	I	could	be
 eating	coal	dust.	The	one	thing	that	distracts	me	at	a l	is	the	view	from	the
 windows	as	we	sail	over	the	city	and	then	to	the	wilderness	beyond.	This
 is	what	birds	see.	Only	they’re	free	and	safe.	The	very	opposite	of	me.
 The	ride	lasts	about	half	an	hour	before	the	windows	black	out,
 suggesting	that	we’re	nearing	the	arena.	The	hovercraft	lands	and	Cinna
 and	I	go	back	to	the	ladder,	only	this	time	it	leads	down	into	a	tube
 underground,	into	the	catacombs	that	lie	beneath	the	arena.	We	fo low
 instructions	to	my	destination,	a	chamber	for	my	preparation.	In	the
Capitol,	they	ca l	it	the	Launch	Room.	In	the	districts,	it’s referred	to	as	the
 Stockyard.	The	place	animals	go	before	slaughter.
 Everything	is	brand-new,	I	wi l	be	the	first	and	only	tribute	to	use
 this	Launch	Room.	The	arenas	are	historic	sites,	preserved	after	the
 Games.	Popular	destinations	for	Capitol	residents	to	visit,	to	vacation.	Go
 for	a	month,	re-watch	the	Games,	tour	the	catacombs,	visit	the	sites	where
 the	deaths	took	place.	You	can	even	take	part	in	reenactments.	They	say
 the	food	is	exce lent.
 I	struggle	to	keep	my	breakfast	down	as	I	shower	and	clean	my
 teeth.	Cinna	does	my	hair	in	my	simple	trademark	braid	down	my	back.
 Then	the	clothes	arrive,	the	same	for	every	tribute.	Cinna	has	had	no	say
 in	my	outfit,	does	not	even	know	what	wil	be	in	the	package,	but	he	helps
 me	dress	in	the	undergarments,	simple	tawny	pants,	light	green	blouse,
 sturdy	brown	belt,	and	thin,	hooded	black	jacket	that	fa ls	to	my	thighs.
 “The	material	in	the	jacket’s	designed	to	reflect	body	heat.	Expect	some
 cool	nights,”	he	says.
 The	boots,	worn	over	skintight	socks,	are	better	than	I	could	have
 hoped	for.	Soft	leather	not	unlike	my	ones	at	home.	These	have	a	narrow
 flexible	rubber	sole	with	treads	though.	Good	for	running.
 I	think	I’m	finished	when	Cinna	pu ls	the	gold	mockingjay	pin	from
 his	pocket.	I	had	completely	forgotten	about	it.
 “Where	did	you	get	that?”	I	ask.
 “Off	the	green	outfit	you	wore	on	the	train,”	he	says.	I	remember
 now	taking	it	off	my	mother’s	dress,	pinning	it	to	the	shirt.	“It’s	your
 district	token,	right?”	I	nod	and	he	fastens	it	on	my	shirt.	“It	barely	cleared
 the	review	board.	Some	thought	the	pin	could	be	used	as	a	weapon,	giving
 you	an	unfair	advantage.	But	eventua ly,	they	let	it	through,”	says	Cinna.
 “They	eliminated	a	ring	from	that	District	One	girl,	though.	If	you	twisted
 the	gemstone,	a	spike	popped	out.	Poisoned	one.	She	claimed	she	had	no
 knowledge	the	ring	transformed	and	there	was	no	way	to	prove	she	did.
 But	she	lost	her	token.	There,	you’re	a l	set.	Move	around.	Make	sure
everything	feels	comfortable.”
 I	walk,	run	in	a	circle,	swing	my	arms	about.	“Yes,	it’s	fine.	Fits
 perfectly.”
 “Then	there’s	nothing	to	do	but	wait	for	the	ca l,”	says	Cinna.	“Unless
 you	think	you	could	eat	any	more?”
 I	turn	down	food	but	accept	a	glass	of	water	that	I	take	tiny	sips	of	as
 we	wait	on	a	couch.	I	don’t	want	to	chew	on	my	nails	or	lips,	so	I	find
 myself	gnawing	on	the	inside	of	my	cheek.	It	sti l	hasn’t	fu ly	healed	from	a
 few	days	ago.	Soon	the	taste	of	blood	fi ls	my	mouth.
 Nervousness	seeps	into	terror	as	I	anticipate	what	is	to	come.	I	could
 be	dead,	flat-out	dead,	in	an	hour.	Not	even.	My	fingers	obsessively	trace
 the	hard	little	lump	on	my	forearm	where	the	woman	injected	the	tracking
 device.	I	press	on	it,	even	though	it	hurts,	I	press	on	it	so	hard	a	sma l
 bruise	begins	to	form.
 “Do	you	want	to	talk,	Katniss?”	Cinna	asks.
 I	shake	my	head	but	after	a	moment	hold	out	my	hand	to	him.	Cinna
 encloses	it	in	both	of	his.	And	this	is	how	we	sit	until	a	pleasant	female
 voice	announces	it’s	time	to	prepare	for	launch.
 Sti l	clenching	one	of	Cinna’s	hands,	I	walk	over	and	stand	on	the
 circular	metal	plate.	“Remember	what	Haymitch	said.	Run,	find	water.	The
 rest	wi l	fo low,”	he	says.	I	nod.	“And	remember	this.	I’m	not	a lowed	to
 bet,	but	if	I	could,	my	money	would	be	on	you.”
 “Truly?”	I	whisper.
 “Truly,”	says	Cinna.	He	leans	down	and	kisses	me	on	the	forehead.
 “Good	luck,	girl	on	fire.”	And	then	a	glass	cylinder	is	lowering	around	me,
 breaking	our	handhold,	cutting	him	off	from	me.	He	taps	his	fingers	under
 his	chin.	Head	high.
 I	lift	my	chin	and	stand	as	straight	as	I	can.	The	cylinder	begins	to
rise.	For	maybe	fifteen	seconds,	I’m	in	darkness	and	then	I	can	feel	the
 metal	plate	pushing	me	out	of	the	cylinder,	into	the	open	air.	For	a
 moment,	my	eyes	are	dazzled	by	the	bright	sunlight	and	I’m	conscious
 only	of	a	strong	wind	with	the	hopeful	sme l	of	pine	trees.
 Then	I	hear	the	legendary	announcer,	Claudius	Templesmith,	as	his
 voice	booms	a l	around	me.
 “Ladies	and	gentlemen,	let	the	Seventy-fourth	Hunger	Games	begin!”
Chapter 11
 Sixty	seconds.	That’s	how	long	we’re	required	to	stand	on	our	metal
 circles	before	the	sound	of	a	gong	releases	us.	Step	off	before	the	minute
 is	up,	and	land	mines	blow	your	legs	off.	Sixty	seconds	to	take	in	the	ring
 of	tributes	a l	equidistant	from	the	Cornucopia,	a	giant	golden	horn
 shaped	like	a	cone	with	a	curved	tail,	the	mouth	of	which	is	at	least	twenty
 feet	high,	spi ling	over	with	the	things	that	wi l	give	us	life	here	in	the
 arena.	Food,	containers	of	water,	weapons,	medicine,	garments,	fire
 starters.	Strewn	around	the	Cornucopia	are	other	supplies,	their	value
 decreasing	the	farther	they	are	from	the	horn.	For	instance,	only	a	few
 steps	from	my	feet	lays	a	three-foot	square	of	plastic.	Certainly	it	could	be
 of	some	use	in	a	downpour.	But	there	in	the	mouth,	I	can	see	a	tent	pack
 that	would	protect	from	almost	any	sort	of	weather.	If	I	had	the	guts	to	go
 in	and	fight	for	it	against	the	other	twenty-three	tributes.	Which	I	have
 been	instructed	not	to	do.
 We’re	on	a	lat,	open	stretch	of	ground.	A	plain	of	hard-packed	dirt.
 Behind	the	tributes	across	from	me,	I	can	see	nothing,	indicating	either	a
 steep	downward	slope	or	even	cliff.	To	my	right	lies	a	lake.	To	my	left	and
 back,	sparse	piney	woods.	This	is	where	Haymitch	would	want	me	to	go.
Immediately.
 I	hear	his	instructions	in	my	head.	“Just	clear	out,	put	as	much
 distance	as	you	can	between	yourselves	and	the	others,	and	find	a	source
 of	water.”
 But	it’s	tempting,	so	tempting,	when	I	see	the	bounty	waiting	there
 before	me.	And	I	know	that	if	I	don’t	get	it,	someone	else	wi l.	That	the
 Career	Tributes	who	survive	the	bloodbath	wi l	divide	up	most	of	these
 life-sustaining	spoils.	Something	catches	my	eye.	There,	resting	on	a
 mound	of	blanket	ro ls,	is	a	silver	sheath	of	arrows	and	a	bow,	already
 strung,	just	waiting	to	be	engaged. That’s	mine, I	think. It’s	meant	for	me.
 I’m	fast.	I	can	sprint	faster	than	any	of	the	girls	in	our	school
 although	a	couple	can	beat	me	in	distance	races.	But	this	forty-yard
 length,	this	is	what	I	am	built	for.	I	know	I	can	get	it,	I	know	I	can	reach	it
 first,	but	then	the	question	is	how	quickly	can	I	get	out	of	there?	By	the
 time	I’ve	scrambled	up	the	packs	and	grabbed	the	weapons,	others	wi l
 have	reached	the	horn,	and	one	or	two	I	might	be	able	to	pick	off,	but	say
 there’s	a	dozen,	at	that	close	range,	they	could	take	me	down	with	the
 spears	and	the	clubs.	Or	their	own	powerful	fists.
 Sti l,	I	won’t	be	the	only	target.	I’m	betting	many	of	the	other	tributes
 would	pass	up	a	sma ler	girl,	even	one	who	scored	an	eleven	in	training,
 to	take	out	their	more	fierce	adversaries.
 Haymitch	has	never	seen	me	run.	Maybe	if	he	had	he’d	te l	me	to	go
 for	it.	Get	the	weapon.	Since	that’s	the	very	weapon	that	might	be	my
 salvation.	And	I	only	see	one	bow	in	that	whole	pile.	I	know	the	minute
 must	be	almost	up	and	wil	have	to	decide	what	my	strategy	wil	be	and	I
 find	myself	positioning	my	feet	to	run,	not	away	into	the	stir	rounding
 forests	but	toward	the	pile,	toward	the	bow.	When	suddenly	I	notice
 Peeta,	he’s	about	five	tributes	to	my	right,	quite	a	fair	distance,	sti l	I	can
 te l	he’s	looking	at	me	and	I	think	he	might	be	shaking	his	head.	But	the
 sun’s	in	my	eyes,	and	while	I’m	puzzling	over	it	the	gong	rings	out.
 And	I’ve	missed	it!	I’ve	missed	my	chance!	Because	those	extra
couple	of	seconds	I’ve	lost	by	not	being	ready	are	enough	to	change	my
 mind	about	going	in.	My	feet	shuffle	for	a	moment,	confused	at	the
 direction	my	brain	wants	to	take	and	then	I	lunge	forward,	scoop	up	the
 sheet	of	plastic	and	a	loaf	of	bread.	The	pickings	are	so	sma l	and	I’m	so
 angry	with	Peeta	for	distracting	me	that	I	sprint	in	twenty	yards	to
 retrieve	a	bright	orange	backpack	that	could	hold	anything	because	I	can’t
 stand	leaving	with	virtua ly	nothing.
 A	boy,	I	think	from	District	9,	reaches	the	pack	at	the	same	time	I	do
 and	for	a	brief	time	we	grapple	for	it	and	then	he	coughs,	splattering	my
 face	with	blood.	I	stagger	back,	repulsed	by	the	warm,	sticky	spray.	Then
 the	boy	slips	to	the	ground.	That’s	when	I	see	the	knife	in	his	back.
 Already	other	tributes	have	reached	the	Cornucopia	and	are	spreading
 out	to	attack.	Yes,	the	girl	from	District	2,	ten	yards	away,	running	toward
 me,	one	hand	clutching	a	half-dozen	knives.	I’ve	seen	her	throw	in
 training.	She	never	misses.	And	I’m	her	next	target.
 Al	the	general	fear	I’ve	been	feeling	condenses	into	at	immediate
 fear	of	this	girl,	this	predator	who	might	ki l	me	in	seconds.	Adrenaline
 shoots	through	me	and	I	sling	the	pack	over	one	shoulder	and	run	fu l
speed	for	the	woods.	I	can	hear	the	blade	whistling	toward	me	and
 reflexively	hike	the	pack	up	to	protect	my	head.	The	blade	lodges	in	the
 pack.	Both	straps	on	my	shoulders	now,	I	make	for	the	trees.	Somehow	I
 know	the	girl	wi l	not	pursue	me.	That	she’ l	be	drawn	back	into	the
 Cornucopia	before	a l	the	good	stuff	is	gone.	A	grin	crosses	my	face.
 Thanks	for	the	knife, I	think.
 At	the	edge	of	the	woods	I	turn	for	one	instant	to	survey	the	field.
 About	a	dozen	or	so	tributes	are	hacking	away	at	one	another	at	the	horn.
 Several	lie	dead	already	on	the	ground.	Those	who	have	taken	flight	are
 disappearing	into	the	trees	or	into	the	void	opposite	me.	I	continue
 running	until	the	woods	have	hidden	me	from	the	other	tributes	then
 slow	into	a	steady	jog	that	I	think	I	can	maintain	for	a	while.	For	the	next
 few	hours,	I	alternate	between	jogging	and	walking,	putting	as	much
 distance	as	I	can	between	myself	and	my	competitors.	I	lost	my	bread
during	the	struggle	with	the	boy	from	District	9	but	managed	to	stuff	my
 plastic	in	my	sleeve	so	as	I	walk	I	fold	it	neatly	and	tuck	it	 into	a	pocket.	I
 also	free	the	knife	—	it’s	a	fine	one	with	a	long	sharp	blade,	serrated	near
 the	handle,	which	wi l	make	it	handy	for	sawing	through	things	—	and
 slide	it	into	my	belt.	I	don’t	dare	stop	to	examine	the	contents	of	the	pack
 yet.	I	just	keep	moving,	pausing	only	to	check	for	pursuers.
 I	can	go	a	long	time.	I	know	that	from	my	days	in	the	woods.	But	I
 wi l	need	water.	That	was	Haymitch’s	second	instruction,	and	since	I	sort
 of	botched	the	first,	I	keep	a	sharp	eye	out	for	any	sign	of	it.	No	luck.
 The	woods	begin	to	evolve,	and	the	pines	are	intermixed	with	a
 variety	of	trees,	some	I	recognize,	some	completely	foreign	to	me.	At	one
 point,	I	hear	a	noise	and	pu l	my	knife,	thinking	I	may	have	to	defend
 myself,	but	I’ve	only	startled	a	rabbit.	“Good	to	see	you,”	I	whisper.	If
 there’s	one	rabbit,	there	could	be	hundreds	just	waiting	to	be	snared.
 The	ground	slopes	down.	I	don’t	particularly	like	this.	Va leys	make
 me	feel	trapped.	I	want	to	be	high,	like	in	the	hi ls	around	District	12,
 where	I	can	see	my	enemies	approaching.	But	I	have	no	choice	but	to
 keep	going.
 Funny	though,	I	don’t	feel	too	bad.	The	days	of	gorging	myself	have
 paid	off.	I’ve	got	staying	power	even	though	I’m	short	on	sleep.	Being	in
 the	woods	is	rejuvenating.	I’m	glad	for	the	solitude,	even	though	it’s	an
 i lusion,	because	I’m	probably	on-screen	right	now.	Not	consistently	but
 off	and	on.	There	are	so	many	deaths	to	show	the	first	day	that	a	tribute
 trekking	through	the	woods	isn’t	much	to	look	at.	But	they’ l	show	me
 enough	to	let	people	know	I’m	alive,	uninjured	and	on	the	move.	One	of
 the	heaviest	days	of	betting	is	the	opening,	when	the	initial	casualties
 come	in.	But	that	can’t	compare	to	what	happens	as	the	field	shrinks	to	a
 handful	of	players.
 It’s	late	afternoon	when	I	begin	to	hear	the	cannons.	Each	shot
 represents	a	dead	tribute.	The	fighting	must	have	fina ly	stopped	at	the
 Cornucopia.	They	never	co lect	the	bloodbath	bodies	until	the	ki lers	have
dispersed.	On	the	opening	day,	they	don’t	even	fire	the	cannons	until	the
 initial	fighting’s	over	because	it’s	too	hard	to	keep	track	of	the	fatalities.	I
 a low	myself	to	pause,	panting,	as	I	count	the	shots.	One	.	.	.	two	.	.	.	three	.	.
 .	on	and	on	until	they	reach	eleven.	Eleven	dead	in	a l.	Thirteen	left	to	play.
 My	fingernails	scrape	at	the	dried	blood	the	boy	from	District	9	coughed
 into	my	face.	He’s	gone,	certainly.	I	wonder	about	Peeta.	Has	he	lasted
 through	the	day?	I’ l	know	in	a	few	hours.	When	they	project	the	dead’s
 images	into	the	sky	for	the	rest	of	us	to	see.
 Al	of	a	sudden,	I’m	overwhelmed	by	the	thought	that	Peeta	may	be
 already	lost,	bled	white,	co lected,	and	in	the	process	of	being	transported
 back	to	the	Capitol	to	be	cleaned	up,	redressed,	and	shipped	in	a	simple
 wooden	box	back	to	District	12.	No	longer	here.	Heading	home.	I	try	hard
 to	remember	if	I	saw	him	once	the	action	started.	But	the	last	image	I	can
 conjure	up	is	Peeta	shaking	his	head	as	the	gong	rang	out.
 Maybe	it’s	better,	if	he’s	gone	already.	He	had	no	confidence	he
 could	win.	And	I	wi l	not	end	up	with	the	unpleasant	task	of	ki ling	him.
 Maybe	it’s	better	if	he’s	out	of	this	for	good.
 I	slump	down	next	to	my	pack,	exhausted.	I	need	to	go	through	it
 anyway	before	night	fa ls.	See	what	I	have	to	work	with.	As	I	unhook	the
 straps,	I	can	feel	it’s	sturdily	made	although	a	rather	unfortunate	color.
 This	orange	wi l	practica ly	glow	in	the	dark.	I	make	a	mental	note	to
 camouflage	it	first	thing	tomorrow.
 I	flip	open	the	flap.	What	I	want	most,	right	at	this	moment,	is	water.
 Haymitch’s	directive	to	immediately	find	water	was	not	arbitrary.	I	won’t
 last	long	without	it.	For	a	few	days,	I’ l	be	able	to	function	with	unpleasant
 symptoms of	dehydration,	but	after	that	I
s	bone	dry.
No	water.	How	hard	would	it	have	been	for	them	to	fil	up	the	bottle?	I
 become	aware	of	the	dryness	in	my	throat	and	mouth,	the	cracks	in	my
 lips.	I
s	been	hot	and	I
s	the	only	water	source	in
 the	arena?	That	way	they
s	journey	from	where	I	sit	now,	a	much	harder	journey	with
 nothing	to	drink.	And	then,	even	if	I	reach	it,	it
m	about	to	panic	when	I
 remember	the	rabbit	I	startled	earlier	today.	It	has	to	drink,	too.	I	just
 have	to	find	out	where.
 Twilight	is	closing	in	and	I	am	i l	at	ease.	The	trees	are	too	thin	to	offer
 much	concealment.	The	layer	of	pine	needles	that	muffles	my	footsteps
 also	makes	tracking	animals	harder	when	I	need	their	trails	to	find	water.
 And	I
Come	and	get	me!
Twelve	down	and	eleven	to	go!
Better	clear	out	so	they	can	get	the	body	before	it	starts	stinking.
Shouldn’t	we	have	heard	a	cannon	by	now?
I’d	say	yes.	Nothing	to	prevent	them	from	going	in	immediately.
Unless	she	isn’t	dead.
She’s	dead.	I	stuck	her	myself.
Then	where’s	the	cannon?
Someone	should	go	back.	Make	sure	the	job’s	done.
Yeah,	we	don’t	want	to	have	to	track	her	down	twice.
I	said	she’s	dead!
We’re
 wasting	time!	I’ l	go	finish	her	and	let’s	move	on!
Go	on,	then,	Lover	Boy,
See	for
 yourself.
Why	don’t	we	just	ki l	him	now	and	get	it	over	with?
Let	him	tag	along.	What’s	the	harm?	And	he’s	handy	with	that
 knife.
Besides,	he’s	our	best	chance	of	finding	her.
her
Why?	You	think	she	bought	into	that	sappy	romance	stuff?
She	might	have.	Seemed	pretty	simpleminded	to	me.	Every	time	I
 think	about	her	spinning	around	in	that	dress,	I	want	to	puke.
Wish	we	knew	how	she	got	that	eleven.
Bet	you	Lover	Boy	knows.
Was	she	dead?
No.	But	she	is	now,
Ready
 to	move	on?
Move,
Water.
Katniss,	the	girl	who	was	on	fire.
How’s	everything	with	you?
We l	enough,
Yourself?
It’s	been	a	bit	warm	for	my	taste,
The	air’s	better	up	here.	Why	don’t	you	come
 on	up?
Think	I	wi l,
Here,	take	this,	Cato,
No,
I’ l	do	better	with	my
 sword.
Oh,	let	her	stay	up	there.	It’s	not	like
 she’s	going	anywhere.	We’ l	deal	with	her	in	the	morning.
Oh,	Haymitch,
Thank	you.
To	the	lake!	To	the	lake!
Do	this!
What	are	you	sti l	doing	here?
Are	you
mad?
Get	up!	Get	up!
Run!
Run!
We	could	do	it,	you	know.
What?
Leave	the	district.	Run	off.	Live	in	the	woods.	You	and	I,	we	could	make
 it.
You	know,	they’re	not	the	only	ones	who	can	form	a liances,
You	want	me	for	an	a ly?
Why	not?	You	saved	me	with	those	tracker	jackers.	You’re	smart
 enough	to	sti l	be	alive.	And	I	can’t	seem	to	shake	you	anyway,
You	hungry?
Come	on	then,	I’ve	had	two	ki ls	today.
I	can	fix	your	stings.
Can	you?
How?
Where’d	you	find
 those?
Just	around.	We	a l	carry	them	when	we	work	in	the	orchards.	They
 left	a	lot	of	nests	there,
There	are	a	lot	here,	too.
That’s	right.	You’re	District	Eleven.	Agriculture,
Orchards,
 huh?	That	must	be	how	you	can	fly	around	the	trees	like	you’ve	got
 wings.
We l,	come	on,	then.	Fix	me	up.
Ohhh.
Lucky	you	had	the	sense	to	pu l	the	stingers	out
or	you’d	be	a	lot	worse.
Do	my	neck!	Do	my	cheek!
I’ve	got	something	for	that.
You	have	good	sponsors,
Have	you	gotten	anything	yet?
You
 wi l,	though.	Watch.	The	closer	we	get	to	the	end,	the	more	people	wi l
 realize	how	clever	you	are.
You	weren’t	joking,	about	wanting	me	for	an	a ly?
No,	I	meant	it,
Okay,
It’s	a	deal.
Oh,
I’ve	never	had	a	whole	leg	to	myself
 before.
Take	the
other,
Rea ly?
Take	whatever	you	want.	Now	that	I’ve	got	a	bow	and	arrows,	I	can
 get	more.	Plus	I’ve	got	snares.	I	can	show	you	how	to	set	them,
Oh,	take	it,
It	wi l	only	keep	a	few	days	anyway,	and	we’ve	got	the	whole
 bird	plus	the	rabbit.
I’d	have	thought,	in	District	Eleven,	you’d	have	a	bit	more	to	eat
 than	us.	You	know,	since	you	grow	the	food,
Oh,	no,	we’re	not	a lowed	to	eat	the	crops.
They	arrest	you	or	something?
They	whip	you	and	make	everyone	else	watch,
The
 mayor’s	very	strict	about	it.
Do	you	get	a l	the	coal	you	want?
No,
Just	what	we	buy	and	whatever	we	track	in	on	our
 boots.
They	feed	us	a	bit	extra	during	harvest,	so	that	people	can	keep
 going	longer,
Don’t	you	have	to	be	in	school?
Not	during	harvest.	Everyone	works	then,
You	sure	this	is	safe?
Oh,	yes,	we	have	them	back	home.	I’ve	been	eating	them	for	days,
I	know	it’s	not	much,
but	I	had	to	get	away	from	the	Cornucopia
 fast.
You	did	just	right,
How	did	you	get	those?
In	my	pack.	They’ve	been	useless	so	far.	They	don’t	block	the	sun
 and	they	make	it	harder	to	see,
These	aren’t	for	sun,	they’re	for	darkness,
Sometimes,	when	we	harvest	through	the	night,	they’ l	pass	out	a	few
 pairs	to	those	of	us	highest	in	the	trees.	Where	the	torchlight	doesn’t
reach.	One	time,	this	boy	Martin,	he	tried	to	keep	his	pair.	Hid	it	in	his
 pants.	They	ki led	him	on	the	spot.
They	ki led	a	boy	for	taking	these?
Yes,	and	everyone	knew	he	was	no	danger.	Martin	wasn’t	right	in
 the	head.	I	mean,	he	sti l	acted	like	a	three-year-old.	He	just	wanted	the
 glasses	to	play	with,
So	what	do	these	do?
They	let	you	see	in	complete	darkness,
Try	them	tonight
 when	the	sun	goes	down.
Where	do	you	sleep?
In	the	trees?
In	just
 your	jacket?
I	have	these	for	my	hands.
You	can	share	my	sleeping
 bag	if	you	want.	We’ l	both	easily	fit.
Rue,	I	only	woke	up	today.	How	many	nights	did	I	miss?
Two,
The	girls	from	Districts	One	and	Four	are	dead.
 There’s	ten	of	us	left.
Something	strange	happened.	At	least,	I	think	it	did.	It	might	have
 been	the	tracker	jacker	venom	making	me	imagine	things,
You
 know	the	boy	from	my	district?	Peeta?	I	think	he	saved	my	life.	But	he	was
 with	the	Careers.
He’s	not	with	them	now,
I’ve	spied	on	their	base	camp
 by	the	lake.	They	made	it	back	before	they	co lapsed	from	the	stingers.
 But	he’s	not	there.	Maybe	he	did	save	you	and	had	to	run.
If	he	did,	it	was	a l	probably	just	part	of	his
 act.	You	know,	to	make	people	think	he’s	in	love	with	me.
Oh,
I	didn’t	think	that	was	an	act.
Course	it	is,
He	worked	it	out	with	our	mentor.
Let’s	try	out	these	glasses.
I	wonder	who	else	got	a	pair	of	these,
The	Careers	have	two	pairs.	But	they’ve	got	everything	down	by	the
 lake,
And	they’re	so	strong.
We’re	strong,	too,
Just	in	a	different	way.
You	are.	You	can	shoot,
What	can	I	do?
You	can	feed	yourself.	Can	they?
They	don’t	need	to.	They	have	a l	those	supplies,
Say	they	didn’t.	Say	the	supplies	were	gone.	How	long	would	they
 last?
I	mean,	it’s	the	Hunger	Games,	right?
But,	Katniss,	they’re	not	hungry,
No,	they’re	not.	That’s	the	problem,
I	think	we’re	going	to	have	to	fix	that,	Rue.
Who	do	you	think	that	was?
I	don’t	know.	It	could	have	been	any	of	the	others,
I
 guess	we’ l	know	tonight.
Who’s	left	again?
The	boy	from	District	One.	Both	tributes	from	Two.	The	boy	from
 Three.	Thresh	and	me.	And	you	and	Peeta,
That’s	eight.	Wait,
 and	the	boy	from	Ten,	the	one	with	the	bad	leg.	He	makes	nine.
I	wonder	how	that	last	one	died,
No	te ling.	But	it’s	good	for	us.	A	death	should	hold	the	crowd	for	a
 bit.	Maybe	we’ l	have	time	to	do	something	before	the	Gamemakers	decide
 things	have	been	moving	too	slowly,
What’s	in	your	hands?
Breakfast,
What	kind	are	those?
Not	sure.	There’s	a	marshy	area	over	that	way.	Some	kind	of
 waterbird,
Ready	to	do	it?
Do	what?
Today	we	take	out	the	Careers’	food,
Rea ly?	How?
No	idea.	Come	on,	we’ l	figure	out	a	plan	while	we	hunt,
The	boy	from	District	Three?
He’s	working	with	them?
Yes,	he	stays	at	the	camp	fu l-time.	He	got	stung,	too,	when	they
 drew	the	tracker	jackers	in	by	the	lake,
I	guess	they	agreed	to
 let	him	live	if	he	acted	as	their	guard.	But	he’s	not	very	big.
What	weapons	does	he	have?
Not	much	that	I	could	see.	A	spear.	He	might	be	able	to	hold	a	few
 of	us	off	with	that,	but	Thresh	could	ki l	him	easily,
And	the	food’s	just	out	in	the	open?
Something’s
 not	quite	right	about	that	whole	setup.
I	know.	But	I	couldn’t	te l	what	exactly,
Katniss,	even	if
 you	could	get	to	the	food,	how	would	you	get	rid	of	it?
Burn	it.	Dump	it	in	the	lake.	Soak	it	in	fuel.
Eat	it!
Don’t	worry,	I’ l	think	of
 something.	Destroying	things	is	much	easier	than	making	them.
Music.
Music?
You	have	a	lot	of	time	for	that?
We	sing	at	home.	At	work,	too.	That’s	why	I	love	your	pin,
You	have	mockingjays?
Oh,	yes.	I	have	a	few	that	are	my	special	friends.	We	can	sing	back
 and	forth	for	hours.	They	carry	messages	for	me,
What	do	you	mean?
I’m	usua ly	up	highest,	so	I’m	the	first	to	see	the	flag	that	signals
 quitting	time.	There’s	a	special	little	song	I	do,
And	the
 mockingjays	spread	it	around	the	orchard.	That’s	how	everyone	knows	to
 knock	off,
They	can	be	dangerous	though,	if	you	get	too
 near	their	nests.	But	you	can’t	blame	them	for	that.
Here,	you	take	it.	It	has
 more	meaning	for	you	than	me.
Oh,	no,
I	like	to	see
 it	on	you.	That’s	how	I	decided	I	could	trust	you.	Besides,	I	have	this.
It’s	a	good
 luck	charm.
We l,	it’s	worked	so	far,
Maybe	you	should	just	stick	with	that.
What	about	you?	Won’t	you	be	cold?
Not	if	I	pick	up	another	bag	down	by	the	lake,
You	know,
 stealing	isn’t	i legal	here,
It	might	not	work.
 But	if	you	hear	the	mockingjays	singing	it,	you’ l	know	I’m	okay,	only	I
 can’t	get	back	right	away.
Are	there	many	mockingjays	here?
Haven’t	you	seen	them?	They’ve	got	nests	everywhere,
Okay,	then.	If	a l	goes	according	to	plan,	I’ l	see	you	for	dinner,
You	be	careful,
You,	too,
He’s	coming.	We	need	him	in	the	woods,	and	his	job’s	done	here
 anyway.	No	one	can	touch	those	supplies,
What	about	Lover	Boy?
I	keep	te ling	you,	forget	about	him.	I	know	where	I	cut	him.	It’s	a
 miracle	he	hasn’t	bled	to	death	yet.	At	any	rate,	he’s	in	no	shape	to	raid
 us,
Come	on,
When	we	find	her,	I	ki l	her
 in	my	own	way,	and	no	one	interferes.
It’s	mined,
Katniss!	Katniss!
Rue!
Rue!	I’m	coming!
Are	there	more?	Are	there	more?
You	blew	up	the	food?
Every	last	bit,
You	have	to	win,
I’m	going	to.	Going	to	win	for	both	of	us	now,
Don’t	go.
Course	not.	Staying	right	here,
Sing,
Only	I	keep	wishing	I
 could	think	of	a	way	to	.	.	.	to	show	the	Capital	they	don’t	own	me.	That	I’m
 more	than	just	a	piece	in	their	Games.
Bye,	Rue,
Good	and	safe,
We	don’t	have	to
 worry	about	her	now.
My	thanks
 to	the	people	of	District	Eleven,
Now	you
 have	to	sit	up,	Katniss.	Now	you	have	to	drink	water,	Katniss.
Now	you	have	to	sort	the	packs,
 Katniss.
How	different	can	it	be,	rea ly?
THE VICTOR
romance
Peeta!	Peeta!
You	here	to	finish	me	off,	sweetheart?
Peeta?
Where	are	you?
Peeta?
We l,	don’t	step	on	me.
Close	your	eyes	again,
I	guess	a l	those	hours
 decorating	cakes	paid	off.
Yes,	frosting.	The	final	defense	of	the	dying.
You’re	not	going	to	die,
Says	who?
Says	me.	We’re	on	the	same	team	now,	you	know,
So,	I	heard.	Nice	of	you	to	find	what’s	left	of	me.
Did	Cato	cut	you?
Left	leg.	Up	high,
Let’s	get	you	in	the	stream,	wash	you	off	so	I	can	see	what	kind	of
 wounds	you’ve	got,
Lean	down	a	minute	first,
Need	to	te l	you	something.
Remember,	we’re	madly	in	love,	so	it’s	a l	right	to	kiss	me	anytime	you
 feel	like	it.
Thanks,	I’ l	keep	it	in
 mind.
Look,	Peeta,	I’m	going	to	ro l	you	into	the	stream.	It’s	very	sha low
 here,	okay?
Exce lent,
On	three,
One,	two,	three!
Okay,	change	of	plans.	I’m	not	going	to	put	you	a l	the	way	in,
No	more	ro ling?
That’s	a l	done.	Let’s	get	you	cleaned	up.	Keep	an	eye	on	the	woods
 for	me,	okay?
Swa low	these,
You	must	be	hungry.
Not	rea ly.	It’s	funny,	I	haven’t	been	hungry	for	days,
Peeta,	we	need	to	get	some	food	in	you,
It’ l	just	come	right	back	up,
Thanks.	I’m	much	better,	rea ly.	Can	I
 sleep	now,	Katniss?
Soon,
I	need	to	look	at	your	leg	first.
Pretty	awful,	huh?
So-so.
You	should	see	some	of	the
 people	they	bring	my	mother	from	the	mines.
First	thing	is	to	clean	it	we l.
Why	don’t	we	give	it	some	air	and	then	.	.	.
And	then	you’ l	patch	it	up?
That’s	right,
In	the	meantime,	you	eat	these.
We’re	going	to	have	to	experiment	some,
Katniss?
How	about	that	kiss?
Something	wrong?
I	.	.	.	I’m	no	good	at	this.	I’m	not	my	mother.	I’ve	no	idea	what	I’m
 doing	and	I	hate	pus,
Euh!
Euuuh!
How	do	you	hunt?
Trust	me.	Ki ling	things	is	much	easier	than	this,
Although
 for	a l	I	know,	I	am	kiling	you.
Can	you	speed	it	up	a	little?
No.	Shut	up	and	eat	your	pears,
What	next,	Dr.	Everdeen?
Maybe	I’ l	put	some	of	the	burn	ointment	on	it.	I	think	it	helps	with
 infection	anyway.	And	wrap	it	up?
Here,	cover	yourself	with	this	and
 I’ l	wash	your	shorts.
Oh,	I	don’t	care	if	you	see	me,
You’re	just	like	the	rest	of	my	family,
I	care,	a l	right?
You	know,	you’re	kind	of	squeamish	for	such	a	lethal	person,
I	wish	I’d	let	you	give
 Haymitch	a	shower	after	a l.
What’s	he	sent	you	so	far?
Not	a	thing,
Why,
 did	you	get	something?
Burn	medicine,
Oh,	and	some	bread.
I	always	knew	you	were	his	favorite,
Please,	he	can’t	stand	being	in	the	same	room	with	me,
Because	you’re	just	alike,
Peeta,	we’ve	got
 to	go	now.
Go?
Go	where?
Away	from	here.	Downstream	maybe.	Somewhere	we	can	hide	you
 until	you’re	stronger,
Come	on.	You	can	do	this.
Katniss,
Thanks	for	finding	me.
You	would	have	found	me	if	you	could,
Yes.	Look,	if	I	don’t	make	it	back	—
Don’t	talk	like	that.	I	didn’t	drain	a l	that	pus	for	nothing,
I	know.	But	just	in	case	I	don’t	—
No,	Peeta,	I	don’t	even	want	to	discuss	it,
But	I	—
You’re	not	going	to	die.	I	forbid	it.	A l	right?
A l	right,
You’re	supposed	to	be	in
 love,	sweetheart.	The	boy’s	dying.	Give	me	something	I	can	work	with!
Peeta!
Peeta,	look	what	Haymitch	has	sent	you.
I	woke	up	and
 you	were	gone,
I	was	worried	about	you.
You	were	worried	about
 me?	Have	you	taken	a	look	at	yourself	lately?
I	thought	Cato	and	Clove	might	have	found	you.	They	like	to	hunt	at
 night,
Clove?	Which	one	is	that?
The	girl	from	District	Two.	She’s	sti l	alive,	right?
Yes,	there’s	just	them	and	us	and	Thresh	and	Foxface,
That’s
 what	I	nicknamed	the	girl	from	Five.	How	do	you	feel?
Better	than	yesterday.	This	is	an	enormous	improvement	over	the
 mud,
Clean	clothes	and	medicine	and	a	sleeping	bag	.	.	.	and
 you.
No	more	kisses	for	you	until	you’ve	eaten,
You	didn’t	sleep,
I’m	a l	right,
Sleep	now.	I’ l	keep	watch.	I’ l	wake	you	if	anything	happens,
Katniss,	you	can’t	stay	up	forever.
A l	right,
But	just	for	a	few	hours.	Then	you	wake
 me.
Go	to
 sleep,
Peeta,	you	were	supposed	to	wake	me	after	a	couple	of	hours,
For	what?	Nothing’s	going	on	here,
Besides	I	like
 watching	you	sleep.	You	don’t	scowl.	Improves	your	looks	a	lot.
We l,	there’s	more	swe ling,	but	the	pus	is	gone,
I	know	what	blood	poisoning	is,	Katniss,
Even	if	my
 mother	isn’t	a	healer.
You’re	just	going	to	have	to	outlast	the	others,	Peeta.	They’ l	cure	it
 back	at	the	Capitol	when	we	win,
Yes,	that’s	a	good	plan,
You	have	to	eat.	Keep	your	strength	up.	I’m	going	to	make	you
soup,
Don’t	light	a	fire,
It’s	not	worth	it.
We’ l	see,
Do	you	want	anything?
No,
Thank	you.	Wait,	yes.	Te l	me	a	story.
A	story?	What	about?
Something	happy.	Te l	me	about	the	happiest	day	you	can
 remember,
Did	I	ever	te l	you	about	how	I	got	Prim’s	goat?
Gale,
I	want	that	goat	for	Prim.
She’s	hurt	pretty	bad,
We	better	take	a	closer	look.
Let	her	be,
Just	looking,
We l,	look	fast.	She	goes	to	the	butcher	soon.	Hardly	anyone	wi l
 buy	her	milk,	and	then	they	only	pay	half	price,
What’s	the	butcher	giving	for	her?
Hang	around	and	see.
Lucky	thing	you	showed	up,
Girl’s	got	her	eye	on	your	goat.
Not	if	she’s	spoken	for,
She’s	not.
 Look	at	that	shoulder.	Bet	you	half	the	carcass	wi l	be	too	rotten	for	even
 sausage.
What?
We	had	a	deal.
We	had	a	deal	on	an	animal	with	a	few	teeth	marks.	Not	that	thing.
 Se l	her	to	the	girl	if	she’s	stupid	enough	to	take	her,
They	sound	like	you,
Oh,	no,	Peeta.	They	work	magic.	That	thing	couldn’t	have	died	if	it
 tried,
Don’t	worry.	I’m	not	trying,
Finish	the	story.
We l,	that’s	it.	Only	I	remember	that	night,	Prim	insisted	on	sleeping
 with	Lady	on	a	blanket	next	to	the	fire.	And	just	before	they	drifted	off,
 the	goat	licked	her	cheek,	like	it	was	giving	her	a	good	night	kiss	or
 something,
It	was	already	mad	about	her.
Was	it	sti l	wearing	the	pink	ribbon?
I	think	so,
Why?
I’m	just	trying	to	get	a	picture,
I	can	see	why
 that	day	made	you	happy.
We l,	I	knew	that	goat	would	be	a	little	gold	mine,
Yes,	of	course	I	was	referring	to	that,	not	the	lasting	joy	you	gave
 the	sister	you	love	so	much	you	took	her	place	in	the	reaping,
The	goat has paid	for	itself.	Several	times	over,
We l,	it	wouldn’t	dare	do	anything	else	after	you	saved	its	life,
I	intend	to	do	the	same	thing.
Rea ly?	What	did	you	cost	me	again?
A	lot	of	trouble.	Don’t	worry.	You’ l	get	it	a l	back,
You’re	not	making	sense,
You’re	a	little	cooler	though.
Now	hold	on.	Some	of	you	may	already	be
 declining	my	invitation.	But	this	is	no	ordinary	feast.	Each	of	you	needs
something	desperately.
Each	of	you	wil	find	that	something	in	a	backpack,	marked	with
 your	district	number,	at	the	Cornucopia	at	dawn.	Think	hard	about
 refusing	to	show	up.	For	some	of	you,	this	wi l	be	your	last	chance,
No,
You’re	not	risking
 your	life	for	me.
Who	said	I	was?
So,	you’re	not	going?
Of	course,	I’m	not	going.	Give	me	some	credit.	Do	you	think	I’m
 running	straight	into	some	free-for-a l	against	Cato	and	Clove	and	Thresh?
 Don’t	be	stupid,
I’ l	let	them	fight	it	out,
 we’ l	see	who’s	in	the	sky	tomorrow	night	and	work	out	a	plan	from
 there.
You’re	such	a	bad	liar,	Katniss.	I	don’t	know	how	you’ve	survived
 this	long.
I	knew	that	goat	would	be	a	little	gold
 mine.	You’re	a	little	cooler	though.	Of	course,	I’m	not	going. He	shakes	his
 head.	“Never	gamble	at	cards.	You’ l	lose	your	last	coin,
A l	right,	I	am	going,	and	you	can’t	stop	me!
I	can	fo low	you.	At	least	partway.	I	may	not	make	it	to	the
 Cornucopia,	but	if	I’m	ye ling	your	name,	I	bet	someone	can	find	me.	And
 then	I’ l	be	dead	for	sure,
You	won’t	get	a	hundred	yards	from	here	on	that	leg,
Then	I’ l	drag	myself,
You	go	and	I’m	going,	too.
What	am	I	supposed	to	do?	Sit	here	and	watch	you	die?
I	won’t	die.	I	promise.	If	you	promise	not	to	go,
Then	you	have
 to	do	what	I	say.	Drink	your	water,	wake	me	when	I	te l	you,	and	eat	every
 bite	of	the	soup	no	matter	how	disgusting	it	is!
Agreed.	Is	it	ready?
Wait	here,
I’ve	brought	you	a	treat.	I	found	a	new	patch	of	berries	a	little
 farther	downstream.
They’re	very	sweet.
Yes,	they’re	sugar	berries.	My	mother	makes	jam	from	them.
 Haven’t	you	ever	had	them	before?
No,
But	they	taste	familiar.	Sugar
 berries?
We l,	you	can’t	get	them	in	the	market	much,	they	only	grow	wild,
They’re	sweet	as	syrup,
Syrup.
Who	can’t	lie,
 Peeta?
Where’s	your	boyfriend,	District	Twelve?	Sti l	hanging	on?
He’s	out	there	now.	Hunting
 Cato,
Peeta!
Liar,
He’s	nearly	dead.	Cato	knows	where	he
 cut	him.	You’ve	probably	got	him	strapped	up	in	some	tree	while	you	try
 to	keep	his	heart	going.	What’s	in	the	pretty	little	backpack?	That	medicine
 for	Lover	Boy?	Too	bad	he’ l	never	get	it.
I	promised	Cato	if	he	let	me	have	you,	I’d	give	the	audience	a	good
 show.
Forget	it,	District	Twelve.	We’re	going	to	ki l	you.	Just	like	we	did
 your	pathetic	little	a ly	.	.	.	what	was	her	name?	The	one	who	hopped
 around	in	the	trees?	Rue?	We l,	first	Rue,	then	you,	and	then	I	think	we’ l
 just	let	nature	take	care	of	Lover	Boy.	How	does	that	sound?
Now,	where	to	start?
I	think	.	.	.
I	think	we’ l
 start	with	your	mouth.
Yes,	I	don’t	think	you’ l	have	much	use	for	your	lips	anymore.	Want
 to	blow	Lover	Boy	one	last	kiss?
A l	right	then.
 Let’s	get	started.
What’d	you	do	to	that	little	girl?	You	ki l	her?
No!	No,	it	wasn’t	me!
You	said	her	name.	I	heard	you.	You	ki l	her?
You	cut	her	up	like	you	were
 going	to	cut	up	this	girl	here?
No!	No,	I	—
Cato!
Cato!
Clove!
What’d	she	mean?	About	Rue	being	your	a ly?
I	—	I	—	we	teamed	up.	Blew	up	the	supplies.	I	tried	to	save	her,	I
 did.	But	he	got	there	first.	District	One,
And	you	kiled	him?
Yes.	I	ki led	him.	And	buried	her	in	flowers,
And	I	sang	her	to
sleep.
To	sleep?
To	death.	I	sang	until	she	died,
Your	district.	.	.	they	sent	me
 bread.
Do	it	fast,	okay,	Thresh?
Just	this	one	time,	I	let	you	go.	For	the
 little	girl.	You	and	me,	we’re	even	then.	No	more	owed.	You	understand?
Clove!
You	better	run	now,	Fire	Girl,
Katniss,
Katniss,	can	you	hear	me?
Peeta.
Hey,
Good	to	see	your	eyes	again.
How	long	have	I	been	out?
Not	sure.	I	woke	up	yesterday	evening	and	you	were	lying	next	to
 me	in	a	very	scary	pool	of	blood,
I	think	it’s	stopped	fina ly,	but	I
 wouldn’t	sit	up	or	anything.
You’re	better,
Much	better.	Whatever	you	shot	into	my	arm	did	the	trick,
By	this	morning,	almost	a l	the	swe ling	in	my	leg	was	gone.
Did	you	eat?
I’m	sorry	to	say	I	gobbled	down	three	pieces	of	that	groosling
 before	I	realized	it	might	have	to	last	a	while.	Don’t	worry,	I’m	back	on	a
 strict	diet,
No,	it’s	good.	You	need	to	eat.	I’ l	go	hunting	soon,
Not	too	soon,	a l	right?
You	just	let	me	take	care	of	you
 for	a	while.
Your	boots	and	socks	are	sti l	damp	and	the	weather’s	not	helping
 much,
I	wonder	what	brought	on	this	storm?	I	mean,	who’s	the	target?
Cato	and	Thresh,
Foxface	wi l	be	in	her	den
 somewhere,	and	Clove	.	.	.	she	cut	me	an	then	.	.	.
I	know	Clove’s	dead.	I	saw	it	in	the	sky	last	night,
Did	you
 ki l	her?
No.	Thresh	broke	her	sku l	with	a	rock,
Lucky	he	didn’t	catch	you,	too,
He	did.
 But	he	let	me	go.
He	let	you	go	because	he	didn’t	want	to	owe	you	anything?
Yes.	I	don’t	expect	you	to	understand	it.	You’ve	always	had	enough.
 But	if	you’d	lived	in	the	Seam,	I	wouldn’t	have	to	explain,
And	don’t	try.	Obviously	I’m	too	dim	to	get	it.
It’s	like	the	bread.	How	I	never	seem	to	get	over	owing	you	for
 that,
The	bread?	What?	From	when	we	were	kids?
I	think	we
 can	let	that	go.	I	mean,	you	just	brought	me	back	from	the	dead.
But	you	didn’t	know	me.	We	had	never	even	spoken.	Besides,	it’s
 the	first	gift	that’s	always	the	hardest	to	pay	back.	I	wouldn’t	even	have
 been	here	to	do	it	if	you	hadn’t	helped	me	then,
Why	did	you,
 anyway?
Why?	You	know	why,
Haymitch	said	you	would	take	a	lot	of	convincing.
Haymitch?
What’s	he	got	to	do	with	it?
Nothing,
So,	Cato	and	Thresh,	huh?	I	guess	it’s	too
 much	to	hope	that	they’ l	simultaneously	destroy	each	other?
I	think	we	would	like	Thresh.	I	think
 he’d	be	our	friend	back	in	District	Twelve,
Then	let’s	hope	Cato	ki ls	him,	so	we	don’t	have	to,
What	is	it?	Are	you	in	a	lot	of	pain?
I	want	to
 go	home,	Peeta,
You	wil.	I	promise,
I	want	to	go	home	now,
Te l	you	what.	You	go	back	to	sleep	and	dream of home.	And	you’ l
 be	there	for	real	before	you	know	it,
Okay?
Okay,
Wake	me	if	you	need	me	to	keep	watch.
I’m	good	and	rested,	thanks	to	you	and	Haymitch.	Besides,	who
 knows	how	long	this	wil	last?
Should	we	try	and	ration	it?
No,	let’s	just	finish	it.	The	groosling’s	getting	old	anyway,	and	the
 last	thing	we	need	is	to	get	sick	off spoilt food,
Tomorrow’s	a	hunting	day,
I	won’t	be	much	help	with	that,
I’ve	never	hunted
 before.
I’ l	ki l	and	you	cook,
And	you	can	always	gather.
I	wish	there	was	some	sort	of	bread	bush	out	there,
The	bread	they	sent	me	from	District	Eleven	was	sti l	warm,
Here,	chew	these.
Where	did	Thresh	go?	I	mean,	what’s	on	the	far	side	of	the	circle?
A	field.	As	far	as	you	can	see	it’s	fu l	of	grasses	as	high	as	my
shoulders.	I	don’t	know,	maybe	some	of	them	are	grain.	There	are	patches
 of	different	colors.	But	there	are	no	paths,
I	bet	some	of	them	are	grain.	I	bet	Thresh	knows	which	ones,	too,
Did	you	go	in	there?
No.	Nobody	rea ly	wanted	to	track	Thresh	down	in	that	grass.	It	has
 a	sinister	feeling	to	it.	Every	time	I	look	at	that	field,	a l	I	can	think	of	are
 hidden	things.	Snakes,	and	rabid	animals,	and	quicksand,
There	could	be	anything	in	there.
Maybe	there	is	a	bread	bush	in	that	field,
Maybe	that’s	why
 Thresh	looks	better	fed	now	than	when	we	started	the	Games.
Either	that	or	he’s	got	very	generous	sponsors,
I
 wonder	what	we’d	have	to	do	to	get	Haymitch	to	send	us	some	bread.
We l,	he	probably	used	up	a	lot	of	resources	helping	me	knock	you
out,
Yeah,	about	that,
Don’t
 try	something	like	that	again.
Or	what?
Or	.	.	.	or	.	.	.
Just	give	me	a
 minute.
What’s	the	problem?
The	problem	is	we’re	both	sti l	alive.	Which	only	reinforces	the	idea
 in	your	mind	that	you	did	the	right	thing,
I	did	do	the	right	thing,
No!	Just	don’t,	Katniss!
Don’t	die	for	me.	You	won’t	be	doing	me
 any	favors.	A l	right?
Maybe	I	did	it	for	myself,	Peeta,	did
 you	ever	think	of	that?	Maybe	you	aren’t	the	only	one	who	.	.	.	who
 worries	about	.	.	.	what	it	would	be	like	if.	.	.
If	what,	Katniss?
That’s	exactly	the	kind	of	topic	Haymitch	told	me	to	steer	clear	of,
Then	I’ l	just	have	to	fi l	in	the	blanks	myself,
I	think	your
 wound	is	bleeding	again.	Come	on,	lie	down,	it’s	bedtime	anyway,
Tomorrow,	when	it’s	dry,	I’ l	find	us	a	place	so	high	in	the	trees	we
 can	both	sleep	in	peace,
Peeta,
You	said	at	the	interview	you’d	had	a	crush	on
 me	forever.	When	did	forever	start?
Oh,	let’s	see.	I	guess	the	first	day	of	school.	We	were	five.	You	had
 on	a	red	plaid	dress	and	your	hair	.	.	.	it	was	in	two	braids	instead	of	one.
 My	father	pointed	you	out	when	we	were	waiting	to	line	up,
Your	father?	Why?
He	said,	‘See	that	little	girl?	I	wanted	to	marry	her	mother,	but	she
 ran	off	with	a	coal	miner,’
What?	You’re	making	that	up!
No,	true	story,
And	I	said,	‘A	coal	miner?	Why	did	she
 want	a	coal	miner	if	she	could’ve	had	you?’	And	he	said,	‘Because	when	he
 sings	.	.	.	even	the	birds	stop	to	listen.’
That’s	true.	They	do.	I	mean,	they	did,
So	that	day,	in	music	assembly,	the	teacher	asked	who	knew	the
 va ley	song.	Your	hand	shot	right	up	in	the	air.	She	stood	you	up	on	a
 stool	and	had	you	sing	it	for	us.	And	I	swear,	every	bird	outside	the
 windows	fe l	silent,
Oh,	please,
No,	it	happened.	And	right	when	your	song	ended,	I	knew	—	just
 like	your	mother	—	I	was	a	goner,
Then	for	the	next	eleven
 years,	I	tried	to	work	up	the	nerve	to	talk	to	you.
Without	success,
Without	success.	So,	in	a	way,	my	name	being	drawn	in	the	reaping
 was	a	real	piece	of	luck,
You	have	a	.	.	.	remarkable	memory,
I	remember	everything	about	you,
You’re	the	one	who	wasn’t	paying
 attention.
I	am	now,
We l,	I	don’t	have	much	competition	here,
Say	it!	Say	it!
You	don’t	have	much
 competition	anywhere.
I	guess
 Haymitch	fina ly	got	tired	of	watching	us	starve.
I	guess	so,
Yes, that’s what	I’m	looking	lot,	sweetheart.
We	better
 take	it	slow	on	that	stew.	Remember	the	first	night	on	the	train?	The	rich
 food	made	me	sick	and	I	wasn’t	even	starving	then.
You’re	right.	And	I	could	just	inhale	the	whole	thing!
I	want	more.
Me,	too.	Te l	you	what.	We	wait	an	hour,	if	it	stays	down,	then	we
 get	another	serving,
Agreed,
It’s	going	to	be	a	long	hour.
Maybe	not	that	long,
What	was	that	you	were	saying
 just	before	the	food	arrived?	Something	about	me	.	.	.	no	competition	.	.	.
 best	thing	that	ever	happened	to	you	.	.	.
I	don’t	remember	that	last	part,
Oh,	that’s	right.	That’s	what	I	was	thinking,
Scoot	over,	I’m
 freezing.
So,	since	we	were	five,	you
 never	even	noticed	any	other	girls?
No,	I	noticed	just	about	every	girl,	but	none	of	them	made	a	lasting
 impression	but	you,
I’m	sure	that	would	thri l	your	parents,	you	liking	a	girl	from	the
 Seam,
Hardly.	But	I	couldn’t	care	less.	Anyway,	if	we	make	it	back,	you
 won’t	be	a	girl	from	the	Seam,	you’ l	be	a	girl	from	the	Victor’s	Vi lage,
But	then,	our	only	neighbor	wi l	be
 Haymitch!
Ah,	that’ l	be	nice,
You
 and	me	and	Haymitch.	Very	cozy.	Picnics,	birthdays,	long	winter	nights
 around	the	fire	rete ling	old	Hunger	Games’	tales.
I	told	you,	he	hates	me!
Only	sometimes.	When	he’s	sober,	I’ve	never	heard	him	say	one
negative	thing	about	you,
He’s	never	sober!
That’s	right.	Who	am	I	thinking	of?	Oh,	I	know.	It’s	Cinna	who	likes
 you.	But	that’s	mainly	because	you	didn’t	try	to	run	when	he	set	you	on
 fire,
On	the	other	hand,	Haymitch	.	.	.	we l,	if	I	were	you,	I’d
 avoid	Haymitch	completely.	He	hates	you.
I	thought	you	said	I	was	his	favorite,
He	hates	me	more,
I	don’t	think	people	in	general	are
 his	sort	of	thing.
How	do	you	think	he	did	it?
Who?	Did	what?
Haymitch.	How	do	you	think	he	won	the	Games?
He	outsmarted	the	others,
There	won’t	be	anything	to	see	tonight,
Nothing’s	happened	or	we	would’ve	heard	a
 cannon.
Katniss,
What?	Should	we	split	another	ro l,	too?
Katniss,
I’m	going	to	split	one.	But	I’ l	save	the	cheese	for	tomorrow,
What?
Thresh	is	dead,
He	can’t	be,
They	must	have	fired	the	cannon	during	the	thunder	and	we	missed
 it,
Are	you	sure?	I	mean,	it’s	pouring	buckets	out	there.	I	don’t	know
 how	you	can	see	anything,
You	a l	right?
It’s	just	.	.	.	if	we	didn’t	win	.	.
 .	I	wanted	Thresh	to.	Because	he	let	me	go.	And	because	of	Rue.
Yeah,	I	know,
But	this	means	we’re	one	step	closer	to
 District	Twelve.
Eat.	It’s	sti l
 warm.
It	also	means	Cato	wi l
be	back	hunting	us.
And	he’s	got	supplies	again,
He’ l	be	wounded,	I	bet,
What	makes	you	say	that?
Because	Thresh	would	have	never	gone	down	without	a	fight.	He’s
 so	strong,	I	mean,	he	was.	And	they	were	in	his	territory,
Good,
The	more	wounded	Cato	is	the	better.	I	wonder
 how	Foxface	is	making	out.
Oh,	she’s	fine,
Probably	be	easier	to	catch	Cato	than
 her.
Maybe	they’ l	catch	each	other	and	we	can	just	go	home,
But	we	better	be	extra	careful	about	the	watches.	I	dozed	off	a	few
 times.
Me,	too,
But	not	tonight.
Don’t	be	mad,
I	had	to	eat
 again.	Here’s	your	half.
Oh,	good,
Mm.
We	make	a	goat	cheese	and	apple	tart	at	the	bakery,
Bet	that’s	expensive,
Too	expensive	for	my	family	to	eat.	Unless	it’s	gone	very	stale.	Of
 course,	practica ly	everything	we	eat	is	stale,
But	you	won’t	be	alone,
We’re	wasting	hunting	time,
I	wouldn’t	ca l	it	wasting,
So	do	we	hunt	on	empty	stomachs	to	give	us	an	edge?
Not	us,
We	stuff	ourselves	to	give	us	staying	power.
Count	me	in,
A l	this?
We’ l	earn	it	back	today,
I	can	feel	Effie
 Trinket	shuddering	at	my	manners.
Hey,	Effie,	watch	this!
We
 miss	you,	Effie!
Stop!	Cato	could
 be	right	outside	our	cave.
What	do	I	care?	I’ve	got	you	to	protect	me
 now,
Come	on,
He’ l	be	hunting	us	by	now,
Cato	isn’t	one	to	wait	for
 his	prey	to	wander	by.
If	he’s	wounded	—
It	won’t	matter,
If	he	can	move,	he’s	coming.
If	we	want	food,	we	better	head	back	up	to	my	old	hunting
 grounds,
Your	ca l.	Just	te l	me	what	you	need	me	to	do,
Keep	an	eye	out,
Stay	on	the	rocks	as	much	as	possible,	no
 sense	in	leaving	him	tracks	to	fo low.	And	listen	for	both	of	us.
What?
You’ve	got	to	move	more	quietly,
Forget	about	Cato,	you’re
chasing	off	every	rabbit	in	a	ten-mile	radius.
Rea ly?
Sorry,	I	didn’t	know.
Can	you	take	your	boots	off?
Here?
Yes,
I	wi l,	too.	That	way	we’ l	both	be	quieter.
Katniss,
We	need	to	split	up.	I	know	I’m	chasing	away	the
 game.
Only	because	your	leg’s	hurt,
I	know,
So,	why	don’t	you	go	on?	Show	me	some	plants	to
gather	and	that	way	we’ l	both	be	useful.
Not	if	Cato	comes	and	ki ls	you.
Look,	I	can	handle	Cato.	I	fought	him
 before,	didn’t	I?
What	if	you	climbed	up	in	a	tree	and	acted	as
 a	lookout	while	I	hunted?
What	if	you	show	me	what’s	edible	around	here	and	go	get	us	some
 meat?
Just	don’t	go	far,	in	case	you	need
 help.
Peeta!
Peeta!
What	are	you	doing?	You’re	supposed
 to	be	here,	not	running	around	in	the	woods!
I	found	some	berries	down	by	the	stream,
I	whistled.	Why	didn’t	you	whistle	back?
I	didn’t	hear.	The	water’s	too	loud,	I	guess,
I	thought	Cato	ki led	you!
No,	I’m	fine.
Katniss?
If	two	people	agree	on	a
 signal,	they	stay	in	range.	Because	if	one	of	them	doesn’t	answer,	they’re
 in	trouble,	a l	right?
A l	right!
A l	right.	Because	that’s	what	happened	with	Rue,	and	I	watched	her
 die!
And	you	ate	without	me!
What?	No,	I	didn’t,
Oh,	and	I	suppose	the	apples	ate	the	cheese,
I	don’t	know	what	ate	the	cheese,
but	it	wasn’t	me.	I’ve	been	down	by	the
 stream	co lecting	berries.	Would	you	care	for	some?
Not	these,	Katniss.	Never	these.
 They’re	nightlock.	You’ l	be	dead	before	they	reach	your	stomach.
Climb.	He’ l	be
 here	in	a	second.	We’ l	stand	a	better	chance	fighting	him	from	above.
No,	Peeta,	she’s	your	ki l,	not	Cato’s.
What?	I	haven’t	even	seen	her	since	the	first	day,
How
 could	I	have	ki led	her?
I	wonder	how	she	found	us,
My	fault,	I	guess,	if	I’m	as
 loud	as	you	say.
And	she’s	very	clever,	Peeta.	We l,	she	was.	Until	you	outfoxed	her.
Not	on	purpose.	Doesn’t	seem	fair	somehow.	I	mean,	we	would
 have	both	been	dead,	too,	if	she	hadn’t	eaten	the	berries	first.
No,	of	course,	we	wouldn’t.	You	recognized	them,	didn’t	you?
We	ca l	them	nightlock.
Even	the	name	sounds	deadly,
I’m	sorry,	Katniss.	I	rea ly
 thought	they	were	the	same	ones	you’d	gathered.
Don’t	apologize.	It	just	means	we’re	one	step	closer	to	home,	right?
I’ l	get	rid	of	the	rest,
Wait!
If	they
 fooled	Foxface,	maybe	they	can	fool	Cato	as	we l.	If	he’s	chasing	us	or
 something,	we	can	act	like	we	accidenta ly	drop	the	pouch	and	if	he	eats
 them	—
Then	he lo	District	Twelve,
That’s	it,
He’ l	know	where	we	are	now,
If	he	was	anywhere
 nearby	and	saw	that	hovercraft,	he’ l	know	we	ki led	her	and	come	after
 us.
Let’s	make	a	fire.	Right	now.
Are	you	ready	to	face	him?
I’m	ready	to	eat.	Better	to	cook	our	food	while	we	have	the	chance.
 If	he	knows	we’re	here,	he	knows.	But	he	also	knows	there’s	two	of	us
 and	probably	assumes	we	were	hunting	Foxface.	That	means	you’re
 recovered.	And	the	fire	means	we’re	not	hiding,	we’re	inviting	him	here.
 Would	you	show	up?
Maybe	not,
I	can’t	climb	like	you,	Katniss,
 especia ly	with	my	leg,	and	I	don’t	think	I	could	ever	fa l	asleep	fifty	feet
 above	the	ground.
It’s	not	safe	to	stay	in	the	open,	Peeta,
Can’t	we	go	back	to	the	cave?
It’s	near	water	and	easy	to
 defend.
Sure.	Let’s	go	back	to	the	cave.
We l,	that	was	easy.
I	slept	the	whole	night.	That’s
 not	fair,	Katniss,	you	should	have	woken	me.
I’ l	sleep	now.	Wake	me	if
 anything	interesting	happens.
Any	sign	of	our	friend?
No,	he’s	keeping	a	disturbingly	low	profile.
How	long	do	you	think	we’ l	have	before	the	Gamemakers	drive	us
 together?
We l,	Foxface	died	almost	a	day	ago,	so	there’s	been	plenty	of	time
 for	the	audience	to	place	bets	and	get	bored.	I	guess	it	could	happen	at
 any	moment,
Yeah,	I	have	a	feeling	today’s	the	day,
I	wonder	how	they’ l	do	it.
We l,	until	they	do,	no	sense	in	wasting	a	hunting	day.	But	we
 should	probably	eat	as	much	as	we	can	hold	just	in	case	we	run	into
 trouble,
Not	even	a	little	damp.	They	must	have	drained	it	while	we	slept,
The	lake,
That’s	where	they	want	us	to	go.
Maybe	the	ponds	sti l	have	some,
We	can	check,
You’re	right.	They’re	driving	us	to	the	lake,
Do	you	want	to	go	straightaway	or	wait	until	the
 water’s	tapped	out?
Let’s	go	now,	while	we’ve	had	food	and	rest.	Let’s	just	go	end	this
 thing,
Two	against	one.	Should	be	a	piece	of	cake,
Next	time	we	eat,	it	wi l	be	in	the	Capitol,
You	bet	it	wi l,
Let’s	move	on,
We	don’t	want	to	fight	him	after	dark.
 There’s	only	the	one	pair	of	glasses.
Maybe
 that’s	what	he’s	waiting	for.	What	do	you	want	to	do?	Go	back	to	the
 cave?
Either	that	or	find	a	tree.	But	let’s	give	him	another	half	an	hour	or
 so.	Then	we’ l	take	cover,
Just	like	your	father,
That’s	Rue’s	song,
I	think
 they	remember	it.
He’s	got	some	kind	of	body	armor!
Go,	Katniss!	Go!
Climb!
What?
He	said,	‘Can	they	climb	it?’
Katniss?
It’s	her!
Who?
What	is	it,	Katniss?
It’s	them.	It’s	a l	of	them.	The	others.	Rue	and	Foxface	and	.	.	.	a l	of
 the	other	tributes,
What	did	they	do	to	them?	You
 don’t	think	.	.	.	those	could	be	their	real	eyes?
Ki l	it,	Peeta!	Ki l	it!
Shoot	me	and	he	goes	down	with	me.
Don’t	go	to	sleep,
Are	you	cold?
Cato	may	win	this	thing	yet,
Don’t	you	believe	it,
Why	don’t	they	just	ki l	him?
You	know	why,
I	think	he’s	closer	now.	Katniss,	can	you	shoot	him?
My	last	arrow’s	in	your	tourniquet,
Make	it	count,
Did	you	get	him?
Then	we	won,	Katniss,
Hurray	for	us,
Hey!
What’s	going	on?
Maybe	it’s	the	body.	Maybe	we	have	to	move	away	from	it,
Okay.	Think	you	could	make	it	to	the	lake?
Think	I	better	try,
What	are	they	waiting	for?
I	don’t	know,
Greetings	to	the	final	contestants	of	the	Seventy-fourth	Hunger
 Games.	The	earlier	revision	has	been	revoked.	Closer	examination	of	the
 rule	book	has	disclosed	that	only	one	winner	may	be	a lowed,
Good	luck	and	may	the	odds	be	ever	in	your	favor.
If	you	think	about	it,	it’s	not	that	surprising,
No,
Do	it.
I	can’t,	I	say.	“I	won’t.
Do	it.	Before	they	send	those	mutts	back	or	something.	I	don’t	want
 to	die	like	Cato,
Then	you	shoot	me,
You	shoot	me	and	go	home	and	live	with	it!
You	know	I	can’t,
Fine,	I’ l	go
 first	anyway.
No,	you	can’t	ki l	yourself,
Katniss,
It’s	what	I	want.
You’re	not	leaving	me	here	alone,
Listen,
We	both	know	they	have	to
 have	a	victor.	It	can	only	be	one	of	us.	Please,	take	it.	For	me.
No,	I	won’t	let	you.
Trust	me,
On	the	count	of	three?
The	count	of
 three,
Hold	them	out.	I	want	everyone	to	see,
One.
Two.
Three!
Stop!
 Stop!	Ladies	and	gentlemen,	I	am	pleased	to	present	the	victors	of	the
 Seventy-fourth	Hunger	Games,	Katniss	Everdeen	and	Peeta	Me lark!	I	give
 you	—	the	tributes	of	District	Twelve!
You	didn’t	swa low	any?
You?
Guess	I’d	be	dead	by	now	if	I	did,
Did	Peeta	make	it?
Peeta!
Nice	job,	sweetheart,
Where’s	Portia?	Is	she	with	Peeta?	He	is	a l	right,	isn’t	he?	I	mean,
 he’s	alive?
He’s	fine.	Only	they	want	to	do	your	reunion	live	on	air	at	the
 ceremony,
Oh.	That’s	a l,
I	guess	I’d	want	to	see	that	myself.
Go	on	with	Cinna.	He	has	to	get	you	ready,
No,	no,	no.	They	don’t	want	it	a l	coming	back	up	on	the	stage,
Oh,	they	did	a	fu l	body	polish	on	you,
Not
 a	flaw	left	on	your	skin.
I	was	sti l	in	bed!
I	had	just	had	my	eyebrows
 dyed!
I	swear	I	nearly	fainted!
Have	you	given	up	the	whole	‘girl	on	fire’	thing?
You	te l	me,
I	know,
But	the	Gamemakers
 wanted	to	alter	you	surgica ly.	Haymitch	had	a	huge	fight	with	them	over
 it.	This	was	the	compromise.
Wait,	don’t	forget	the	shoes.
girl	on	fire.
What	do	you	think?
I	think	it’s	the	best	yet,
I	thought	it’d	be	something	more	.	.	.	sophisticated-looking,
I	thought	Peeta	would	like	this	better,
Easy,	just	me.	Let’s	have	a	look	at	you,
Good	enough.
But	what?
But	nothing.	How	about	a	hug	for	luck?
Listen	up.	You’re	in	trouble.	Word	is	the	Capitol’s	furious	about	you
 showing	them	up	in	the	arena.	The	one	thing	they	can’t	stand	is	being
 laughed	at	and	they’re	the	joke	of	Panem,
So,	what?
Your	only	defense	can	be	you	were	so	madly	in	love	you	weren’t
responsible	for	your	actions.
Got	it,	sweetheart?
Got	it,
Did	you	te l	Peeta	this?
Don’t	have	to,
He’s	already	there.
But	you	think	I’m	not?
Since	when	does	it	matter	what	I	think?
Better	take
 our	places.
This	is	your	night,
 sweetheart.	Enjoy	it.
Don’t	have	to.	He’s	already	there.
Why	can’t	I	talk	to	him?
Plenty	of	time	for	talk	when	we	get	home,
Go	to
 bed,	you’re	on	air	at	two.
big,	big,	big	day!
The	crowd	loved	you!
Congratulations,	Katniss.	How	are	you	faring?
Fine.	Nervous	about	the	interview,
Don’t	be.	We’re	going	to	have	a	fabulous	time,
I’m	not	good	at	talking	about	myself,
Nothing	you	say	wi l	be	wrong,
accident
I	hardly	get	to	see	you.	Haymitch	seems	bent	on	keeping
 us	apart.
Yes,	he’s	gotten	very	responsible	lately.
We l,	there’s	just	this	and	we	go	home.	Then	he	can’t	watch	us	a l
 the	time,
Oh,	go	ahead	and	curl	up	next	to	him	if	you	want.	It
 looked	very	sweet.
We l,	Peeta,	we	know,	from	our	days	in	the	cave,	that	it
 was	love	at	first	sight	for	you	from	what,	age	five?
From	the	moment	I	laid	eyes	on	her,
But,	Katniss,	what	a	ride	for	you.	I	think	the	real	excitement	for	the
 audience	was	watching	you	fa l	for	him.	When	did	you	realize	you	were	in
 love	with	him?
Oh,	that’s	a	hard	one	.	.	.
We l,	I	know	when	it	hit	me.	The	night	when	you	shouted	out	his
 name	from	that	tree,
Yes,	I	guess	that
 was	it.	I	mean,	until	that	point,	I	just	tried	not	to	think	about	what	my
 feelings	might	be,	honestly,	because	it	was	so	confusing	and	it	only	made
 things	worse	if	I	actua ly	cared	about	him.	But	then,	in	the	tree,	everything
 changed,
Why	do	you	think	that	was?
Maybe	.	.	.	because	for	the	first	time	.	.	.	there	was	a	chance	I	could
keep	him,
So	now	that	you’ve	got	me,	what
 are	you	going	to	do	with	me?
Put	you	somewhere	you	can’t	get	hurt.
new	leg
New	leg?
Oh,	no,
No	one	told	you?
I	haven’t	had	the	chance,
It’s	my	fault,
Because	I	used	that	tourniquet.
Yes,	it’s	your	fault	I’m	alive,
He’s	right,
He’d	have	bled	to	death	for	sure	without
 it.
Katniss,	I	know	you’ve	had	a	shock,	but	I’ve	got	to	ask.	The	moment
 when	you	pu led	out	those	berries.	What	was	going	on	in	your	mind	.	.	.
 hm?
I	don’t	know,	I	just	.	.	.	couldn’t	bear	the
 thought	of	.	.	.	being	without	him.
Peeta?	Anything	to	add?
No.	I	think	that	goes	for	both	of	us,
Okay?
Perfect,
What’s	wrong?
Nothing,
Great	job,	you	two.	Just
 keep	it	up	in	the	district	until	the	cameras	are	gone.	We	should	be	okay.
What’s	he	mean?
It’s	the	Capitol.	They	didn’t	like	our	stunt	with	the	berries,
What?	What	are	you	talking	about?
It	seemed	too	rebe lious.	So,	Haymitch	has	been	coaching	me
 through	the	last	few	days.	So	I	didn’t	make	it	worse,
Coaching	you?	But	not	me,
He	knew	you	were	smart	enough	to	get	it	right,
I	didn’t	know	there	was	anything	to	get	right,
So,	what
 you’re	saying	is,	these	last	few	days	and	then	I	guess	.	.	.	back	in	the	arena	.
 .	.	that	was	just	some	strategy	you	two	worked	out.
No.	I	mean,	I	couldn’t	even	talk	to	him	in	the	arena,	could	I?
But	you	knew	what	he	wanted	you	to	do,	didn’t	you?
Katniss?
It	was	a l	for	the	Games,
How	you	acted.
Not	a l	of	it,
Then	how	much?	No,	forget	that.	I	guess	the	real	question	is	what’s
 going	to	be	left	when	we	get	home?
I	don’t	know.	The	closer	we	get	to	District	Twelve,	the	more
 confused	I	get,
We l,	let	me	know	when	you	work	it	out,
One	more	time?	For	the	audience?
