There he goes again.
I hope it turns out well.
Good morning
It’ll keep you from going crazy,
It’s God’s music
 and it’ll take you home.
Hi,
Finley’s told me a lot about you.
So
 that’s the ghost you been running from.
You know, the ghost, the memory. I been
 watchin’ you workin’ day and night, slavin’ so hard you barely
 have time to catch your breath. People do that for three
 reasons. Either they crazy, or stupid, or tryin’ to forget. And with
 you, I knew you was tryin’ to forget. I just didn’t know what.
It’s just a
 couple of days,
and besides, I need a break from
 planning the wedding.
eyes like ocean waves
Damn,
What am I doing here? I shouldn’t
 be here. There’s no reason for it.
This is why,
this is what it’s all
 about.
It’s good that we
 spend some time together,
just like my daddy and I did.
Learn to read this aloud
and you’ll be able to say anything you want to.
I don’t care what my parents think, I love you and
 always will,
We’ll find a way to be together.
Only the summer is
 over, Allie, not us,
We’ll never
 be over.
Give a day’s work for a day’s pay.
 Any?thing less is stealing.
It’s a
 shame you aren’t Jewish,
you’re such a
 fine boy in so many other ways.
I
 wish I could give you what you’re looking for, but I don’t know
 what it is. There’s a part of you that you keep closed off from
 everyone, including me. It’s as if your’ mind is on someone else.
 It’s like you keep waiting for her to pop out of thin air to take you
 away from all this. . .
I couldn’t have
 done it without you,
You’re the finest young man
 who ever worked for me, even if you aren’t Jewish.
Remember this?
It can’t be,
Are
 you okay?
You look a little
 pale.
And here it will end, one way or the other,
It’s now or
 never,
Hello, Noah. It’s good
 to see you again.
You too,
It’s really you, isn’t it? I can’t believe it..
 She heard the shock in his voice as he spoke, and
 surprising her it all came together—being here, seeing him. She
 felt something twitch inside, something deep and old, something
 that made her dizzy for just a second. She caught herself
 fighting for control. She hadn’t expected this to happen, didn’t
 want it to happen. She was engaged now. She hadn’t come
 here for this. Yet.
 Yet the feeling went on despite herself, and for a brief
 moment she felt fifteen again. Felt as she hadn’t in years, as if
 all her dreams could still come true. Felt as though she’d finally
 come home.
 Without another word they came together, as if it were the
 most natural thing in the world, and he put his arms around her,
drawing her close. They held each other tightly; both of them
 letting the fourteen years of separation dissolve in the
 deepening twilight.
 They stayed like that for a long time before she finally
 pulled back to look at him. Up close, she could see the changes
 she hadn’t noticed at first. His face had lost the softness of
 youth. The faint lines around his eyes had deepened. There was
 a new edge to him; he seemed less innocent, more cautious,
 and yet the way he was holding her made her realize how much
 she’d missed him.
 Her eyes brimmed with tears as they finally released each
 other. She laughed nervously while wiping the corners of her
 eyes.
 “Are you okay?
I’m sorry, I didn’t mean to cry.
 “It’s okay,
I still can’t believe it’s you. How
 did you find me?
I saw the story on the house in the Raleigh
 paper a couple of weeks ago, and I had to come and see you
 again.
I’m glad you did.
You look fantastic. You’re even prettier now than you were
 then.
Thank you. You look great, too.
So what have you been up to? Why are you here?
Noah,
 before you get the wrong idea, I did want to see you again, but
there’s more to it than just that.
I
 came here for a reason. There’s something I have to tell you.
What is it?
I don’t know how to say it. I thought I did at first, but now
 I’m not so sure..
 The air was suddenly rattled by the sharp cry of a raccoon,
 and Clem came out from under the porch, barking gruffly. Both
 of them turned at the commotion, and Allie was glad for the
 distraction.
 “Is he yours?
Actually
 it’s a she. Clementine’s her name. But yeah, she’s all mine.
What happened to her leg?
Hit by a car a few months back. Doc Harrison, the vet,
 called me to see if I wanted her because her owner didn’t any
 more. After I saw what had happened, I guess I just couldn’t let
 her be put down."
 “You were always nice like that,
You did a wonderful
 job restoring it. It looks perfect, just like I knew it would some
 day.
Thanks, that’s nice of you. It was quite a project, though. I
 don’t know if I would do it again.
Of course you would,
What is it, Allie?
I’m being rather silly, aren’t I?
What do you mean?
This whole thing. Showing up out of the blue, not knowing
 what I want to say. You must think I’m crazy.
You’re not crazy,
Even though I don’t know why, I can see this is hard for
 you. Why don’t we go for a walk?
Like we used to?
Why not? I think we both could use one.
Do you need to
 tell anyone?
There’s no one to tell. It’s just me and
 Clem.
A living
 poem
How long have you been back here?
Since last December. I worked up north for a while, then
 spent the last three years in Europe.
The war?
I thought you might be there. I’m glad you made it out
 okay.
Me too,
Are you glad to be back home?
Yeah. My roots are here. This is where I’m supposed to
 be.
But what about you?
I’m engaged.
Congratulations,
When’s the big day?
Three weeks. Lon wanted a November wedding.
Lon?
Lon Hammond Junior. My fiancé
I’ve heard of them. His father built quite a business. Did
 Lon take over for him?
No, he’s a lawyer. He has his own
 practice.
With his name, he must be busy.
He is. He works a lot.
Does he treat you well?
Yes. He’s a good man, Noah.
 You’d like him.
How’s your daddy doing?
He passed
 on earlier this year, right after I got back.
I’m sorry,
A lot of memories there, Allie.
I know. I saw it when I came in. Do you
 remember the day we spent there?
Yes,
Do you ever think about it?
Sometimes,” he said. “Usually when I’m working out this
 way.
 It sits on my property now.”
 
Do you still read poetry?
 He nodded. “Yeah. I never stopped. I guess it’s in my
 blood.
Do you know, you’re the only poet I’ve ever met.
I’m no poet. I read, but I can’t write a verse. I’ve tried.
You’re still a poet, Noah Taylor Calhoun.
I still think about it a lot. It was the first time anyone ever
 read poetry to me. In fact, it’s the only time.
So, how long are you staying?”
 “I don’t know. Not long. Maybe until tomorrow or the next
 day.”
 
No, he’s still in Raleigh.
Does he know you’re here?
No. I told
 him I was looking for antiques. He wouldn’t understand my
 coming here.
Allie, do you love him?
Yes, I love him.
If you’re happy, Allie, and you love him. I won’t try to stop
 you from going back to him. But if there’s a part of you that isn’t
 sure, then don’t do it. This isn’t the kind of thing you go into
 halfway.
I’m making the right
 decision. Noah.
It’s okay. I really can’t blame you.”
 “I’m sorry anyway.”
 
I’m glad you came. It’s good to see you
 again. You were the best friend I ever had, Allie. I’d still like to be
 friends, even if you are engaged, and even if it is just for a
 couple of days. How about we just kind of get to know each
 other again?”
 She thought about it, and decided that since he knew about
 her engagement, it would probably be all right. Or at least not
 wrong.
 She smiled slightly and nodded. 
Good. How about dinner? I know a place that serves the
 best crab in town.”
 
My house. I’ve had the traps out all week, and I saw that I
 had some good ones caged a couple of days ago. Do you
 mind?”
 
Great. They’re at the dock. I’ll just be a couple of minutes.”
 Allie watched him walk away and noticed the tension she’d
 felt when telling him about her engagement beginning to fade.
 Closing her eyes, she ran her hands through her hair and let the
 breeze fan her cheek. She took a deep breath and held it for a
 moment, feeling the muscles in her shoulders relax as she
 exhaled. Finally, opening her eyes, she stared at the beauty that
 surrounded her. She always loved evenings like this, when the
 faint aroma of autumn leaves rode on soft southern winds. She
 loved the trees and the sounds they made. Listening to them
 helped her relax even more. After a moment, she turned
 towards the dock and looked at Noah.
 God, he looked good. Even after all this time.
 She watched him as he reached for a rope that hung in the
 water. He began to pull it, and despite the darkening sky she
 saw the muscles in his arm flex as he lifted the cage from the
 water. He let it hang over the river for a moment and shook it,
 letting most of the water escape. After setting the trap on the
 dock, he opened it and began to remove the crabs one by one,
 placing them into a bucket.
 She looked around and realized she had forgotten how
 fresh and beautiful everything seemed here. Over her shoulder,
 as she walked over to join Noah, she saw he had left a couple of
 lights on in the house. It seemed to be the only house around.
 At least the only one with electricity.
 She stepped on the dock and it creaked under her foot. The
 sound reminded her of a rusty squeezebox. Noah glanced up,
 then went back to checking the crabs, making sure they were
 the right size. She walked to the rocker that sat on the dock and
touched it, running her hand along the back. She could picture
 him sitting in it, fishing, thinking, reading. It was old and
 weather-beaten, rough-feeling. She wondered how much time
 he spent here alone, and about his thoughts at times like those.
 A compulsion had driven her here, and for the first time in
 three weeks the feeling was gone. She’d needed Noah to know
 about her engagement, to understand, to accept it—she was
 sure of that now. While thinking of him, she was reminded of
 something they shared the summer they were together. With
 head down, she paced around slowly until she found it—the
 carving. Noah loves Allie, in a heart. Carved into the dock a few
 days before she’d left.
 A breeze broke the stillness and chilled her, making her
 cross her arms. She stood that way, alternately looking down at
 the caning and then towards the river, until she heard him reach
 her side. She could feel his closeness, his warmth.
 “It’s so peaceful here,” she said, her voice dreamlike.
 “I know. I come down here a lot now just to be close to the
 water. It makes me feel good. Come on, let’s go. The
 mosquitoes are getting vicious, and I’m starved.”
 THE SKY had turned black and they started towards the
 house. In the silence Allie’s mind wandered and she felt a little
 light-headed. She wondered what he was thinking about her
 being here and wasn’t exactly sure if she knew herself. When
 they reached the house a couple of minutes later, Clem greeted
 them on the back porch.
 Noah set the bucket by the door, then led the way inside to
 the kitchen. It was on the right, large and smelling of new wood.
 The cabinets had been done in oak, like the floor, and the
 windows were large and faced east, allowing the light from the
 morning sun. It was a tasteful restoration, not overdone as was
 so often the case when homes like this were rebuilt.
 “Do you mind if I look around?”
 “No, go ahead. I did some shopping earlier and I still have
 to put the groceries away.”
 She toured the house for the next few minutes, walking
 through the rooms, noticing how wonderful it looked. She came
down the stairs, turned towards the kitchen, and saw his profile.
 For a second he looked like a young man of seventeen again,
 and it made her pause a split second before going on. Damn,
 she thought, get a hold of yourself. Remember that you’re
 engaged now.
 He was standing by the counter; a couple of cabinet doors
 open wide, empty grocery bags on the floor, whistling quietly.
 “It’s unbelievable, Noah. How long did the restoration take?”
 He looked up from the last bag he was unpacking. “Almost
 a year.
Did you do it all yourself?
No. I always thought I would when I was
 young, and I started that way. But it was just too much. It would
 have taken years, and so I ended up hiring some people. . .
 actually a lot of people. But even with them it was still a lot of
 work, and most of the time I didn’t stop until past midnight.
Why’d you work so hard?
I don’t know. Just wanted to finish, I guess. Do you want
 anything to drink before I start dinner?
What do you have?
Not much, really. Beer, tea, coffee.
Tea sounds good.
It’ll be just a minute,
this stove heats up pretty
 quick.
That’s fine.
I’m going to get the crabs in to marinate for a few minutes
 before I steam ‘em,
Can I give you a hand with something?
Sure. How about cutting
 up some vegetables to fry. There’s plenty in the icebox, and you
 can find a bowl over there.
How’s it going?
Good. I’m almost done here. Anything else for dinner?
I have some homemade bread that I was planning on.
 From a neighbour,
Aren’t you afraid they’ll pinch you?
No. Just grab ‘em like this,
I forget you’ve done this your whole life.
You want to sit on the porch for a few minutes? I’d like to
 let them marinate for a half-hour.
Sure,
You were sitting out here when I came, weren’t you?
Yeah. I sit out here every night. It’s a habit now.
I can see why,
So, what
 is it you do these days?
Actually, I don’t do anything but work on the house right
 now.
 It satisfies my creative urges.
How can you... I mean..."
 “Morris Goldman. My old boss from up north. He offered me
 a part of the business just as I enlisted, and died before I got
home. When I got back to the states, his lawyers gave me a
 cheque big enough to buy this place and fix it up.
You always told me you’d
 find a way to do it.
Do you remember sneaking over here the night you first
 told me about this place?
I got home a little late that
 evening, and my parents were furious when I finally came in. I
 can still picture my daddy standing in the living room smoking a
 cigarette, my mother on the sofa staring straight ahead. I swear,
 they looked as if a family member had died. That was the first
 time my parents knew I was serious about you, and my mother
 had a long talk with me later that night. She said to me, ‘I’m sure
 you think that I don’t understand what you’re going through, but I
 do. It’s just that sometimes our future is dictated by what we are,
 as opposed to what we want.’ I remember being really hurt
 when she said that.
You told me about it the next day. It hurt my feelings, too. I
 liked your parents and I had no idea they didn’t like me.
It wasn’t that they didn’t like you. They didn’t think you
 deserved me.
There’s not much difference.
I know that I always did. Maybe that’s why my mother and I
 always seem to have a distance between us when we talk.
How do you feel about it now?
The same as I did back then. That it’s wrong, that it isn’t
 fair. It was a terrible thing for a girl to learn, that status is more
 important than feelings.
I’ve thought about you ever since that summer,
You have?
Why wouldn’t you think so?
You never answered my letters.
You wrote?
Dozens of letters. I wrote to you for two years without
 receiving a single reply.
I
 didn’t know.. .
It was wrong of her to do that, Noah, and I’m sorry she did.
 But try to understand. Once I left, she probably thought it would
 be easier for me to just let it go. She never understood how
 much you meant to me, and, to be honest. I don’t even know if
 she ever loved my father the way I loved you. In her mind, she
 was just trying to protect my feelings, and she probably thought
 the best way to do that was to hide the letters you sent.
That wasn’t her decision to make,
I know.
Would it have made a difference even if you’d got them?
Of course. I always wondered what you were up to.
No, I mean with us. Do you think we would have made it’?
I don’t know, Noah. I
 really don’t, and you don’t either. We’re not the same people we
 were then. We’ve changed. Both of us.
But yes, Noah, I think
 we would have. At least, I’d like to think we would have.
What’s Lon
 like?
Lon’s handsome, charming and successful. He’s kind to
 me, he makes me laugh, and I know he loves me in his own
 way.
But there’s always going to
 be something missing in our relationship.
Why?
I
 guess I still look for the kind of love we had that summer.
How about you’?
Did you ever think about
 us?
All the time. I still do.
Are you seeing anyone’?
No,
I’m going to go and start the water. Can I get you anything’?
No, it’s not,
there’s nothing normal about any of this.
It’s going to take a few minutes,
That’s fine. I’m not that hungry yet.
I’m glad you came, Allie,
Me too. I almost didn’t, though.
Why did you come?
Just to see you, to find out what you’ve been up to. To see
 how you are.
By the way. I’ve been meaning
 to ask, do you still paint?
Not any more.
Why not? You have so much talent.
It’s a long story.
I’ve got all night,
Did you really think I was talented?
C’mon,
I want to show
 you something.
You kept it’?
Of course I kept it. It’s wonderful.
It makes
 me feel alive when I look at it. Sometimes I have to get up and
 touch it. It’s just so real—the shapes, the shadows, the colours.
 It’s incredible, Allie. You mean to tell me no one has ever told
 you that before?
My professor did,
but I guess I didn’t believe
 him.
I’ve been drawing and painting since I was a child. I
 guess that once I got a little older I began to think I was good at
 it. I enjoyed it too. I remember working on this painting that
 summer, adding to it every day, changing it as our relationship
 changed. I don’t even remember how it started or what I wanted
 it to be, but somehow it evolved into this.
 “I remember being unable to stop painting after I went home
 that summer. I think it was my way of avoiding the pain I was
going through. Anyway. I ended up majoring in art in college
 because it was something I had to do; I remember spending
 hours in the studio all by myself and enjoyed every minute. I
 loved the freedom I felt when I created, the way it made me feel
 to make something beautiful. Just before I graduated, my
 professor, who happened to also be the critic for the paper, told
 me I had a lot of talent. He told me I should try my luck as an
 artist. But I didn’t listen to him.
My parents didn
I’m not sure if I
 can paint any more. It’s been a long time.
You can still do it. Allie. I know you can. You have a talent
 that comes from inside you, from your heart, not from your
 fingers. What you have can’t ever go away. It’s what other
 people only dream about. You’re an artist, Allie.
Can I get the table ready?
Sure, plates are
 over there. Utensils and napkins there. Make sure you get
 plenty— crabs can be messy.
Have you ever had crab before?
A couple of times. But only in salads.
Then you’re in for an adventure. Hold on a
 sec?ond.
Here, put this on. I don’t want you to stain your dress.
Don’t worry.
it’s clean.
I know. It just reminds me of our first real
 date. You gave me your jacket that night, remember?
Be careful, they’re hot.
It looks like a bug.
A good bug, though,
Here, let me show you how
 it’s done.
So, tell me everything you’ve been up to since I
 saw you last,
How about the porch again?
It’s been quite a night.
Yes, it has.
a wonderful night.
Talk to me,
What should I say?
Talk like you did to me under the oak tree.
Are you tired?
A little. I should really he going in a couple of minutes.
I know.
I should go,
Keep it,
I want you to have it.
I had a great time tonight,
thank you for finding
 me.
I did, too,
Will I see you tomorrow?
I
 don’t think we should,
I’d like that.
Can you be here about noon?
Sure. What do you want to do?
You’ll see,
I know just the place to go.
Have I ever been there before?
No, but it’s a special place. You’ll love it.
See you tomorrow,
She’s engaged,
Are you all right?
Look there,
I can’t tonight, honey.
I’m sorry, but I can’t. Let me make it up to you later.
Miss?
Yes?
You had some calls last night.
I did?
Yes. All from a Mr. Hammond.
Lon called?
Yes, ma’am, four times. He was concerned about you. He
 said he was your fiancé.
Did he say anything? Is it an
 emergency?
He really didn’t say, miss.
 Actually, he sounded more concerned about you.
Miss?
Is it really almost twelve?
Yes, a quarter to.
Unfortunately,
he’s in court right now and I
 can’t reach him. If he does call again, could you tell him I’m
 shopping and that I’ll try to call him later?
Of course,
Thank you.
I’d appreciate it.
Hi,
where’s the surprise?
Not even a ‘good
 afternoon’ or ‘how was your night?’
Fine. Good afternoon. How was your night? And where’s
 the surprise?
Allie, I’ve got some bad
 news. I was going to take you someplace, but with those clouds
 coming in I’m not sure we should go.
Its not raining yet How far is it?
Up the creek about a mile.
And I’ve never been there before?
Not when it was like this.
Then we’ll go. I don’t
 care if it rains.
Are you sure?
Absolutely.
Then
 we’d better go now,
Can I bring that in for you?’
 She nodded, handing her bag to him, and he jogged to the
 house and took it inside, placing it on a chair in the living room.
 Then he grabbed some bread and put it in a bag, bringing it with
 him as he left the house.
 They walked to the canoe, Allie beside him. A little closer
 than yesterday.
 “What exactly is this place?
You’ll see.
You’re not even going to give me a hint?
Well,
do you remember when we took the canoe
 out and watched the sun come up?
I thought about it this morning. I remember it made me
 cry?’
 “What you’re going to sec today makes what you saw then
 seem ordinary?
 “I guess I should feel special.
You are special,
No, just get in.
What arc you thinking?
Good things,
How much further?
Another half-mile or so. Not any more than that.
Tell me, Noah, what do you
 remember most from the summer we spent together?
All of it.
Anything in particular?
No,
You don’t remember?
No, it’s not that. It’s not what you’re
 thinking. I was serious when I said ‘all of it.’ I can remember
 every moment we were together, and in each of them there was
 something wonderful. I can’t pick any one time that meant more
 than any other. The entire summer was perfect, the kind of
 summer everyone should have. How could I pick one moment
 over another?
 “Poets often describe love as an emotion that we can’t
 control, one that overwhelms logic and common sense. That’s
 what it was like for me. I didn’t plan on falling in love with you,
 and I doubt if you planned on falling in love with me. But once
 we met, it was clear that neither of us could control what was
 happening to us. We fell in love, despite our differences, and
 once we did, something rare and beautiful was created. For me,
 love like that has happened only once, and that’s why every
 minute we spent together has been seared in my memory. I’ll
 never forget a single moment of it.
I’m sorry if I made you feel uncomfortable, Allie. I didn’t
 mean to. But that summer has stayed with me and probably
 always will. I know it can’t be the same between us, but that
 doesn’t change the way I felt about you then.
It didn’t make me uncomfortable. Noah ... It’s just that I
 don’t ever hear things like that. What you said was beautiful. It
 takes a poet to talk the way you do. and like I said, you’re the
 only poet I’ve ever met.
there was comfort in knowing
 what the future would bring. He would be a kind husband and
 she would be a good wife. She would have a home near friends
 and family, children, a respectable place in society. It was the
 kind of life she
Here we are,
Where is it?
Here,
Close your eyes,
Okay.
You can
 open them now.
Oh. Noah,
it’s beautiful.
Noah, what are they doing here?
I don’t know. I know the swans from up north migrate to
 Lake Matamuskeet every winter, hut I guess they came here this
 time. I don’t know why. Maybe the early blizzard had something
 to do with it. Maybe they got off track or something. They’ll find
 their way back, though. They’re driven by instinct, and this isn’t
 their place. Some of the geese may winter here, hut the swans
 will go back to Matamuskeet.
I think I can find something here for you so you can get out
 of those clothes. It might be a little big, but it
Anything,
I’ll be back in a second.
Here,’ he said, handing her the cotton trousers and shirt.
 “You can change in the bedroom upstairs. There’s a bathroom
 and towel up there too if you want to shower.
I didn’t hear you come in.
How long have you been standing there?
A couple of minutes.
Can I get you some tea? I started the water while you
 were upstairs.
I have some bourbon in the pantry. Is that
 okay?
That sounds great.
It’s quite a storm,
I 
like it,
I’ve always liked
 thunderstorms. Even as a young girl.
Why?
I don’t know. They just always seemed romantic to me.
Do you remember
 sitting together and watching the storm a few nights before I
 left?
Of course.
I used to think about it all the time after I went home. I
 always thought about how you looked that night. It was the way I
remembered you.
Have I changed much?
Not really. Not in the things that I remember. You’re older,
 of course, with more life behind you, but you’ve still got the
 same gleam in your eye. You still read poetry and float on rivers.
 And you’ve still got a gentleness that not even the war could
 take away.
Allie, you asked me earlier what I remembered most about
 the summer. What do you remember?
I remember making
 love. That's what I remember most. You were my first, and it
 was more wonderful than I ever thought it would be.
I remember being so afraid beforehand that I
 was trembling, but at the same time being so excited. I'm glad
 you were the first. I'm glad we were able to share that.
Me too.
Were you as afraid as I was?
Do you remember walking home after the festival? I
 asked you if you wanted to see me again. You just nodded your
 head and didn't say a word. It wasn’t too convincing.
I'd never met anyone like you. I didn't know what to say.
I know. You could never hide anything. Your eyes always
 gave you away. You had the most wonderful eyes I'd ever seen.
I think
 I loved you more that summer than I ever loved anyone.
I wish you could have read the letters I wrote you,
t speak for a while.
 “It wasn
Why?
I guess I was too afraid.
Of what?
That maybe it wasn’t as real as I thought it was. That
 maybe you forgot me.
I would never do that. I couldn't even think it.
I know that now. I can see it when I took at you. But back
 then it was different. There was so much I didn't understand,
 things that a young girl's mind couldn't sort out.
What do you mean?”
 
t know what to think. I
 remember talking to my best friend about that summer, and she
 said that you had got what you wanted, and that she wasn
t write. I didn
In time, the hurt
 began to fade and it was easier to just let it go. At least I thought
 it was. But in every boy I met in the next few years I found
 myself looking for you, and when the feelings got too strong I'd
 write you another letter. But I never sent them for fear of what I
 might find. By then you'd gone on with your life and I didn't want
 to think about you loving-someone else. I wanted to remember
 us like we were that summer.
You're better than I remembered, Allie.
You're sweet, Noah.
d
 had so long ago.
 “I
m sweet. I
Noah, you've never
 asked, but I want you to know something.
What is it?
There's never been another, Noah.
 You weren't just the first. You're the only man-I've ever been
 with, I don’t expect you to say the same thing, but I wanted you
 to know.
t have been more perfect. It seemed their years
 apart didn
t take it any more, and when
 they finally joined as one, she cried aloud and pressed her
 fingers hard into his back. She buried her face in his neck and
 felt him deep inside her, felt his strength and gentleness.
 She opened her eyes and watched him in the firelight,
 marvelling at his beauty. She saw his body glisten with crystal
 sweat and felt every responsibility, every facet of her life,
 slipping away.
 By the time the rain had stopped and the sun had set, her
 body was exhausted. They spent the day in each other
s arms that night.
 Occasionally he would wake up and look at her, her body spent
 and radiant, and feel as if everything were suddenly tight in this
 world.
 Once, when he was looking at her in the moments before
 daybreak, her eyes fluttered open and she smiled and reached
 up to touch his face. He put his fingers to her lips, gently, to
 keep her from speaking, and for a long time they just looked at
 one another.
 When the lump in his throat subsided, he whispered to her,
 “You are the answer to every prayer I’ve offered. You are a
 song, a dream, a whisper, and I don
Oh, Noah,
d ever known.
The Notebook
CHAPTER SEVEN: AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR
 LATER THAT same morning, three men - two lawyers and
 the judge—sat in chambers while Lon finished speaking.
 “It’s an unusual request,” the judge answered, pondering
 the situation. “It seems to me the trial could very well end today.
 Are you saying this matter can
No, your honour, it cant,
And it has nothing to do with this case?
No, your honour. It's of a personal nature. I know it's out of
 the ordinary, but I really need to take care of it.
Mr. Bates, how do you feel about this?
Mr. Hammond called me this
 morning arid I've already spoken to my clients. They're willing to
 postpone until Monday. Mr. Hammond has agreed in return to
 reopen discussion on a certain matter not covered by this
 proceeding.
I don't like it,
not at all. But Mr. Hammond has never made such a
 request before, and I assume the matter is very important to
 him.
I'll agree to adjourn until Monday; Nine o'clock sharp.
Thank you, your honour.” Lon said.
 Two minutes later he was leaving the courthouse. He
 walked to the car he had parked directly across the street, got in
 and began the drive to New Bern, his hands shaking,
 NOAH MADE breakfast for Allie while she slept in the living
 room. Bacon, rolls and coffee, nothing spectacular. He set the
 tray beside her as she woke up, and as soon as they had
 finished eating they made love again, in powerful confirmation of
 what they had shared the day before.
 They showered and afterwards Allie put on her dress, which
 had dried overnight She spent the morning with Noah, Together
they fed Clem and checked the windows to make sure no
 damage bad been done in the storm. Two pine trees bad blown
 over, though neither had caused much damage, and a few
 shingles had Mown off the shed, but, other than that, the
 property had escaped unscathed.
 He held her hand most of the morning and they talked
 easily, but sometimes he would stop speaking and just stare at
 her. When he did, she felt as though she should say something,
 but nothing meaningful ever came into her head. She usually
 just kissed him.
 A little before noon, Noah and Allie went in to prepare
 lunch. Using what he had on hand, they tried some chicken and
 baked another batch of bread rolls, and the two of them ate on
 the porch, serenaded by a mockingbird.
 While they were inside doing the dishes* they heard a
 knock at the door, Noah left Allie in the kitchen.
 Knock, knock. Louder.
 Noah approached the door.
 Knock, knock.
 “I'm coming,” he said as he opened the door. “Oh, my God.”
 He stared for a moment at a beautiful woman in her early
 fifties, a woman he would have recognized anywhere.
 “Hello, Noah,” she said.
 Noah said nothing.
 “May I come in?
Who is it?
It's your mother.” Noah finally answered, and immediately
 after he said it he heard the sound of breaking glass.
 “I knew you would be here,” Anne Nelson said to her
 daughter as the three of them sat around the coffee table in the
 living room.
 “How could you be so sure?”
“You're my daughter. One day when you have kids of your
 own, you'll know the answer.” She smiled, but her manner was
 stiff, and Noah imagined how difficult this must be for her. “I saw
 the article, too, and I saw your reaction. I also saw how tense
 you've been during the last couple of weeks, and when you said
 you were going shopping near the coast, I knew exactly what
 you meant.”
 “What about daddy?”
 Anne Nelson shook her head, “No, I didn't tell your father or
 anyone else about it. Nor did I tell anyone where I was going
 today.”
 “Why did you come?” Allie asked.
 “I came because I had to,” her mother said, “which I'm sure
 is the same reason you came. Am I right?”
 Allie nodded.
 Anne turned to Noah. “I know you don't think so, but I
 always liked you. I just didn't think you were right for my
 daughter. Can you understand that?”
 He shook his head as he answered. “No, not really. It
 wasn’t fair to me, and it wasn't fair to Allie. Otherwise she
 wouldn't be here.”
 She watched him as he answered, but she said nothing.
 Allie, sensing an argument, cut in. “What do you mean when
 you say you had to come? Don't you trust me?”
 Anne turned back to her daughter. “This has nothing to do
 with trust. This has to do with Lon. He called the house last night
 to talk to me about Noah, and he's on his way here right now.
 He seemed very upset. I thought you'd want to know.”
 Allie inhaled sharply. “He's on his way?”
 “As we speak. He arranged to have the trial postponed until
 next week. If he's not in New Bern yet, he's close.”
 “What did you say to him?”
 
Did you tell him I was here?
No. And I won't. That's between you and him. But knowing
 him, I'm sure he'll find you. All it takes is a couple of phone calls
to the right people. After all, I was able to find you,
Thank you,
I know we've had our differences, Allie, and that we haven't
 seen eye to eye on everything. But I'm-your mother and that
 means I’ll always love you.
What should I do?
I don’t know, Allie, That's up to you. But I would think about
 it. Think about what you really want.”
 Allie turned away, her eyes reddening. A moment later a
 tear drifted down her cheek. “I don't know . . . ” She trailed off,
 and her mother squeezed her hand.
 Anne looked at Noah, who had been sitting with his head
 down, listening carefully. As if on cue, he returned her gaze,
 nodded and left the room.
 When he was gone, Anne whispered, “Do you love him?”
 “Yes, I do,” Allie answered softly, “very much.”
 “Do you love Lon?”
 “Yes, I do. I love him, too. Dearly, but in a different way. He
 doesn't make me feel the way Noah does.”
 “No one will ever do that,” her mother said, and she
 released Allie's hand. “I can't make this decision for you, Allie,
 this one's all yours. I want you to know, though, that I love you.
 And I always will. I know that doesn't help, but it's all I can do.”
 She reached in her handbag and removed a bundle of
 letters held together with string, the envelopes old and slightly
 yellowed.
 
t been opened. I know I shouldn
m sorry for that. But I was just
 trying to protect you. I didn
I should go, Allie. You've got some decisions to make, and
 you don't have much time. Do you want me to stay in town?”
 Allie shook her head, “No, this is up to me.”
 Anne nodded and watched her daughter for a moment,
 wondering. Finally she stood, went around the table, leaned
over and kissed Allie on the cheek. She could see the confusion
 in her daughter's eyes as Allie embraced her.
 They stood together for another minute, just holding each
 other.
 “Thanks for coming, Allie said, “I love you.”
 “I love you too.”
 As her mother made her way out of the living room, Allie
 thought that she heard her whisper, 
Goodbye Noah," she said quietly. He nodded without
 speaking. There wasn't anything else to say; they both knew
 that. She turned from him and left, closing the door behind her.
 Noah watched her dim away without looking back. She was a
 strong woman, he thought to himself, and he knew then where
 Allie got it
 Noah peeped into the living room, saw Allie sitting with her
 head down, then went to the back porch, knowing that she
 needed to be alone. He sat quietly in his rocker and watched the
 water
 After what seemed like an eternity he heard the back door
 open. He didn’t turn to look at her—for some reason he couldn’t
and he listened as she sat in the chair beside him.
 “I’m sorry,“ Allie said. 

 Noah shook his head. “Don't be sorry. We both knew it was
 coming to some form or another.”
 
I know.
Is
 here anything I can do to make it easier?
No. Not really. I have to do this alone.
 Besides, I'm not sure what I'm going to say to him yet.
I guess it depends
 on him and low much he knows. If my mother was right, he may
 have suspicions, but he doesn't know anything for sure.
You're
 not going to tell him about us, are you?
I don't know. I really don't. While I was in the living room, I
 kept asking myself what I really wanted in my life.
And do you know what the answer was?
 The answer was that I want you. I want us. I love you and I
 always have.
But I
 also want a happy ending without hurting anyone. And I know
 that if I stayed, people would be hurt. Especially Lon. I wasn't
 lying when I told you that I love him. He doesn't make me feel
 the same way you do, but I care for him, and this wouldn't be
 fair to him. But staying here would also hurt my family and
 friends. I would be betraying everyone I know ... I don't know if I
 can do that.
You can't live your life for other people. You've got to do
 what's right for you, even if it hurts some people you love.
I know,
but no matter what I choose I have to
 live with it. For ever. I have to be able to go forward and not look
 back any more. Can you understand that?
Not
 really. Not if it means losing you. I can't do that again.
t say anything but lowered her head. Noah went
 on: “Could you really leave me without looking back?”
 She bit her lip as she answered. Her voice was beginning to
 crack. “I don
Would that be fair to Lon?
t answer. Instead she stood up, wiped her face
 and walked to the edge of the porch where she leaned against
 the post and watched the water before answering quietly: “No.”
 “It doesn
We're adults
 now, we have the choice we didn't have before. We're meant to
 be together. We always have been.
I don't want to live the rest of my
 life thinking about you and dreaming of what might have been.
 Stay with me, Allie.
I don't know if I can,
You can. Allie ... I can't live my life happily knowing you're
 with someone else. That would kill a part of me. What we have
 is rare. It's too beautiful to just throw it away.
You're not going to stay,
 are you?
You want to, but you can't.
Oh, Noah,
try to
 understand—
I know what you're trying to
 say—I can see it in your eyes. But I don't want to understand it,
 Allie. I don't want it to end this way. I don't want it to end at all.
 But if you leave, we both know we'll never see each other
 again.
Allie, I can't force you to stay with me. But no matter what
 happens in my life, I'll never forget these last couple of days with
 you. I've been dreaming about this for years.
I have to get my things, Noah.
t go inside with her. Instead he sat down in the
 rocker, spent. He watched her go into the house and listened as
 the sound of her movements faded into nothing. She emerged
 minutes later with everything she
Here, Noah. I made this for you.
d copied it from a recent photograph. The second image
 was the front of the house. The detail there was also incredible,
 as if she had sketched it while sitting beneath the oak tree.
 “It
I
 told you that you were an artist.
d
 kissed.
 “I love you, Allie.”
 “I love you, too.”
 Noah opened her car door and they kissed one more time.
 Then she slid behind the wheel, never taking her eyes from him.
 She put the packet of letters and her handbag next to her on the
 seat and fumbled for the keys, then turned the ignition. It started
 easily and the engine began to turn over impatiently. It was
 almost time.
 Noah pushed her door closed with both hands and Allie
 rolled down the window. She reached out her hand and Noah
 took it for just a moment, moving his fingers softly against her
 skin.
 “Stay with me,” Noah mouthed without sound, and this for
 some reason hurt more than Allie would have expected. The
 tears began to fall hard now, but she couldn
Don't go!
t say anything, and a minute later the only
 remaining signs of her were the tracks that her car had left
 behind.
 She was gone. For ever this time. For ever. He closed his
 eyes.
 DRIVING WITH TEARS in her eyes was difficult, but Allie
 went on anyway. She kept the window rolled down, thinking the
 fresh air might help clear her mind, but it didn
s car sitting in the first spot. Although the one next
 to it was open, she passed it and picked a spot a little further
 from the entrance.
 She turned off the engine, then reached into the glove
 compartment for a mirror and brush. Looking at herself, she saw
 her eyes were still red and puffy. Like yesterday after the rain,
 she was sorry she didn
d done,
 memories of the summer, perhaps some questions. Instead she
 reached for the last letter, the one on the bottom of the stack.
 The goodbye letter. This one interested her far more. How had
 he said it? How would she have said it?
 The envelope was thin. One, maybe two pages. Whatever
 he had written wasn
t know what to say any more except that I couldn
t have ended another way.
 You and I were different. We came from different worlds,
 and yet you were the one who taught me the value of love. You
 showed me what it was like to care for another, and I am a
 better man because of it. I don
ll feel it too, and
 you
t delay any longer. Lon was waiting for
 her.
 Her legs felt weak as she stepped out of the car. She
 paused and took a deep breath, and as she started across the
 parking lot she realized that she still wasn
t finally come until she reached the
 door and opened it and saw Lon standing in the lobby.
The Notebook
CHAPTER EIGHT: WINTER FOR TWO
 THE STORY ends there, so I close the notebook, remove
 my glasses and wipe my eyes. I look at her now that I have
 finished, but she does not look back. Instead she is staring out
 of the window at the courtyard, where friends and family meet.
 I read to her this morning, as I do every morning, because it
 is something I must do. Not for duty—although I suppose a case
 could be made for this—but for another, more romantic reason. I
 wish I could explain it more fully right now, but it
t really possible before lunch any
 more, at least not for me. Besides, I have no idea how it
d rather not get my hopes up.
 We spend every day together now, but our nights are spent
 alone. The doctors tell me that I
ll come
 in and see her breathe and know that, had it not been for her, I
 would never have married.
 And when I look at her face, a face I know better than my
 own, I know that I have meant as much to her. And that means
 more to me than I could ever hope to explain.
 Sometimes, when I am standing there, I think about how
 lucky I am to have been married to her for almost forty-nine
 years. Next month it will be that long. She heard me snore for
 the first forty-five, but since then we have slept in separate
 rooms. I do not sleep well without her. I toss and turn and yearn
 for her warmth and lie there most of the night, eyes open wide,
 watching the shadows dance across the ceilings like
 tumbleweeds rolling across the desert. I sleep two hours if I am
 lucky, and still I wake before dawn.
 I shuffle towards her and sit in the chair beside her bed. My
 back aches when I sit. I must get a new cushion for this chair, I
 remind myself for the hundredth time. I reach for her hand and
take it, bony and fragile. It feels nice. She responds with a
 twitch, and gradually her thumb begins to rub my finger softly. I
 do not speak until she does; this I have learned. Most days I sit
 in silence until the sun goes down.
 Minutes pass before she finally turns to me. She is crying. I
 smile and release her hand, then reach in my pocket. I take out
 a handkerchief and wipe at her tears. She looks at me as I do
 so, and I wonder what she is thinking.
 “That was a beautiful story.”
 A light rain begins to fall. Little drops tap gently on the
 window. I take her hand again. It is going to be a good day, a
 very good day. A magical day. I smile, I can
Yes, it is,
Did you write it?
Yes,
t
 forget to take them. They bring mine here to her room now, even
 though they
I've heard it before, haven't I?
Yes,
It makes me feel less afraid,
I know.
Is it a true story?
I mean, did you know
 these people?
Yes,
t. She
 is still beautiful.
 She asks the obvious. “Well, which one did she finally
 marry?”
 I answer, “The one who was right for her.”
 “Which one was that?”
I smile. “You
by the end of the day.
 You'll know.
t sure how to do it.
 A bird starts to sing outside the window and we both turn
 our heads. We sit quietly for a while, enjoying something
 beautiful together. Then it is lost, and she sighs. “I have to ask
 you something else,” she says.
 “Whatever it is, I
It's hard, though.
Take your time,
I don't want to hurt your feelings because you've been so
 nice to me, but...
Who are you?
t want to, and I don
t here, they come alive in my mind every
 day, each of them, and they bring to mind the smiles and tears
 that come with raising a family. A dozen pictures line the walls of
 my room. They are my heritage, my contribution to the world. I
 am very proud. Sometimes I wonder what my wife thinks of
 them as she dreams, or if she thinks of them at all, or if she
 even dreams. There is so much about her I don
My name,
is Duke.
Duke,
Duke.
Yes,
I'm here for you.
I'm sorry. I don't understand anything that's
 happening to me right now. Even you. When I listen to you talk I
 feel like I should know you, but I don't. I don't even know my
 name.
Help me, Duke, help
 me remember who I am. Or at least, who I was. I feel so lost.
You are Hannah, a lover of life, a strength to those who
 shared in your friendships. You are a dream, a creator of
 happiness, an artist who has touched a thousand souls. You've
 led a full life and wanted for nothing, because your needs are
 spiritual and you have only to look inside you. You are kind and
 loyal, and you are able to see beauty where others do not. You
 are a teacher of wonderful lessons, a dreamer of better things.
s beautiful.
 “Would you stay with me a while?” she finally asks.
 I 
smile and nod. She smiles back. She reaches for my
 hand, takes it gently and pulls it to her waist. She stares at the
 hardened knots that deform my fingers and caresses them
 gently. Her hands are still those of an angel.
 “Come,” I say as I stand with great effort, “let
s beautiful
 today.” I am staring at her as I say these last few words. She
 blushes. It makes me feel young again.
 SHE WAS FAMOUS, of course. One of the best southern
 painters of the twentieth century, some said, and I was, and am,
 proud of her. Unlike me, who struggled to write even the
 simplest of verses, my wife could create beauty as easily as the
 Lord created the earth. Her paintings are in museums around
 the world, but I have kept only two for myself. The first one she
 ever gave me and the last one. They hang in my room, and late
 at night I sit and stare and sometimes cry when I look at them. I
 don
t be
 measured by our final years, of this I am sure, and I guess I
 should have known what lay ahead. Looking back, I suppose it
 seems obvious, but at first I thought her confusion
 understandable and not unique. She would forget where she
 placed her keys, but who has not done that? She would forget a
 neighbour
t find her way home, was the first day
 I was really frightened. And she was frightened, too, for when I
 tapped on her window, she turned to me and said, “Oh God,
 what
I'm so sorry to have to tell you this,
but you seem to be in the early stages of Alzheimer’s...”
 The words echoed in my head: the early stages of
 Alzheimer’s…
 My world spun in circles, and I felt her grip tighten on my
 arm. She whispered, almost to herself: 
Everything will be fine,
s continuing
 explanation.
 “It
s no way to
 tell how fast it will progress ... it differs from person to person. ...
 I wish I knew more. . . . Some days will be better than others. ...
 It will grow worse with the passage of time. . . . I
t remember leaving
 the doctor
t remember driving home. My
 memories of that day are gone, and in this my wife and I are the
 same.
 It has been four years now. Since then we have made the
 best of it, if that is possible. Allie organized, as was her
 disposition. She made arrangements to leave the house and
 move here. She rewrote her will and sealed it. She left specific
 burial instructions, and they sit in my desk, in the bottom drawer.
 I have not seen them. And when she was finished, she began to
 write. Letters to friends and children. Letters to brothers and
 sisters and cousins. Letters to nieces, nephews and neighbours.
 And a letter to me.
 I read it sometimes when I am in the mood and, when I do, I
 am reminded of Allie on cold winter evenings, seated by a
 roaring fire with a glass of wine at her side, reading the letters I
 had written to her over the years. She kept them, these letters,
 and now I keep them, for she made me promise to do so. She
 said I would know what to do with them. She was right; I find I
enjoy reading bits and pieces of them just as she used to. They
 intrigue me, for when I sift through them I realize that romance
 and passion are possible at any age. I see Allie now and know
 I
clock when I went to the
 desk and found the stack of letters, thick and weathered. I
 untied the ribbon, itself almost half a century old, and found the
 letters her mother had hidden so long ago and those from
 afterwards. A lifetime of letters, letters professing my love,
 letters from my heart. I glanced through them with a smile on my
 face, picking and choosing, and finally opened a letter from our
 first anniversary.
 I read an excerpt:
 When I see you now—moving slowly with new life growing
 inside you—I hope you know how much you mean to me, and
 how special this year has been. No man is more blessed than
 me, and I love you with all my heart.
 I 
put it aside and found another, this one from a cold
 evening thirty-nine years ago:
 Sitting next to you, while our youngest daughter sang off
key in the school Christmas show, I looked at you and saw a
 pride that comes only to those who feel deeply in their hearts,
 and I knew that no man could be luckier than me.
 And after our son died, the one who resembled his mother .
 . . It was the hardest time we ever went through, and the words
 still ring true today:
 In times of grief and sorrow I will hold you and rock you,
 and take your grief and make it my own. When you cry, I cry,
 and when you hurt, I hurt. And together we will try to hold back
 the floods of tears and despair and make it through.
 I pause for just a moment, remembering him. He was four
 years old at the time, just a baby. I have lived twenty times as
 long as he, but if asked, I would have traded my life for his. It is
 a terrible thing to outlive your child, a tragedy I wish upon no
 one.
They went on, this correspondence of life and love, and I
 read dozens more, some painful, most heart-warming. By three
 o
d been crying, and without a word I sat
 myself beside them at the table and held, their hands. And when
 I looked at them, I saw you from so long-ago, the day we said
 goodbye. They resemble you and how you were then, beautiful
 and sensitive and wounded with the hurt that comes when
 something special is taken away. And for a reason I
t be fair to him, he did not
 release your hand. I know he was hurt and angry, and tried for
 almost an hour to change your mind, but when you stood firm
 and said, “I can
m so sorry,” he knew that
 your decision had been made. You said he simply nodded and
 the two of you sat together for a long time without speaking. I
 have always wondered what he was thinking as he sat with you,
 but I
Oh, Daddy,
ve ever had, and
no matter what happens to us in the future, every day we are
 together is the greatest day of my life. I will always be yours.
 And, my darling, you will always be mine.
 Noah
 I put the pages aside and remember sitting with Allie on our
 porch when she read this letter for the first time. It was late
 afternoon and the last remnants of the day were fading. The sky
 was slowly changing colour, and as I watched the sun go down I
 remember thinking about that brief, flickering moment when day
 suddenly turns into night. Dusk, I realized, is just an illusion,
 because the sun is either above the horizon or below it. And that
 means that day and night are linked in a way that few things are;
 there cannot be one without the other, yet they cannot exist at
 the same time. How would it feel, I remember wondering, to be
 always together, yet forever apart? I know the answer now. I
 know what it
It's good to talk to you. I find that I miss it, even when it
 hasn't been that long.
Is this something we do often?
Do we sit here
 and watch the birds a lot? I mean, do we know each other well?
Yes and no. I think everyone has secrets, but we have
 been acquainted for years.
Were you ever married?
Yes.
What was she like?
She was my dream. She made me who I
 am, and holding her in my arms was more natural to me than
 my own heartbeat. I think about her all the time. Even now,
 when I'm sitting here, I think about her. There could never have
 been another.
t know how she feels about this.
 Finally she speaks softly, her voice angelic, sensual. I wonder if
 she knows I think these things. “Is she dead?”
 “My wife is alive in my heart. And she always will be,” I
 answer.
 “You still love her, don
Of course. But I love many things. I love to sit here with
 you. I love to watch the osprey swoop towards the creek and
 find its dinner. I love to share the beauty of this place with
 someone I care about.
t see
 her face. It has been her habit for years. “Why are you doing
 this?” No fear, just curiosity. This is good. I know what she
 means, but I ask anyway.
 “What?”
 “Why are you spending the day with me?”
 I smile. “I
m supposed to be.
 It
t dismiss my time with you—it
s what I want.
 I sit here and we talk and I think to myself, “What could be better
 than what I am doing now?”
 She looks me in the eyes, and for a moment, just a
 moment, her eyes twinkle. A slight smile forms on her lips. “I like
 being with you, but if getting me intrigued is what you
ve succeeded. I admit I enjoy your company, but I know
 nothing about you. I don
I read once that women love mysterious strangers.
See, you haven't really answered the question. You haven't
 answered most of my questions. You didn't even tell me how the
 story ended this morning.
Is it true
 that women love mysterious strangers?
I think some women do.
Do you?
Now don't go putting me on the spot. I don't know you well
 enough for that.
Do you see that bird?
Caspian stern,
t make me move it.
 SHE IS RIGHT about my evasiveness. On days like these,
 when only her memory is gone, I am vague in my answers
 because I
WHAT ARE you thinking?
I'm thinking about you.
I know you can't remember who you are, but I can, and I
 find that when I look at you it makes me feel good.
You're a kind man with a
 loving heart. I hope I enjoyed you as much before as I do now.
They're beautiful.
t know how
 much I have changed. She turns to me and stares for a long
 time.
 “What are you doing?” I ask.
 “I don
m trying to keep
 your memory alive.”
 Will it work this time? I wonder, then know it will not. It can
Thank you,
I mean it. I don't want to forget you again. You're very
 special to me. I don't know what I would have done without you
 today.
Don't try to say anything,
Let's just feel the
 moment.
s and are almost completely lost. They
 wake up hallucinating and confused. They repeat themselves
 over and over. Seldom do they recognize the people who love
 them. It is a trying disease, and this is why it is hard for their
 children and mine to visit.
Allie, of course, has her own problems. She is terribly afraid
 in the mornings and cries inconsolably. She sees tiny people,
 like gnomes, I think, watching her, and she screams at them to
 get away. She bathes willingly but will not eat regularly. She is
 thin now, much too thin in my opinion, and on good days I do my
 best to fatten her up.
 But this is where the similarity ends. This is why Allie is
 considered a miracle, because sometimes, just sometimes, after
 I read to her, her condition isn
It's impossible,
she cannot have
 Alzheimer's.
You can't
 possibly understand it if you use only your science training and
 your books,
Alzheimer's does not work like this. With her condition, it's just
 not possible to have a conversation or improve as the day goes
 on. Ever.
t seem
 to care.
She inhales slightly at the sight. Her eyes are wide. “Did
 you do this?”
 I nod and she walks into the room.
 “It looks beautiful.”
 I 
offer my arm in escort and lead her to the window. She
 doesn
I've never seen anything so beautiful, I'm sure of it,
I haven't, either,
I think I know who Allie went
 with at the end of the story.
Who?
She went with Noah.
You're sure?
Absolutely.
Yes, she did,
You're so beautiful,
s thinking. She gives me no clues and I gently
 squeeze her hand. I wait. I know her heart and I know I
You're wonderful...
t have to, and
 she gives me a look from another lifetime that makes me whole
 again. I smile back, with as much passion as I can muster, and
 we stare at each other with the feelings inside us rolling like
 ocean waves. I look about the room, then back at Allie, and the
 way she
m no longer cold or aching, or hunched over or
 almost blind with cataracts. I
I love you deeply and I hope
 you know that.
Of course I do,
I've always loved you, Noah.
 words, have
 triumphed again, at least for a moment. I give up the pretence of
 mystery, and I kiss her hand and bring it to my cheek and
 whisper in her ear: “You are the greatest thing that has ever
 happened to me.”
 “Oh . . . Noah,” she says with tears in her eyes, “I love you,
 too.”
 IF ONLY IT would end like this, I would be a happy man.
 But it won
m sure, for as time slips by I begin to
 see the signs of concern in her face.
. 
I 
“What
I'm so afraid. I'm afraid of forgetting you again. It isn't fair . .
 just can't bear to give this up.
t know what to say. I know the evening is
 coming to an end and there is nothing I can do to stop the
 inevitable. In this I am a failure.
 I 
ever.”
 finally tell her: “I
re
 so close! Not tonight! Any night but tonight. . . . Please! I can
t fair . . It isn
Those people,
are staring at
 me. Please make them stop.
There's no one there, Allie,
t believe me. “They
t
 see them?”
 “No,” I say, and she thinks for a moment.
 “Well, they
and they're staring at
 me.
Who are you?
What are you doing here?
Go away! Stay away from me!
t concentrate too well because I had a headache, so I
 put them aside and went to sit in my chair by the window to
 watch the sun come up. Allie would be awake in a couple of
 hours, I knew, and I wanted to be refreshed, for reading all day
 would only make my head hurt more.
 I closed my eyes for a few minutes then, opening them, I
 watched my old friend, the creek, roll by my window. Unlike Allie
 I had been given a room where I could see it, and it has never
 failed to inspire me. It is a contradiction this creek—a hundred
 thousand years old but renewed with each rainfall. It is life, I
 think, to watch the water. A man can learn so many things.
 It happened as I sat in the chair, just as the sun peeped
 over the horizon. My hand, I noticed, started to tingle, something
 it had never done before. I started to lift it, but I was forced to
 stop when my head pounded again, this time hard, almost as if I
 had been hit in the head with a hammer. I closed my eyes
 tightly. My hand stopped tingling and began to go numb, as if my
 nerves had been severed somewhere on my lower arm. A
 shooting pain rocked my head and seemed to flow down my
 neck and into every cell of my body, like a tidal wave, crushing
 and wasting everything in its path.
 I lost my sight and I heard what sounded like a train roaring
 inches from my head, and I knew that I was having a stroke.
 The pain coursed through my body like a lightning bolt, and in
 my last remaining moments of consciousness I pictured Allie,
 lying in her bed, waiting for the story I would never read, lost
 and confused, completely and totally unable to help herself.
 I 
WAS UNCONSCIOUS on and off for days, and in those
 moments when I was awake I found myself hooked to
 machines, two bags of fluid hanging near the bed. I could hear
 the faint hum of machines, sometimes making sounds I could
not recognize, and found myself lulled to never-never land time
 and time again.
 I 
could see the concern in the doctors
loss of speech, loss of
 movement, paralysis.
d leave, never knowing I heard every
 word. I tried not to think of these things afterwards, but instead
 concentrated on Allie, bringing a picture of her to my mind
 whenever I could. I tried to feel her touch, hear her voice, and
 when I did tears would fill my eyes because I didn
d imagined
 it would end. I
I'm thirsty,
Welcome back,
I knew you'd make it.
It's good to have you back. Allie's missed you and so have
 the rest of us. We were all praying for you because it's just not
 the same around here when you're gone.
m drawn to its mystery. I watch for
 hours, and as I do I see the reflection of clouds on the water. A
 storm is coming and in time the sky will turn silver, like dusk
 again.
 Lightning cuts the wild sky and I feel my mind drift back.
 Who are we, Allie and I? Are we ancient ivy on a cypress tree,
 tendrils and branches intertwined so closely that we would both
 die if we were forced apart? Another bolt and the table beside
 me is lit enough to enable me to see a picture of Allie, the best
 one I have. I had it framed years ago in the hope that the glass
 would make it last for ever. I reach for it and hold it inches from
 my face. She was forty-one when it was taken, and she had
 never been more beautiful. There are so many things I want to
 ask her, but I know the picture won
I
 am still yours, Allie, my queen, my timeless beauty. You are, and
 always have been, the best thing in my life.
How about some
 coffee?
t know how but you did, and you made it
 easier for me. Later, when we went to the small chapel and
 exchanged our rings and made our vows, I looked into your
 eyes and knew I had made the right decision. More than that, I
 knew I was foolish for ever considering someone else. I have
 never wavered since.
 We had a wonderful life together, and I think about it a lot
 now. I close my eyes sometimes and see you with speckles of
 grey in your hair, sitting on the porch and playing your guitar
 while little ones play and clap to the music you create. “You
s what I see when I look at you now, that
s about us. And perhaps,
 just perhaps, we will find a way to be together again.
Please don
s room.
 At this hour I am not supposed to leave my room, and Janice is
 never one to bend the rules.
 I wait to see if she will leave, but she does not and I grow
 impatient. I finally exit my room anyway, slow-shuffle, slide-the
right, slow-shuffle. It takes aeons to close the distance, but for
 some reason she does not see me approaching. I am a silent
 panther creeping through the jungle. In the end I am discovered,
 but I am not surprised. I stand before her.
 “Noah,” she says, “what are you doing?”
 “I
I can't sleep.
You know you're not supposed to do this.
I know.
t move, though. I am determined.
 “You
re going to
 see Allie.”
 “Yes,” I answer.
 “Noah, you know what happened the last time you saw her
 at night. You shouldn
I miss her.
I know you do, but I can't let you see her.
It's our anniversary,
I 
see.
Noah, I've seen hundreds of couples struggle
 with grief, but I've never seen anyone handle it like you do. No
one around here has ever seen anything like it.
I try to think
 what it's like for you, how you keep going day after day, but I
 can't imagine it. I don't know how you do it. You even beat her
 disease sometimes. Even though the doctors don't understand
 it, we nurses do. It's love—it's as simple as that. It's the most
 incredible thing I've ever seen.
But, Noah, you're not supposed to do this, and I can't let
 you. So go back to your room.
Me, I'm going downstairs for
 some coffee. I won't be back to check on you for a while, so
 don't do anything foolish.
t look back and suddenly I am alone. I look at
 where she had been sitting and see her coffee, a full cup, still
 steaming, and once again I learn that there are good people in
 the world.
 As I begin my trek to Allie
 station, and I push forward so that I
 will not be caught. I am young and strong, with passion in my
 heart, and I will break down the door and lift her in my arms and
 carry her to paradise.
 Who am I kidding? I lead a simple life now. I am foolish, an
 old man in love, a dreamer who dreams of nothing but reading
 to Allie and holding her whenever I can. I am a sinner with many
 faults and a man who believes in magic, but I am too old to
 change and too old to care.
 When I finally reach her room my body is weak. My legs
 wobble, my eyes are blurred. I struggle with the knob and in the
 end it takes two hands and three truckloads of effort. The door
opens and light from the hallway spills in, illuminating the bed
 where she sleeps.
 She is lying with the covers halfway up. After a moment I
 see her roll to one side, and her noises bring back memories of
 happier times. She looks small in her bed.
 I do not move, on this our anniversary, for almost a minute,
 and I long to tell her how I feel, but I stay quiet so I won
s ever sure.
 I 
think I hear someone coming, so I enter her room and
 close the door behind me. Blackness descends and I cross her
 floor from memory and reach the window. I open the curtains,
 and the moon stares back, large and full, the guardian of the
 evening. Though I know I should not, I sit on her bed while I slip
 the note beneath her pillow. Then I reach across and gently
 touch her face. I stroke her hair, and I feel wonder, like a
 composer first discovering the works of Mozart. She stirs and
 opens her eyes and I suddenly regret my foolishness, for I know
 she will begin to cry and scream, for this is what she always
 does. But I feel an urge to attempt the impossible and lean
 towards her, our faces drawing closer.
 When her lips meet mine, I feel a tingling I have never felt
 before, in all our years together, but I do not pull back. And
 suddenly a miracle, for I feel her mouth open and I discover a
 forgotten paradise, unchanged all this time, ageless like the
 stars. I feel the warmth of her body and allow myself to slip
 away, as I did so many years ago. I close my eyes and become
 a mighty ship in churning waters, strong and fearless, and she is
 my sails. I gently trace the outline of her cheek, then take her
 hand in mine. I kiss her lips, her cheeks, and listen as she takes
 a breath. She murmurs softly, “Oh, Noah . . . I
