Get that one!
Hey, kid,
hey, kid
W AIT,
I have to leave too, and I
it
it
it
There are two more scuttles down in the cellar. Will you fill them and
 bring them up? The door’s open.
Look at you, kid, just look at
 you!
You can’t go home like that. I’ll run you a bath and beat the dust out of
 your clothes.
Take your clothes off carefully, I don’t need black
 dust all over the kitchen.
Do you want to take a bath in your shoes and pants? I won’t look, kid.
Take the shampoo and wash
 your hair. I’ll bring a towel in a minute,
Come!
That’s why you’re here!
I…
You’re so beautiful!
Come on, kid, what are you talking about!
Why are you so late? Your mother was worried about
 you.
I had no money, so I had to
 walk home from Nussloch.
You could have hitched a ride.
Molkenkur and Nussloch are
 in completely opposite directions.
I’m going back to school tomorrow.
So pay attention in Geography. There’s north and there’s south, and the
 sun rises…
The doctor said another three
 weeks.
If he can get all the way across the cemetery to Nussloch and back, he
 can also go to school. It’s not his strength he’s lacking, it’s his brains.
What do you think?
 ‘I’m going back to school tomorrow’
that’s what you said, isn’t it?
Yes.
Let’s have you go back to school. If it gets to be too much
 for you, you’ll just stay home again.
What’s your name?
What?
What’s your name?
Why do you want to know?
You and I… I know your last name, but not your first. I want to know
 your first name. What’s the matter with…
Nothing, kid, there’s nothing wrong with that. My name is
 Hanna.
You looked at me so oddly.
I was still half asleep. What’s yours?
My name is Michael Berg.
Michael, Michael, Michael.
My kid’s called
 Michael, he’s in college.
In high school.
In high school, he’s what, seventeen?
He’s seventeen and when he grows up he wants to be a famous…
I don’t know what I want to be.
But you study hard.
Sort of.
I’ll have to repeat a class
 in any case.
What class?
Tenth grade. I’ve missed too much in the last months while I was ill. If I
 still wanted to move up next year I’d have to work like an idiot. I’d also have
 to be in school right now.
Out.
Get out of my bed. And if you don’t
 want to do your work, don’t come back. Your work is idiotic? Idiotic? What
 do you think selling and punching tickets is?
Two to Rohrbach.
Who still doesn’t have a ticket?
Idiotic-you don’t know what idiotic is.
I’m sorry. I’ll do my work. I
 don’t know if I’ll make it, school only has another six weeks to go. I’ll try.
 But I won’t get through it if I can’t see you anymore.
I can’t not see you.
You have to go.
From tomorrow on I’m working the main shift. I’ll be home at five-thirty
 and you can come. Provided you work first.
The things you ask, kid!
Are you also learning German?
How do you mean?
Do you only learn foreign languages, or is there still stuff you have to
 learn in your own?
We read texts.
So read it to me!
Read it yourself, I’ll bring it for you.
You have such a nice voice, kid, I’d rather listen to you than read it
 myself.
Oh, come on.
First you have to read.
Unbelievable!
Are you cutting school again?
I’m on vacation. What was going on this morning?
What do you mean, what was going on this morning?
Why did you behave as if you didn’t know me? I wanted…
I behaved as if I didn’t know you?
You didn’t want to know me. Getting into the second car when you
 could see I was in the first.
Why would I get up at four-thirty on my first day of vacation to ride to
 Schwetzingen? Just to surprise you, because I thought you’d be happy. I got
 into the second car…
You poor baby. Up at four-thirty, and on your vacation too.
How should I know why you’re going to Schwetzingen? How should I
 know why you choose not to know me? It’s your business, not mine. Would
 you leave now?
That’s not fair, Hanna. You knew,
 you had to know that I only got in the car to be with you. How can you
 believe I didn’t want to know you? If I didn’t, I would not have got on at all.
Oh, leave me alone. I already told you, what you do is your business, not
 mine.
I’m sorry, Hanna. Everything went wrong. I didn’t mean to upset you,
 but it looks…
It looks? You think it looks like you upset me? You don’t have the
 power to upset me. And will you please go, finally? I’ve been working, I
 want to take a bath, and I want a little peace.
Do you forgive me?
Do you love me?
The tub is still full. Come, I’ll bathe you.
You want to
 do it with me in the streetcar too? Kid, kid!
Are you starting that again?
So it was you who didn’t want to be seen
 with me
I’m too excited already.
 You’ll have worked it out right anyway, kid.
Kid, kid.
I like not having to worry
 about a thing for a change.
Good morning! Bringing breakfast, be
 right back,
How could you go just like that?
Hanna.
Don’t touch me.
Shall we have breakfast?
My God, kid, look at you.
And your shirt is
 covered with blood.
What was the matter? Why did you get so angry?
What was the matter, what was the matter-you always ask such silly
 questions. You can’t just leave like that.
But I left you a note…
Note?
I don’t understand. I wrote you a
 note saying I was going to get breakfast and I’d be right back.
You did? I don’t see any note.
You don’t believe me?
I’d love to believe you. But I don’t see any note.
Read me something, kid!
Customs
 collector-wasn’t much of a job?
Then steal them!
Are these books your father has just read, or did he write them too?
Read me something from them. Please, kid?
I…
Is that enough?
Will you write books
 like that some day?
Will you write other books?
I don’t know.
Will you write plays?
I don’t know, Hanna.
Berg, Sophia may be a Greek name, but that is no reason for you to
 study your neighbor in a Greek lesson. Translate!
Which animal
 do you see when you hold me and close your eyes and think of animals?
A horse.
A horse?
You don’t like it? It came to me because you feel so good, smooth and
 soft and all firm and strong underneath. And because your calf twitches.
Horse.
I don’t know…
I could call you
 Cheval or Pony or Little Equus. When I think of horses, I don’t think horse’s
 teeth or horse face or whatever it is that worries you, I think of something
 good, warm, soft, strong. You’re not a bunny or a kitten, and whatever there
 is in a tiger-that evil something-that’s not you either.
Yes, I like it when you call
 me Horse or those other horse names-can you explain them to me?
You know…
What?
You were sick with hepatitis for a long time. Is that what’s on your
 mind? Are you afraid you won’t really get well again? Did the doctors say
 something? And do you have to go to the clinic every day to get tests or
 transfusions?
No, Sophie, I’m not sick anymore. My liver is normal,
 and in a year I’ll even be able to drink alcohol if I want, but I don’t.
 What’s…
what’s bothering me.
There’s another reason I arrive later or leave earlier.
Do you not want to talk about it, or is it that you want to but you don’t
 know how?
Maybe I can tell you some other time.
The things you ask,
 kid!
Are you trying
 to make holes in me?
Laundry, ironing,
 sweeping, dusting, shopping, cooking, shake plums out of tree, pick up
 plums, bring plums home and cook them quick before the little one
eats them all himself.
What do you want now?
 Your whole life in one night?
What do you want now? Your whole life in one
 hour?
Let me bathe you, kid.
Now go to your friends.
Frau Schmitz? She moved out this morning.
And her furniture?
It’s not her furniture.
How long did she live in the apartment?
What’s it to you?
She called this morning early enough for us to arrange for a substitute,
 and said that she wouldn’t be coming back, period.
Two weeks ago she was sitting there in your chair and I offered to have her
 trained as a driver, and she throws it all away.
Hanna
What’s happened to you, what’s happened to you?
Look at the defendants-you won’t find a
 single one who really believes he had the dispensation to murder back then.
You enrolled voluntarily?
 “Yes.
Why?
 Hanna did not answer.
 “Is it true that you joined the SS even though Siemens had offered you a
 job as a foreman?
What do you mean by ‘even though’?
 Do you mean to suggest that a woman should prefer to become a foreman at
 Siemens than join the SS? There are no grounds for making my client’s
 decision the object of such a question.
Is her frequent change of residence supposed to be grounds for viewing
 her as a flight risk?
My client registered
 with the police each time she arrived at a new address and each time she left.
 There is no reason to assume she would run away, and there is nothing for
 her to hide. Did the judge feel it impossible to release my client on her own
 recognizance because of the gravity of the charges and the risk of public
 agitation? That, members of the court, is a Nazi rationale for custody; it was
 introduced by the Nazis and abolished after the Nazis. It no longer exists.
So you mean
So what you’re trying to say is
So you’re saying that the arresting judge misinterpreted the fact that the
 defendant ignored all letters and summonses, and did not present herself
 either to the police, or the prosecutor, or the judge? You wish to make a
 motion to lift the order of detention?
What happened at the selections?
None of you held back, you all acted together?
Yes.
Did you not know that you were sending the prisoners to their death?
Yes, but the new ones came, and the old ones had to make room for the
 new ones.
So because you wanted to make room, you said you and you and you
 have to be sent back to be killed?
I… I mean… so what would you have done?
There are matters one simply cannot get drawn into, that one must
 distance oneself from, if the price is not life and limb.
one
So should I have… should I have not… should I not have signed up at
 Siemens?
You stated that you knew you were sending the prisoners to their deaths
that was only true of you, wasn’t it? You cannot know what your colleagues
 knew. Perhaps you can guess at it, but in the final analysis you cannot judge,
 is that not so?
But we all knew…
Saying ‘we,’ ‘we all’ is easier than saying ‘I,’ ‘I alone,’ isn’t it? Isn’t it
 true that you and only you had special prisoners in the camp, young girls,
 first one for a period, and then another one?
I don’t think I was the only one who…
You dirty liar! Your favorites-all that was just you, no one else!
Is it possible that when you say ‘knew,’ the most you can actually do is
 assume, and that when you say ‘believe,’ you are actually just making things
 up?
And is it also true that once you were tired of your special prisoners,
 they all went back to Auschwitz with the next transport?
That was your special, your personal selection, wasn’t it? You don’t
 want to remember, you want to hide behind something that everyone did,
 but…
Oh God!
How could I have
 forgotten?
Yes, she had favorites, always one of the young ones who was weak and
 delicate, and she took them under her wing and made sure that they didn’t
 have to work, got them better barracks space and took care of them and fed
 them better, and in the evenings she had them brought to her. And the girls
 were never allowed to say what she did with them in the evening, and we
 assumed she was… also because they all ended up on the transports, as if she
 had had her fun with them and then had got bored. But it wasn’t like that at
 all, and one day one of them finally talked, and we learned that the girls read
 aloud to her, evening after evening after evening. That was better than if
 they… and better than working themselves to death on the building site. I
 must have thought it was better, or I couldn’t have forgotten it. But was it
 better?
Mare,
Death march?
No, death trot,
 death gallop.
W HY DID you not unlock the doors?
Ask
 that one there!
She wrote the report. She’s the guilty
 one, she did it all, and she wanted to use the report to cover it up and drag us
 into it.
Why
 did you not unlock the doors?
We were… we had…
We didn’t
 have any alternative.
You had no alternative?
Some of us were dead, and the others had left. They said they were
 taking the wounded to the field hospital and would come back, but they knew
 they weren’t coming back, and so did we. Perhaps they didn’t even go to the
 hospital, the wounded were not that badly hurt. We would have gone with
 them, but they said they needed the room for the wounded, and anyway they
 didn’t… they weren’t keen to have so many women along. I don’t know
 where they went.
What did you do?
We didn’t know what to do. It all happened so fast, with the priest’s
 house burning and the church spire, and the men and the cart were there one
 minute and gone the next, and suddenly we were alone with the women in the
 church. They left behind some weapons, but we didn’t know how to use
 them, and even if we had, what good would it have done, since we were only
 a handful of women? How could we have guarded all those women? A line
 like that is very long, even if you keep it as tight together as possible, and to
 guard such a long column, you need far more people than we had.
Then the screaming began and got worse and worse. If we had
 opened the doors and they had all come rushing out…
Were you afraid? Were you afraid the
 prisoners would overpower you?
That they would… no, but how could we have restored order? There
 would have been chaos, and we had no way to handle that. And if they’d tried
 to escape…
Were
 you afraid that if they escaped, you would be arrested, convicted, shot?
We couldn’t just let them escape! We were responsible for them… I
 mean, we had guarded them the whole time, in the camp and on the march,
 that was the point, that we had to guard them and not let them escape. That’s
 why we didn’t know what to do. We also had no idea how many of the
 women would survive the next few days. So many had died already, and the
 ones who were still alive were so weak…
What would you have done?
Did you write the report?
We all discussed what we should write. We didn’t want to hang any of
 the blame on the ones who had left. But we didn’t want to attract charges that
 we had done anything wrong either.
So you’re saying you talked it through together. Who wrote it?
You!
No, I didn’t write it. Does it matter who did?
My handwriting? You want my handwriting?…
You
 don’t have to call an expert. I admit I wrote the report.
But you cannot rule out that it was this defendant
who took the decisions?
Did anything
It has to do with the trial, doesn’t it?
Don’t you
 remember how furious you would get as a little boy when Mama knew better
 what was good for you? Even how far one can act like this with children is a
 real problem. It is a philosophical problem, but philosophy does not concern
 itself with children. It leaves them to pedagogy, where they’re not in very
 good hands. Philosophy has forgotten about children.
Forgotten them forever, not just sometimes, the way I forget about you.
But…
But with adults I see absolutely no justification for setting other people’s
 views of what is good for them above their own ideas of what is good for
 themselves.
Not even if they themselves are happy about it later?
We’re not talking about happiness, we’re talking
 about dignity and freedom. Even as a little boy, you knew the difference. It
 was no comfort to you that your mother was always right.
That’s how you like your philosophy?
Well, I didn’t know if one had to act in the circumstances I described,
 and I wasn’t really happy with the idea that one must, and if one really isn’t
 allowed to do anything at all, I find that…
I think that’s good
Appealing?
No, your problem has no appealing solution. Of course one must act if
 the situation as you describe it is one of accrued or inherited responsibility. If
 one knows what is good for another person who in turn is blind to it, then one
 must try to open his eyes. One has to leave him the last word, but one must
 talk to him, to him and not to someone else behind his back.
And what if you can’t talk to him?
I haven’t been able to help you.
No,
 you don’t have to go, it’s just that my back hurts.
I can’t say that I’m sorry I can’t help
 you. As a philosopher, I mean, which is how you were addressing me. As
 your father, I find the experience of not being able to help my children almost
 unbearable.
Well then…
You can come any time.
Ah, you want to understand why people can do such terrible things.
What is it
 you want to understand? That people murder out of passion, or love, or hate,
 or for honor or revenge, that you understand?
You also understand that people murder for money or power? That
 people murder in wars and revolutions?
But…
But the people who were murdered in the camps hadn’t done anything to
 the individuals who murdered them? Is that what you want to say? Do you
 mean that there was no reason for hatred, and no war?
You’re right, there was no war, and no reason for hatred. But
 executioners don’t hate the people they execute, and they execute them all the
 same. Because they’re ordered to? You think they do it because they’re
 ordered to? And you think that I’m talking about orders and obedience, that
 the guards in the camps were under orders and had to obey?
No, I’m not talking about orders and obedience. An
 executioner is not under orders. He’s doing his work, he doesn’t hate the
 people he executes, he’s not taking revenge on them, he’s not killing them
 because they’re in his way or threatening him or attacking him. They’re a
 matter of such indifference to him that he can kill them as easily as not.
No ‘buts’? Come on, tell me that one person cannot be
 that indifferent to another. Isn’t that what they taught you? Solidarity with
 everything that has a human face? Human dignity? Reverence for life?
Once,
I saw a photograph of Jews being shot in Russia.
 The Jews were in a long row, naked; some were standing at the edge of a pit
 and behind them were soldiers with guns, shooting them in the neck. It was in
 a quarry, and above the Jews and the soldiers there was an officer sitting on a
 ledge in the rock, swinging his legs and smoking a cigarette. He looked a
 little morose. Maybe things weren’t going fast enough for him. But there was
 also something satisfied, even cheerful about his expression, perhaps because
 the day’s work was getting done and it was almost time to go home. He
 didn’t hate the Jews. He wasn’t…
Was it you? Were you sitting on the ledge and…
Out!
Stop it!
Stop it!
Stop it!
Look,
Look!
We were in the same seminar-don’t you remember?
I do.
I was always at the trial on Wednesdays, and sometimes I gave you a
 lift.
You were there every day, every day and every week. Can
 you say why, now?
I was very interested in the trial.
You were very interested in the trial?
The trial, or
 the defendant you were always staring at? The only one who was reasonably
 good-looking. We all used to wonder what was going on between you and
 her, but none of us dared ask. We were so terribly sensitive and considerate
 back then. Do you remember…
So-what was going on between you and the defendant?
Bye,
Kid, the last story was especially nice. Thank you. Hanna.
She can write, she
 can write!
too late
late,
late
never
The forsythia is already in flower in the
 yard
I like the fact that there have been so many storms this summer
From my window I can see the birds flocking to fly south
Schnitzler barks, Stefan Zweig is a dead dog
Keller needs a woman
Goethe’s poems are like tiny paintings in
 beautiful frames
Lenz must write on a typewriter.
You’ve grown
 up, kid.
I’m glad you’re getting out.
You are?
Yes, and I’m glad you’ll be nearby.
Do you read a lot?
A little. Being read to is nicer.
That’s over now,
 isn’t it?
Why should it be over?
I was so glad and so proud of you when
 you learned to read. And what nice letters you wrote me!
Didn’t you ever think about the things that were discussed at the trial,
 before the trial? I mean, didn’t you ever think about them when we were
 together, when I was reading to you?
Does that bother you very much?
I
 always had the feeling that no one understood me anyway, that no one knew
 who I was and what made me do this or that. And you know, when no one
 understands you, then no one can call you to account. Not even the court
could call me to account. But the dead can. They understand. They don’t
 even have to have been there, but if they were, they understand even better.
 Here in prison they were with me a lot. They came every night, whether I
 wanted them or not. Before the trial I could still chase them away when they
 wanted to come.
Are you married?
I was. Gertrud and I have been divorced for many years and our
 daughter is at boarding school; I hope she won’t stay there for the last years
 of school, and will move in with me.
I’ll pick you up next week, all right?
All right.
Quietly, or can there be a little noise and hoopla?
Quietly.
Okay, I’ll pick you up quietly, with no music or champagne.
Take care, kid.
You too.
I’m a bit nervous. You know, normally people aren’t released after such
long sentences before spending a few hours or days outside. Frau Schmitz
 refused this. It won’t be easy for her.
Think about what we should do tomorrow. Whether you want to go
 straight home, or whether we might go to the woods or the river.
I’ll think about it. You’re still a big planner, aren’t you?
Don’t be
 cross, kid. I didn’t mean anything by it.
How did you get to know each other?
We lived in the same neighborhood.
We lived in the same neighborhood and we got to know each other and
 became friends. When I was a young student, I was at the trial that convicted
 her.
Why did you send Frau Schmitz cassettes?
You knew that she was illiterate, didn’t you? How did you know?
Come with me, I’ll show you
 Frau Schmitz’s cell.
Frau Schmitz
 didn’t pack. You’ll see her cell the way she lived in it.
They aren’t all here.
Frau Schmitz always lent some
 tapes to the aid society for blind prisoners.
Did Hanna read these?
Well, at least she ordered them with care. Several years ago I had to get
 her a general concentrationcamp bibliography, and then one or two years ago
 she asked me to suggest some books on women in the camps, both prisoners
 and guards; I wrote to the Institute for Contemporary History, and they sent a
 specialized bibliography. As soon as Frau Schmitz learned to read, she began
 to read about the concentration camps.
Spring lets its blue banner flutter through the air again,
Cloud
 shadows fly across the fields
She learned to read with you. She borrowed the books you read on tape
 out of the library, and followed what she heard, word by word and sentence
 by sentence. The tape machine couldn’t handle all that constant switching on
 and off, and rewinding and fast-forwarding. It kept breaking down and
 having to be repaired, and because that required permission, I finally found
 out what Frau Schmitz was doing. She didn’t want to tell me at first; when
 she also began to write, and asked me for a writing manual, she didn’t try to
hide it any longer. She was also just proud that she had succeeded, and
 wanted to share her happiness.
She so hoped you would write. You were the only one she got mail from,
 and when the mail was distributed and she said ‘No letter for me?’ she wasn’t
 talking about the packages the tapes came in. Why did you never write?
She left a letter for me, a sort of
 will. I’ll read the part that concerns you.
There is still money in the lavender tea tin. Give it to Michael Berg; he
 should send it, along with the 7,000 marks in the bank, to the daughter who
 survived the fire in the church with her mother. She should decide what to do
 with it. And tell him I say hello to him.
What was she like all those years?
And how was she these last few days?
For years and years she lived here the way you would live in a convent.
 As if she had moved here of her own accord and voluntarily subjected herself
 to our system, as if the rather monotonous work was a sort of meditation. She
 was greatly respected by the other women, to whom she was friendly but
 reserved. More than that, she had authority, she was asked for her advice
 when there were problems, and if she intervened in an argument, her decision
 was accepted. Then a few years ago she gave up. She had always taken care
 of herself personally, she was slender despite her strong build, and
 meticulously clean. But now she began to eat a lot and seldom washed; she
 got fat and smelled. She didn’t seem unhappy or dissatisfied. In fact it was as
 though the retreat to the convent was no longer enough, as though life in the
 convent was still too sociable and talkative, and she had to retreat even
 further, into a lonely cell safe from all eyes, where looks, clothing, and smell
 meant nothing. No, it would be wrong to say that she had given up. She
 redefined her place in a way that was right for her, but no longer impressed
 the other women.
And the last days?
She was the way she always was.
Can I see her?
Can the world become so unbearable
 to someone after years of loneliness? Is it better to kill yourself than to return
 to the world from the convent, from the hermitage?
Frau
 Schmitz didn’t write anything about why she was going to kill herself. And
 you won’t say what there was between you that might have led to Frau
 Schmitz’s killing herself at the end of the night before you were due to pick
 her up.
Her death is a blow to me, you see, and at the moment I’m very
 angry, at Frau Schmitz, and at you. But let’s go.
What brings you here?
Why me?
I suppose because you are the only survivor.
And how am I supposed to deal with it?
However you think fit.
And grant Frau Schmitz her absolution?
Could you not recognize it without granting her absolution?
You like her, don’t you? What was your relationship?
I read aloud to her. It started when I was fifteen
 and continued while she was in prison.
How did you…
I sent her tapes. Frau Schmitz was illiterate almost all her life; she only
 learned to read and write in prison.
Why did you do all this?
When I was fifteen, we had a relationship.
You mean you slept together?
Yes.
That woman was truly brutal… did you ever get over the fact that you
 were only fifteen when she… No, you said yourself that you began reading to
 her again when she was in prison. Did you ever get married?
And the marriage was short and unhappy, and you never married again,
 and the child, if there is one, is in boarding school.
That’s true of thousands of people, it doesn’t take a Frau Schmitz.
Did you ever feel, when you had contact with her in those last years, that
 she knew what she had done to you?
In any case, she knew what she had done to
 people in the camp and on the march. She didn’t just tell me that, she dealt
 with it intensively during her last years in prison.
How much
 money is it?
Here.
When I was a little girl, I had a tea tin for my treasures. Not like this,
 although these sorts of tea tins already existed, but one with Cyrillic letters,
 not one with a top you push in, but one you snap shut. I brought it with me to
 the camp, but then one day it was stolen from me.
What was in it?
What you’d expect. A piece of hair from our poodle. Tickets to the
 operas my father took me to, a ring I won somewhere or found in a package
the tin wasn’t stolen for what was in it. The tin itself, and what could be done
 with it, were worth a lot in the camp.
Do you have a suggestion for what to do with the money? Using it
 for something to do with the Holocaust would really seem like an absolution
 to me, and that is something I neither wish nor care to grant.
For illiterates who want to learn to read and write. There must be
 nonprofit organizations, foundations, societies you could give the money to.
I’m sure there are.
Are there corresponding Jewish organizations?
You can depend on it, if there are organizations for something, then
 there are Jewish organizations for it. Illiteracy, it has to be admitted, is hardly
 a Jewish problem.
Let’s
 do it this way. You find out what kind of relevant Jewish organizations there
 are, here or in Germany, and you pay the money to the account of the
 organization that seems most plausible to you.
If the
 recognition is so important, you can do it in the name of Hanna Schmitz.
I’ll keep the tin.
