s Grand 
Gallery. He lunged for the nearest painting he could see, a Caravaggio. Grabbing the gilded frame, 
the seventy-six-year-old man heaved the masterpiece toward himself until it tore from the wall and 
Saunière collapsed backward in a heap beneath the canvas.
 As he had anticipated, a thundering iron gate fell nearby, barricading the entrance to the suite. The 
parquet floor shook. Far off, an alarm began to ring.
 The curator lay a moment, gasping for breath, taking stock. I am still alive. He crawled out from 
under the canvas and scanned the cavernous space for someplace to hide.
 A voice spoke, chillingly close. "Do not move."
 On his hands and knees, the curator froze, turning his head slowly.
 Only fifteen feet away, outside the sealed gate, the mountainous silhouette of his attacker stared 
through the iron bars. He was broad and tall, with ghost-pale skin and thinning white hair. His 
irises were pink with dark red pupils. The albino drew a pistol from his coat and aimed the barrel 
through the bars, directly at the curator. "You should not have run." His accent was not easy to 
place. "Now tell me where it is."
 "I told you already," the curator stammered, kneeling defenseless on the floor of the gallery. "I 
have no idea what you are talking about!"
 "You are lying." The man stared at him, perfectly immobile except for the glint in his ghostly eyes. 
"You and your brethren possess something that is not yours."
 The curator felt a surge of adrenaline. How could he possibly know this?
 "Tonight the rightful guardians will be restored. Tell me where it is hidden, and you will live." The 
man leveled his gun at the curator
Is it a secret you will die for?
Wait,
I will tell you what you need to 
know.
Yes. This is exactly what the 
others told me.
I found them, too,
All three of them. They confirmed what you have just 
said.
s true identity, along with the identities of his three sénéchaux, was 
almost as sacred as the ancient secret they protected. Saunière now realized his sénéchaux, 
following strict procedure, had told the same lie before their own deaths. It was part of the 
protocol.
 The attacker aimed his gun again. "When you are gone, I will be the only one who knows the 
truth."
 The truth. In an instant, the curator grasped the true horror of the situation. If I die, the truth will be 
lost forever. Instinctively, he tried to scramble for cover.
 The gun roared, and the curator felt a searing heat as the bullet lodged in his stomach. He fell 
forward... struggling against the pain. Slowly, Saunière rolled over and stared back through the 
bars at his attacker.
 The man was now taking dead aim at Saunière
s eyes flew open.
 The man glanced down at his weapon, looking almost amused. He reached for a second clip, but 
then seemed to reconsider, smirking calmly at Saunière
My work here is done.
Algérie, the curator had witnessed this horribly drawn
out death before. For fifteen minutes, he would survive as his stomach acids seeped into his chest 
cavity, slowly poisoning him from within.
 "Pain is good, monsieur," the man said.
 Then he was gone.
 Alone now, Jacques Saunière turned his gaze again to the iron gate. He was trapped, and the doors 
could not be reopened for at least twenty minutes. By the time anyone got to him, he would be 
dead. Even so, the fear that now gripped him was a fear far greater than that of his own death.
 I must pass on the secret.
 Staggering to his feet, he pictured his three murdered brethren. He thought of the generations who 
had come before them... of the mission with which they had all been entrusted.
 An unbroken chain of knowledge.
 Suddenly, now, despite all the precautions... despite all the fail-safes... Jacques Saunière was the 
only remaining link, the sole guardian of one of the most powerful secrets ever kept.
 Shivering, he pulled himself to his feet.
 I must find some way....
 He was trapped inside the Grand Gallery, and there existed only one person on earth to whom he 
could pass the torch. Saunière gazed up at the walls of his opulent prison. A collection of the 
world
Hello?
Monsieur Langdon?
s voice said. "I hope I have not awoken you?"
 Dazed, Langdon looked at the bedside clock. It was 12:32 A.M. He had been asleep only an hour, 
but he felt like the dead.
 "This is the concierge, monsieur. I apologize for this intrusion, but you have a visitor. He insists it 
is urgent."
 Langdon still felt fuzzy. A visitor? His eyes focused now on a crumpled flyer on his bedside table.
 THE AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF PARIS
 proudly presents
 AN EVENING WITH ROBERT LANGDON
 PROFESSOR OF RELIGIOUS SYMBOLOGY,
 HARVARD UNIVERSITY
 Langdon groaned. Tonight
I'm sorry,
but I'm very tired and—
Mais, monsieur,
Your guest is 
an important man.
s visibility had increased a hundredfold 
after his involvement in a widely publicized incident at the Vatican. Since then, the stream of self
important historians and art buffs arriving at his door had seemed never-ending.
 "If you would be so kind," Langdon said, doing his best to remain polite, "could you take the man
ll try to call him before I leave Paris on Tuesday? Thank you." He 
hung up before the concierge could protest.
 Sitting up now, Langdon frowned at his bedside Guest Relations Handbook, whose cover boasted: 
SLEEP LIKE A BABY IN THE CITY OF LIGHTS. SLUMBER AT THE PARIS RITZ. He 
turned and gazed tiredly into the full-length mirror across the room. The man staring back at him 
was a stranger—tousled and weary.
 You need a vacation, Robert.
 The past year had taken a heavy toll on him, but he didn
s embarrassment, Boston Magazine had listed him as one of that 
city
Ladies and gentlemen...
s Pavilion Dauphine, "Our guest tonight needs no introduction. He is the author of numerous 
books: The Symbology of Secret Sects, The An of the Illuminati, The Lost Language of Ideograms, 
and when I say he wrote the book on Religious Iconology, I mean that quite literally. Many of you 
use his textbooks in class."
 The students in the crowd nodded enthusiastically.
"I had planned to introduce him tonight by sharing his impressive curriculum vitae. However..." 
She glanced playfully at Langdon, who was seated onstage. "An audience member has just handed 
me a far more, shall we say... intriguing introduction."
 She held up a copy of Boston Magazine.
 Langdon cringed. Where the hell did she get that?
 The hostess began reading choice excerpts from the inane article, and Langdon felt himself sinking 
lower and lower in his chair. Thirty seconds later, the crowd was grinning, and the woman showed 
no signs of letting up. "And Mr. Langdon
s Vatican conclave certainly wins him points on our intrigue-o-meter." The hostess goaded the 
crowd. "Would you like to hear more?"
 The crowd applauded.
 Somebody stop her, Langdon pleaded as she dove into the article again.
 "Although Professor Langdon might not be considered hunk-handsome like some of our younger 
awardees, this forty-something academic has more than his share of scholarly allure. His 
captivating presence is punctuated by an unusually low, baritone speaking voice, which his female 
students describe as 
 "
 The hall erupted in laughter.
 Langdon forced an awkward smile. He knew what came next—some ridiculous line about 
"Harrison Ford in Harris tweed"—and because this evening he had figured it was finally safe again 
to wear his Harris tweed and Burberry turtleneck, he decided to take action.
 "Thank you, Monique," Langdon said, standing prematurely and edging her away from the 
podium. "Boston Magazine clearly has a gift for fiction." He turned to the audience with an 
embarrassed sigh. "And if I find which one of you provided that article, I

 The crowd laughed.
 
m here tonight to talk about the power of symbols..."
 The ringing of Langdon
Yes?
Mr. Langdon, again my apologies. I am calling to inform you 
that your guest is now en route to your room. I thought I should alert you.
You sent someone to my room?
I apologize, monsieur, but a man like this... I cannot presume the authority to stop him.
Who exactly is he?
s door.
 Uncertain, Langdon slid off the bed, feeling his toes sink deep into the savonniere carpet. He 
donned the hotel bathrobe and moved toward the door. "Who is it?"
 "Mr. Langdon? I need to speak with you." The man
My name is Lieutenant Jerome Collet. Direction Centrale Police Judiciaire.
May I come in?
s sallow eyes studied him. "What is this all 
about?"
 "My capitaine requires your expertise in a private matter."
 "Now?" Langdon managed. "It

 

 Langdon felt a sudden surge of uneasiness. He and the revered curator Jacques Saunière had been 
slated to meet for drinks after Langdon's lecture tonight, but Saunière had never shown up. 

 



 The agent gave a dire sigh and slid a Polaroid snapshot through the narrow opening in the door.
 When Langdon saw the photo, his entire body went rigid.
 

 As Langdon stared at the bizarre image, his initial revulsion and shock gave way to a sudden 
upwelling of anger. 

 

 Langdon stared at the picture, his horror now laced with fear. The image was gruesome and 
profoundly strange, bringing with it an unsettling sense of déjà vu. A little over a year ago, 
Langdon had received a photograph of a corpse and a similar request for help. Twenty-four hours 
later, he had almost lost his life inside Vatican City. This photo was entirely different, and yet 
something about the scenario felt disquietingly familiar.
 The agent checked his watch. 

 Langdon barely heard him. His eyes were still riveted on the picture. 

 
 the agent offered.
 Langdon nodded, feeling a chill as he looked up. 
t imagine who would do this to someone."
 The agent looked grim. "You don
 
He paused. 

 CHAPTER 2
 One mile away, the hulking albino named Silas limped through the front gate of the luxurious 
brownstone residence on Rue La Bruyère. The spiked cilice belt that he wore around his thigh cut 
into his flesh, and yet his soul sang with satisfaction of service to the Lord.
 Pain is good.
His red eyes scanned the lobby as he entered the residence. Empty. He climbed the stairs quietly, 
not wanting to awaken any of his fellow numeraries. His bedroom door was open; locks were 
forbidden here. He entered, closing the door behind him.
 The room was spartan—hardwood floors, a pine dresser, a canvas mat in the corner that served as 
his bed. He was a visitor here this week, and yet for many years he had been blessed with a similar 
sanctuary in New York City.
 The Lord has provided me shelter and purpose in my life.
 Tonight, at last, Silas felt he had begun to repay his debt. Hurrying to the dresser, he found the cell 
phone hidden in his bottom drawer and placed a call.
 
 a male voice answered.
 

 
 the voice commanded, sounding pleased to hear from him.
 

 There was a momentary pause, as if for prayer. 

 

 

 

 An excited breath. 
s reputation for secrecy might prevail."
 "The prospect of death is strong motivation."
 "So, my pupil, tell me what I must know."
 Silas knew the information he had gleaned from his victims would come as a shock. "Teacher, all 
four confirmed the existence of the clef de voûte... the legendary keystone."
 He heard a quick intake of breath over the phone and could feel the Teacher
The 
keystone. Exactly as we suspected.
s greatest secret... 
information so powerful that its protection was the reason for the brotherhood
When we possess the keystone,
we will be only one step away.
We are closer than you think. The keystone is here in Paris.
Paris? Incredible. It is almost too easy.
s ancient churches—the Eglise de Saint-Sulpice.
 "Inside a house of the Lord," the Teacher exclaimed. "How they mock us!"
 "As they have for centuries."
 The Teacher fell silent, as if letting the triumph of this moment settle over him. Finally, he spoke. 
"You have done a great service to God. We have waited centuries for this. You must retrieve the 
stone for me. Immediately. Tonight. You understand the stakes."
 Silas knew the stakes were incalculable, and yet what the Teacher was now commanding seemed 
impossible. "But the church, it is a fortress. Especially at night. How will I enter?"
 With the confident tone of a man of enormous influence, the Teacher explained what was to be 
done.
 When Silas hung up the phone, his skin tingled with anticipation.
 One hour, he told himself, grateful that the Teacher had given him time to carry out the necessary 
penance before entering a house of God. I must purge my soul of today
s suffering. The pain caused by the device also helped counteract the desires of 
the flesh.
Although Silas already had worn his cilice today longer than the requisite two hours, he knew 
today was no ordinary day. Grasping the buckle, he cinched it one notch tighter, wincing as the 
barbs dug deeper into his flesh. Exhaling slowly, he savored the cleansing ritual of his pain.
 Pain is good, Silas whispered, repeating the sacred mantra of Father Josemaría Escrivá—the 
Teacher of all Teachers. Although Escrivá had died in 1975, his wisdom lived on, his words still 
whispered by thousands of faithful servants around the globe as they knelt on the floor and 
performed the sacred practice known as "corporal mortification."
 Silas turned his attention now to a heavy knotted rope coiled neatly on the floor beside him. The 
Discipline. The knots were caked with dried blood. Eager for the purifying effects of his own 
agony, Silas said a quick prayer. Then, gripping one end of the rope, he closed his eyes and swung 
it hard over his shoulder, feeling the knots slap against his back. He whipped it over his shoulder 
again, slashing at his flesh. Again and again, he lashed.
 Castigo corpus meum.
 Finally, he felt the blood begin to flow.
 CHAPTER 3
 The crisp April air whipped through the open window of the Citroën ZX as it skimmed south past 
the Opera House and crossed Place Vendôme. In the passenger seat, Robert Langdon felt the city 
tear past him as he tried to clear his thoughts. His quick shower and shave had left him looking 
reasonably presentable but had done little to ease his anxiety. The frightening image of the 
curator
s death. Despite Saunière
s favorite classroom texts. Tonight
s body flashed in his mind. Jacques Saunière did that to himself? 
Langdon turned and looked out the window, forcing the picture from his mind.
 Outside, the city was just now winding down—street vendors wheeling carts of candied amandes, 
waiters carrying bags of garbage to the curb, a pair of late night lovers cuddling to stay warm in a 
breeze scented with jasmine blossom. The Citroën navigated the chaos with authority, its dissonant 
two-tone siren parting the traffic like a knife.
 "Le capitaine was pleased to discover you were still in Paris tonight," the agent said, speaking for 
the first time since they
A fortunate coincidence.
I assume,
that the American University of Paris told you where I was staying?
Interpol.
Did you mount her?
I beg your pardon?
She is lovely, no?
Have 
you mounted her?
No, I haven't climbed the tower.
She is the symbol of France. I think she is perfect.
t 
slow. The agent gunned the sedan across the junction and sped onto a wooded section of Rue 
Castiglione, which served as the northern entrance to the famed Tuileries Gardens—Paris
s famous red roofing tiles—or tuiles.
 As they entered the deserted park, the agent reached under the dash and turned off the blaring siren. 
Langdon exhaled, savoring the sudden quiet. Outside the car, the pale wash of halogen headlights 
skimmed over the crushed gravel parkway, the rugged whir of the tires intoning a hypnotic rhythm. 
Langdon had always considered the Tuileries to be sacred ground. These were the gardens in which 
Claude Monet had experimented with form and color, and literally inspired the birth of the 
Impressionist movement. Tonight, however, this place held a strange aura of foreboding.
 The Citroën swerved left now, angling west down the park
Orsay. Glancing left, he 
could make out the top of the ultramodern Pompidou Center, which housed the Museum of Modern 
Art. Behind him to the west, Langdon knew the ancient obelisk of Ramses rose above the trees, 
marking the Musée du Jeu de Paume.
 But it was straight ahead, to the east, through the archway, that Langdon could now see the 
monolithic Renaissance palace that had become the most famous art museum in the world.
 Musée du Louvre.
 Langdon felt a familiar tinge of wonder as his eyes made a futile attempt to absorb the entire mass 
of the edifice. Across a staggeringly expansive plaza, the imposing facade of the Louvre rose like a 
citadel against the Paris sky. Shaped like an enormous horseshoe, the Louvre was the longest 
building in Europe, stretching farther than three Eiffel Towers laid end to end. Not even the million 
square feet of open plaza between the museum wings could challenge the majesty of the facade
s entire perimeter, an astonishing three-mile 
journey.
Despite the estimated five days it would take a visitor to properly appreciate the 65,300 pieces of 
art in this building, most tourists chose an abbreviated experience Langdon referred to as "Louvre 
Lite"—a full sprint through the museum to see the three most famous objects: the Mona Lisa, 
Venus de Milo, and Winged Victory. Art Buchwald had once boasted he
Monsieur Langdon 
est arrivé. Deux minutes.
You will meet the capitaine at the main 
entrance.
s main entrance was visible now, rising boldly in the 
distance, encircled by seven triangular pools from which spouted illuminated fountains.
 La Pyramide.
 The new entrance to the Paris Louvre had become almost as famous as the museum itself. The 
controversial, neomodern glass pyramid designed by Chinese-born American architect I. M. Pei 
still evoked scorn from traditionalists who felt it destroyed the dignity of the Renaissance 
courtyard. Goethe had described architecture as frozen music, and Pei
s seventy-one-foot
tall transparent pyramid as a dazzling synergy of ancient structure and modern method—a 
symbolic link between the old and new—helping usher the Louvre into the next millennium.
 "Do you like our pyramid?" the agent asked.
 Langdon frowned. The French, it seemed, loved to ask Americans this. It was a loaded question, of 
course. Admitting you liked the pyramid made you a tasteless American, and expressing dislike 
was an insult to the French.
 "Mitterrand was a bold man," Langdon replied, splitting the difference. The late French president 
who had commissioned the pyramid was said to have suffered from a "Pharaoh complex." 
Singlehandedly responsible for filling Paris with Egyptian obelisks, art, and artifacts.
 François Mitterrand had an affinity for Egyptian culture that was so all-consuming that the French 
still referred to him as the Sphinx.
 "What is the captain
 Langdon asked, changing topics.

 the driver said, approaching the pyramid's main entrance. 

 Langdon glanced over at him, wondering if every Frenchman had a mysterious animal epithet. 


 The man arched his eyebrows. 

 My French stinks, Langdon thought, but my zodiac iconography is pretty good. Taurus was always 
the bull. Astrology was a symbolic constant all over the world.
 The agent pulled the car to a stop and pointed between two fountains to a large door in the side of 
the pyramid. 

 
re not coming?"
 "My orders are to leave you here. I have other business to attend to."
 Langdon heaved a sigh and climbed out. It
m trapped in a Salvador Dali painting, he thought.
 Langdon strode to the main entrance—an enormous revolving door. The foyer beyond was dimly 
lit and deserted.
 Do I knock?
 Langdon wondered if any of Harvard
I am Bezu Fache,
Captain of the 
Central Directorate Judicial Police.
Robert Langdon.
s enormous palm wrapped around Langdon
I saw the photo,
Your agent said Jacques Saunière himself did—
Mr. Langdon,
s ebony eyes locked on. "What you see in the photo is only the beginning of 
what Saunière did."
 CHAPTER 4
 Captain Bezu Fache carried himself like an angry ox, with his wide shoulders thrown back and his 
chin tucked hard into his chest. His dark hair was slicked back with oil, accentuating an arrow-like 
widow
s presence was 
anything but welcoming, and the Louvre itself had an almost sepulchral aura at this hour. The 
staircase, like the aisle of a dark movie theater, was illuminated by subtle tread-lighting embedded 
in each step. Langdon could hear his own footsteps reverberating off the glass overhead. As he 
glanced up, he could see the faint illuminated wisps of mist from the fountains fading away outside 
the transparent roof.
 "Do you approve?" Fache asked, nodding upward with his broad chin.
 Langdon sighed, too tired to play games. "Yes, your pyramid is magnificent."
 Fache grunted. "A scar on the face of Paris."
 Strike one. Langdon sensed his host was a hard man to please. He wondered if Fache had any idea 
that this pyramid, at President Mitterrand
s newly constructed 70,000-square
foot lobby spread out like an endless grotto. Constructed in warm ocher marble to be compatible 
with the honey-colored stone of the Louvre facade above, the subterranean hall was usually vibrant 
with sunlight and tourists. Tonight, however, the lobby was barren and dark, giving the entire space 
a cold and crypt-like atmosphere.
 "And the museum
 Langdon asked.
 
 Fache replied, sounding as if Langdon were questioning the integrity of Fache's 
team. 

 Langdon nodded, moving quickly to keep pace with Fache.
 
 the captain asked.
 
d never met."
 Fache looked surprised. "Your first meeting was to be tonight?"
 "Yes. We

 Fache scribbled some notes in a little book. As they walked, Langdon caught a glimpse of the 
Louvre's lesser-known pyramid—La Pyramide Inversée—a huge inverted skylight that hung from 
the ceiling like a stalactite in an adjoining section of the entresol. Fache guided Langdon up a short 
set of stairs to the mouth of an arched tunnel, over which a sign read: DENON. The Denon Wing 
was the most famous of the Louvre's three main sections.
 
s meeting?" Fache asked suddenly. "You or he?"
 The question seemed odd. "Mr. Saunière did," Langdon replied as they entered the tunnel. "His 
secretary contacted me a few weeks ago via e-mail. She said the curator had heard I would be 
lecturing in Paris this month and wanted to discuss something with me while I was here."
"Discuss what?"
 "I don

 Fache looked skeptical. 

 Langdon did not. He'd been curious at the time but had not felt comfortable demanding specifics. 
The venerated Jacques Saunière had a renowned penchant for privacy and granted very few 
meetings; Langdon was grateful simply for the opportunity to meet him.
 

 The pointedness of the question made Langdon uncomfortable. 
t imagine. I didn
m an admirer of Mr. Saunière

 Fache made note of that fact in his book.
 The two men were now halfway up the Denon Wing's entry tunnel, and Langdon could see the 
twin ascending escalators at the far end, both motionless.
 
 Fache asked.
 
ve spent much of the last year writing the draft for a book that deals with Mr. 
Saunière

 Fache glanced up. 

 The idiom apparently didn't translate. 

 

 Langdon hesitated, uncertain exactly how to put it. 

 Fache ran a meaty hand across his hair. 

 

 

Langdon sensed Fache did not see at all. Jacques Saunière was considered the premiere goddess 
iconographer on earth. Not only did Saunière have a personal passion for relics relating to fertility, 
goddess cults, Wicca, and the sacred feminine, but during his twenty-year tenure as curator, 
Saunière had helped the Louvre amass the largest collection of goddess art on earth—labrys axes 
from the priestesses' oldest Greek shrine in Delphi, gold caducei wands, hundreds of Tjet ankhs 
resembling small standing angels, sistrum rattles used in ancient Egypt to dispel evil spirits, and an 
astonishing array of statues depicting Horus being nursed by the goddess Isis.
 
 Fache offered. 

 Langdon shook his head. 
s still in draft form, 
and I haven

 Fache fell silent.
 Langdon did not add the reason he hadn't yet shown the manuscript to anyone else. The three
hundred-page draft—tentatively titled Symbols of the Lost Sacred Feminine—proposed some very 
unconventional interpretations of established religious iconography which would certainly be 
controversial.
 Now, as Langdon approached the stationary escalators, he paused, realizing Fache was no longer 
beside him. Turning, Langdon saw Fache standing several yards back at a service elevator.
 
ll take the elevator," Fache said as the lift doors opened. "As I
re aware, the gallery 
is quite a distance on foot."
 Although Langdon knew the elevator would expedite the long, two-story climb to the Denon Wing, 
he remained motionless.
 "Is something wrong?" Fache was holding the door, looking impatient.
 Langdon exhaled, turning a longing glance back up the open-air escalator. Nothing
d suffered a haunting phobia of enclosed spaces—elevators, subways, 
squash courts. The elevator is a perfectly safe machine, Langdon continually told himself, never 
believing it. It
You and Mr. Saunière,
you never spoke at all? Never 
corresponded? Never sent each other anything in the mail?
No. Never.
s tie clip—a silver crucifix with thirteen 
embedded pieces of black onyx. Langdon found it vaguely surprising. The symbol was known as a 
crux gemmata—a cross bearing thirteen gems—a Christian ideogram for Christ and His twelve 
apostles. Somehow Langdon had not expected the captain of the French police to broadcast his 
religion so openly. Then again, this was France; Christianity was not a religion here so much as a 
birthright.
 "It
 Fache said suddenly.
 Startled, Langdon glanced up to find Fache's eyes on him in the reflection.
 The elevator jolted to a stop, and the doors opened.
 Langdon stepped quickly out into the hallway, eager for the wide-open space afforded by the 
famous high ceilings of the Louvre galleries. The world into which he stepped, however, was 
nothing like he expected.
 Surprised, Langdon stopped short.
 Fache glanced over. 

 I guess not, Langdon thought, trying to get his bearings.
 Usually impeccably illuminated, the Louvre galleries were startlingly dark tonight. Instead of the 
customary flat-white light flowing down from above, a muted red glow seemed to emanate upward 
from the baseboards—intermittent patches of red light spilling out onto the tile floors.
 As Langdon gazed down the murky corridor, he realized he should have anticipated this scene. 
Virtually all major galleries employed red service lighting at night—strategically placed, low-level, 
noninvasive lights that enabled staff members to navigate hallways and yet kept the paintings in 
relative darkness to slow the fading effects of overexposure to light. Tonight, the museum 
possessed an almost oppressive quality. Long shadows encroached everywhere, and the usually 
soaring vaulted ceilings appeared as a low, black void.
 
 Fache said, turning sharply right and setting out through a series of interconnected 
galleries.
 Langdon followed, his vision slowly adjusting to the dark. All around, large-format oils began to 
materialize like photos developing before him in an enormous darkroom... their eyes following as 
he moved through the rooms. He could taste the familiar tang of museum air—an arid, deionized 
essence that carried a faint hint of carbon—the product of industrial, coal-filter dehumidifiers that 
ran around the clock to counteract the corrosive carbon dioxide exhaled by visitors.
 Mounted high on the walls, the visible security cameras sent a clear message to visitors: We see 
you. Do not touch anything.
 
 Langdon asked, motioning to the cameras.
 Fache shook his head. 

 Langdon was not surprised. Video surveillance in museums this size was cost-prohibitive and 
ineffective. With acres of galleries to watch over, the Louvre would require several hundred 
technicians simply to monitor the feeds. Most large museums now used 
 
Forget keeping thieves out. Keep them in. Containment was activated after hours, and if an intruder 
removed a piece of artwork, compartmentalized exits would seal around that gallery, and the thief 
would find himself behind bars even before the police arrived.
 The sound of voices echoed down the marble corridor up ahead. The noise seemed to be coming 
from a large recessed alcove that lay ahead on the right. A bright light spilled out into the hallway.
 
 the captain said.
 As he and Fache drew nearer the alcove, Langdon peered down a short hallway, into Saunière's 
luxurious study—warm wood, Old Master paintings, and an enormous antique desk on which stood 
a two-foot-tall model of a knight in full armor. A handful of police agents bustled about the room, 
talking on phones and taking notes. One of them was seated at Saunière's desk, typing into a 
laptop. Apparently, the curator's private office had become DCPJ's makeshift command post for the 
evening.
 
 Fache called out, and the men turned. 

 Everyone inside the office nodded their understanding.
 Langdon had hung enough NE PAS DERANGER signs on hotel room doors to catch the gist of the 
captain's orders. Fache and Langdon were not to be disturbed under any circumstances.
 Leaving the small congregation of agents behind, Fache led Langdon farther down the darkened 
hallway. Thirty yards ahead loomed the gateway to the Louvre's most popular section—la Grande 
Galerie—a seemingly endless corridor that housed the Louvre's most valuable Italian masterpieces. 
Langdon had already discerned that this was where Saunière's body lay; the Grand Gallery's 
famous parquet floor had been unmistakable in the Polaroid.
As they approached, Langdon saw the entrance was blocked by an enormous steel grate that looked 
like something used by medieval castles to keep out marauding armies.
 
 Fache said, as they neared the grate.
 Even in the darkness, the barricade looked like it could have restrained a tank. Arriving outside, 
Langdon peered through the bars into the dimly lit caverns of the Grand Gallery.
 
 Fache said.
 Langdon turned. After me, where?
 Fache motioned toward the floor at the base of the grate.
 Langdon looked down. In the darkness, he hadn't noticed. The barricade was raised about two feet, 
providing an awkward clearance underneath.
 
 Fache said. 
 He motioned to the opening. 

 Langdon stared at the narrow crawl space at his feet and then up at the massive iron grate. He's 
kidding, right? The barricade looked like a guillotine waiting to crush intruders.
 Fache grumbled something in French and checked his watch. Then he dropped to his knees and 
slithered his bulky frame underneath the grate. On the other side, he stood up and looked back 
through the bars at Langdon.
 Langdon sighed. Placing his palms flat on the polished parquet, he lay on his stomach and pulled 
himself forward. As he slid underneath, the nape of his Harris tweed snagged on the bottom of the 
grate, and he cracked the back of his head on the iron.
 Very suave, Robert, he thought, fumbling and then finally pulling himself through. As he stood up, 
Langdon was beginning to suspect it was going to be a very long night.
 CHAPTER 5
 Murray Hill Place—the new Opus Dei World Headquarters and conference center—is located at 
243 Lexington Avenue in New York City. With a price tag of just over $47 million, the 133,000
square-foot tower is clad in red brick and Indiana limestone. Designed by May & Pinska, the 
building contains over one hundred bedrooms, six dining rooms, libraries, living rooms, meeting 
rooms, and offices. The second, eighth, and sixteenth floors contain chapels, ornamented with mill
work and marble. The seventeenth floor is entirely residential. Men enter the building through the 
main doors on Lexington Avenue. Women enter through a side street and are 
 from the men at all times within the building.
 Earlier this evening, within the sanctuary of his penthouse apartment, Bishop Manuel Aringarosa 
had packed a small travel bag and dressed in a traditional black cassock. Normally, he would have 
wrapped a purple cincture around his waist, but tonight he would be traveling among the public, 
and he preferred not to draw attention to his high office. Only those with a keen eye would notice 
his 14-karat gold bishop's ring with purple amethyst, large diamonds, and hand-tooled mitre
crozier appliqué. Throwing the travel bag over his shoulder, he said a silent prayer and left his 
apartment, descending to the lobby where his driver was waiting to take him to the airport.
 Now, sitting aboard a commercial airliner bound for Rome, Aringarosa gazed out the window at 
the dark Atlantic. The sun had already set, but Aringarosa knew his own star was on the rise. 
Tonight the battle will be won, he thought, amazed that only months ago he had felt powerless 
against the hands that threatened to destroy his empire.
 As president-general of Opus Dei, Bishop Aringarosa had spent the last decade of his life spreading 
the message of 
s Work"—literally, Opus Dei. The congregation, founded in 1928 by the 
Spanish priest Josemaría Escrivá, promoted a return to conservative Catholic values and 
encouraged its members to make sweeping sacrifices in their own lives in order to do the Work of 
God.
 Opus Dei
s regime, but 
with the 1934 publication of Josemaría Escrivá
s Work in one
s message exploded across the world. Now, with 
over four million copies of The Way in circulation in forty-two languages, Opus Dei was a global 
force. Its residence halls, teaching centers, and even universities could be found in almost every 
major metropolis on earth. Opus Dei was the fastest-growing and most financially secure Catholic 
organization in the world. Unfortunately, Aringarosa had learned, in an age of religious cynicism, 
cults, and televangelists, Opus Dei
Many call Opus Dei a brainwashing cult,
Others call you an 
ultraconservative Christian secret society. Which are you?
Opus Dei is neither,
We are a Catholic Church. We are a 
congregation of Catholics who have chosen as our priority to follow Catholic doctrine as rigorously 
as we can in our own daily lives.
Does God's Work necessarily include vows of chastity, tithing, and atonement for sins through 
self-flagellation and the cilice?
You are describing only a small portion of the Opus Dei population,
There are 
many levels of involvement. Thousands of Opus Dei members are married, have families, and do 
God's Work in their own communities. Others choose lives of asceticism within our cloistered 
residence halls. These choices are personal, but everyone in Opus Dei shares the goal of bettering 
the world by doing the Work of God. Surely this is an admirable quest.
Hardly the pastime of a devout Catholic,
s popular website—www.odan.org—relayed frightening 
stories from former Opus Dei members who warned of the dangers of joining. The media was now 
referring to Opus Dei as "God
 and 

 We fear what we do not understand, Aringarosa thought, wondering if these critics had any idea 
how many lives Opus Dei had enriched. The group enjoyed the full endorsement and blessing of 
the Vatican. Opus Dei is a personal prelature of the Pope himself.
 Recently, however, Opus Dei had found itself threatened by a force infinitely more powerful than 
the media... an unexpected foe from which Aringarosa could not possibly hide. Five months ago, 
the kaleidoscope of power had been shaken, and Aringarosa was still reeling from the blow.
 
 Aringarosa whispered to himself, staring out the plane's 
window at the darkness of the ocean below. For an instant, his eyes refocused, lingering on the 
reflection of his awkward face—dark and oblong, dominated by a flat, crooked nose that had been 
shattered by a fist in Spain when he was a young missionary. The physical flaw barely registered 
now. Aringarosa's was a world of the soul, not of the flesh.
As the jet passed over the coast of Portugal, the cell phone in Aringarosa's cassock began vibrating 
in silent ring mode. Despite airline regulations prohibiting the use of cell phones during flights, 
Aringarosa knew this was a call he could not miss. Only one man possessed this number, the man 
who had mailed Aringarosa the phone.
 Excited, the bishop answered quietly. 

 
 the caller said. 

 Bishop Aringarosa smiled. 

 

 

 When Aringarosa switched off the phone, his heart was pounding. He gazed once again into the 
void of night, feeling dwarfed by the events he had put into motion.
 Five hundred miles away, the albino named Silas stood over a small basin of water and dabbed the 
blood from his back, watching the patterns of red spinning in the water. Purge me with hyssop and 
I shall be clean, he prayed, quoting Psalms. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.
 Silas was feeling an aroused anticipation that he had not felt since his previous life. It both 
surprised and electrified him. For the last decade, he had been following The Way, cleansing 
himself of sins... rebuilding his life... erasing the violence in his past. Tonight, however, it had all 
come rushing back. The hatred he had fought so hard to bury had been summoned. He had been 
startled how quickly his past had resurfaced. And with it, of course, had come his skills. Rusty but 
serviceable.
 Jesus' message is one of peace... of nonviolence... of love. This was the message Silas had been 
taught from the beginning, and the message he held in his heart. And yet this was the message the 
enemies of Christ now threatened to destroy. Those who threaten God with force will be met with 
force. Immovable and steadfast.
 For two millennia, Christian soldiers had defended their faith against those who tried to displace it. 
Tonight, Silas had been called to battle.
 Drying his wounds, he donned his ankle-length, hooded robe. It was plain, made of dark wool, 
accentuating the whiteness of his skin and hair. Tightening the rope-tie around his waist, he raised 
the hood over his head and allowed his red eyes to admire his reflection in the mirror. The wheels 
are in motion.
CHAPTER 6
 Having squeezed beneath the security gate, Robert Langdon now stood just inside the entrance to 
the Grand Gallery. He was staring into the mouth of a long, deep canyon. On either side of the 
gallery, stark walls rose thirty feet, evaporating into the darkness above. The reddish glow of the 
service lighting sifted upward, casting an unnatural smolder across a staggering collection of Da 
Vincis, Titians, and Caravaggios that hung suspended from ceiling cables. Still lifes, religious 
scenes, and landscapes accompanied portraits of nobility and politicians.
 Although the Grand Gallery housed the Louvre's most famous Italian art, many visitors felt the 
wing's most stunning offering was actually its famous parquet floor. Laid out in a dazzling 
geometric design of diagonal oak slats, the floor produced an ephemeral optical illusion—a multi
dimensional network that gave visitors the sense they were floating through the gallery on a surface 
that changed with every step.
 As Langdon's gaze began to trace the inlay, his eyes stopped short on an unexpected object lying 
on the floor just a few yards to his left, surrounded by police tape. He spun toward Fache. 

 Fache nodded without even looking.
 The painting, Langdon guessed, was worth upward of two million dollars, and yet it was lying on 
the floor like a discarded poster. 

 Fache glowered, clearly unmoved. 

 Langdon looked back at the gate, trying to picture what had happened.
 

 Langdon felt confused. 

 Fache shook his head. 
 Fache pointed toward an 
orange tag hanging from one of the bars on the gate under which they had just passed. 

Langdon pictured the photograph of Saunière's body. They said he did that to himself. Langdon 
looked out at the enormous corridor before them. 

 Fache straightened his cruciform tie clip and began to walk. 

 The exact length, if Langdon recalled correctly, was around fifteen hundred feet, the length of three 
Washington Monuments laid end to end. Equally breathtaking was the corridor's width, which 
easily could have accommodated a pair of side-by-side passenger trains. The center of the hallway 
was dotted by the occasional statue or colossal porcelain urn, which served as a tasteful divider and 
kept the flow of traffic moving down one wall and up the other.
 Fache was silent now, striding briskly up the right side of the corridor with his gaze dead ahead. 
Langdon felt almost disrespectful to be racing past so many masterpieces without pausing for so 
much as a glance.
 Not that I could see anything in this lighting, he thought.
 The muted crimson lighting unfortunately conjured memories of Langdon's last experience in 
noninvasive lighting in the Vatican Secret Archives. This was tonight's second unsettling parallel 
with his near-death in Rome. He flashed on Vittoria again. She had been absent from his dreams 
for months. Langdon could not believe Rome had been only a year ago; it felt like decades. 
Another life. His last correspondence from Vittoria had been in December—a postcard saying she 
was headed to the Java Sea to continue her research in entanglement physics... something about 
using satellites to track manta ray migrations. Langdon had never harbored delusions that a woman 
like Vittoria Vetra could have been happy living with him on a college campus, but their encounter 
in Rome had unlocked in him a longing he never imagined he could feel. His lifelong affinity for 
bachelorhood and the simple freedoms it allowed had been shaken somehow... replaced by an 
unexpected emptiness that seemed to have grown over the past year.
 They continued walking briskly, yet Langdon still saw no corpse. 

 

 Langdon turned, appalled. 

 

 

 
 He pointed farther down the hall. 

 Langdon lifted his gaze and followed Fache's outstretched finger. At first he thought Fache was 
pointing to a large marble statue in the middle of the hallway. As they continued, though, Langdon 
began to see past the statue. Thirty yards down the hall, a single spotlight on a portable pole stand 
shone down on the floor, creating a stark island of white light in the dark crimson gallery. In the 
center of the light, like an insect under a microscope, the corpse of the curator lay naked on the 
parquet floor.
 
 Fache said, 

 Langdon felt a deep chill as they approached the body. Before him was one of the strangest images 
he had ever seen.
 The pallid corpse of Jacques Saunière lay on the parquet floor exactly as it appeared in the 
photograph. As Langdon stood over the body and squinted in the harsh light, he reminded himself 
to his amazement that Saunière had spent his last minutes of life arranging his own body in this 
strange fashion.
 Saunière looked remarkably fit for a man of his years... and all of his musculature was in plain 
view. He had stripped off every shred of clothing, placed it neatly on the floor, and laid down on 
his back in the center of the wide corridor, perfectly aligned with the long axis of the room. His 
arms and legs were sprawled outward in a wide spread eagle, like those of a child making a snow 
angel... or, perhaps more appropriately, like a man being drawn and quartered by some invisible 
force.
 Just below Saunière's breastbone, a bloody smear marked the spot where the bullet had pierced his 
flesh. The wound had bled surprisingly little, leaving only a small pool of blackened blood.
 Saunière's left index finger was also bloody, apparently having been dipped into the wound to 
create the most unsettling aspect of his own macabre deathbed; using his own blood as ink, and 
employing his own naked abdomen as a canvas, Saunière had drawn a simple symbol on his 
flesh—five straight lines that intersected to form a five-pointed star.
 The pentacle.
 The bloody star, centered on Saunière's navel, gave his corpse a distinctly ghoulish aura. The photo 
Langdon had seen was chilling enough, but now, witnessing the scene in person, Langdon felt a 
deepening uneasiness.
 He did this to himself.
 
 Fache's dark eyes settled on him again.
 
s a pentacle," Langdon offered, his voice feeling hollow in the huge space. "One of the oldest 
symbols on earth. Used over four thousand years before Christ."
 "And what does it mean?"
 Langdon always hesitated when he got this question. Telling someone what a symbol "meant" was 
like telling them how a song should make them feel—it was different for all people. A white Ku 
Klux Klan headpiece conjured images of hatred and racism in the United States, and yet the same 
costume carried a meaning of religious faith in Spain.
 "Symbols carry different meanings in different settings," Langdon said. "Primarily, the pentacle is 
a pagan religious symbol."
 Fache nodded. "Devil worship."
 "No," Langdon corrected, immediately realizing his choice of vocabulary should have been clearer.
 Nowadays, the term pagan had become almost synonymous with devil worship—a gross 
misconception. The word
Pagans
s fear of those who lived in the rural villes that 
the once innocuous word for "villager"—villain—came to mean a wicked soul.
 "The pentacle," Langdon clarified, "is a pre-Christian symbol that relates to Nature worship. The 
ancients envisioned their world in two halves—masculine and feminine. Their gods and goddesses 
worked to keep a balance of power. Yin and yang. When male and female were balanced, there 
was harmony in the world. When they were unbalanced, there was chaos." Langdon motioned to 
Saunière
This pentacle is representative of the female half of all things—a concept 
religious historians call the 'sacred feminine' or the 'divine goddess.' Saunière, of all people, would 
know this.
Saunière drew a goddess symbol on his stomach?
In its most specific interpretation, the pentacle symbolizes 
Venus—the goddess of female sexual love and beauty.
Early religion was based on the divine order of Nature. The goddess Venus and the planet Venus 
were one and the same. The goddess had a place in the nighttime sky and was known by many 
names—Venus, the Eastern Star, Ishtar, Astarte—all of them powerful female concepts with ties to 
Nature and Mother Earth.
s most astonishing property—the graphic origin of its 
ties to Venus. As a young astronomy student, Langdon had been stunned to learn the planet Venus 
traced a perfect pentacle across the ecliptic sky every four years. So astonished were the ancients to 
observe this phenomenon, that Venus and her pentacle became symbols of perfection, beauty, and 
the cyclic qualities of sexual love. As a tribute to the magic of Venus, the Greeks used her four
year cycle to organize their Olympiads. Nowadays, few people realized that the four-year schedule 
of modern Olympic Games still followed the cycles of Venus. Even fewer people knew that the 
five-pointed star had almost become the official Olympic seal but was modified at the last 
moment—its five points exchanged for five intersecting rings to better reflect the games
Mr. Langdon,
Obviously, the pentacle must also relate to the devil. Your 
American horror movies make that point clearly.
s apartment along with other 
alleged demonic symbology. Langdon was always frustrated when he saw the symbol in this 
context; the pentacle
I assure you,
despite what you see in the movies, the pentacle's demonic 
interpretation is historically inaccurate. The original feminine meaning is correct, but the 
symbolism of the pentacle has been distorted over the millennia. In this case, through bloodshed.
I'm not sure I follow.
s crucifix, uncertain how to phrase his next point. "The Church, sir. 
Symbols are very resilient, but the pentacle was altered by the early Roman Catholic Church. As 
part of the Vatican

 

 
 Langdon continued. 
s trident 
became the devil
s pointed hat became the symbol of a witch, and 
Venus
 Langdon paused. 
s now our foremost symbol of war. We paint it on all our 
fighter jets and hang it on the shoulders of all our generals." So much for the goddess of love and 
beauty.
 "Interesting." Fache nodded toward the spread-eagle corpse. "And the positioning of the body? 
What do you make of that?"
 Langdon shrugged. "The position simply reinforces the reference to the pentacle and sacred 
feminine."
 Fache
I beg your pardon?
Replication. Repeating a symbol is the simplest way to strengthen its meaning. Jacques Saunière 
positioned himself in the shape of a five-pointed star.
s eyes followed the five points of Saunière
Interesting analysis.
And the nudity?
Why did he remove his 
clothing?
d been wondering the same thing ever since he first 
saw the Polaroid. His best guess was that a naked human form was yet another endorsement of 
Venus—the goddess of human sexuality. Although modern culture had erased much of Venus
s original meaning in the word "venereal." Langdon decided not to go there.
 "Mr. Fache, I obviously can

 

 

 Fache was silent a moment. 

 
m sorry?"
"Look at his left hand."
 Langdon
s pale arm to his left hand but saw nothing. 
Uncertain, he circled the corpse and crouched down, now noting with surprise that the curator was 
clutching a large, felt-tipped marker.
 "Saunière was holding it when we found him," Fache said, leaving Langdon and moving several 
yards to a portable table covered with investigation tools, cables, and assorted electronic gear. "As 
I told you," he said, rummaging around the table, "we have touched nothing. Are you familiar with 
this kind of pen?"
 Langdon knelt down farther to see the pen
tick 
marks
s silhouette appeared, illuminated in 
bright purple. He approached carrying a portable light source, which shrouded him in a violet haze.
 "As you may know," Fache said, his eyes luminescing in the violet glow, "police use black-light 
illumination to search crime scenes for blood and other forensic evidence. So you can imagine our 
surprise..." Abruptly, he pointed the light down at the corpse.
 Langdon looked down and jumped back in shock.
 His heart pounded as he took in the bizarre sight now glowing before him on the parquet floor. 
Scrawled in luminescent handwriting, the curator
What the hell does this mean!
s eyes shone white. "That, monsieur, is precisely the question you are here to answer."
Not far away, inside Saunière
s enormous desk. With the exception of the 
eerie, robot-like doll of a medieval knight that seemed to be staring at him from the corner of 
Saunière
s conservatrice d
Soeur Sandrine. Eglise Saint-Sulpice.
Hello, Sister,
s voice, in fifteen years 
she had never been awoken by him. The abbé was a deeply pious man who went home to bed 
immediately after mass.
 "I apologize if I have awoken you, Sister," the abbé said, his own voice sounding groggy and on 
edge. "I have a favor to ask of you. I just received a call from an influential American bishop. 
Perhaps you know him? Manuel Aringarosa?"
 "The head of Opus Dei?" Of course I know of him. Who in the Church doesn
s 
conservative prelature had grown powerful in recent years. Their ascension to grace was jump
started in 1982 when Pope John Paul II unexpectedly elevated them to a "personal prelature of the 
Pope," officially sanctioning all of their practices. Suspiciously, Opus Dei
s 
Institute for Religious Works—commonly known as the Vatican Bank—bailing it out of an 
embarrassing bankruptcy. In a second maneuver that raised eyebrows, the Pope placed the founder 
of Opus Dei on the "fast track" for sainthood, accelerating an often century-long waiting period for 
canonization to a mere twenty years. Sister Sandrine could not help but feel that Opus Dei
Bishop Aringarosa called to ask me a favor,
One of his 
numeraries is in Paris tonight....
I'm sorry, you say 
this visiting Opus Dei numerary cannot wait until morning?
I'm afraid not. His plane leaves very early. He has always dreamed of seeing Saint-Sulpice.
But the church is far more interesting by day. The sun's rays through the oculus, the graduated 
shadows on the gnomon, this is what makes Saint-Sulpice unique.
Sister, I agree, and yet I would consider it a personal favor if you could let him in tonight. He can 
be there at... say one o'clock? That's in twenty minutes.
Of course. It would be my pleasure.
s 
phone call had certainly roused her senses. Opus Dei had always made her uneasy. Beyond the 
prelature
s residence halls for no pay while the men were at mass; women slept on hardwood floors, 
while the men had straw mats; and women were forced to endure additional requirements of 
corporal mortification... all as added penance for original sin. It seemed Eve
s rights, Opus 
Dei threatened to reverse the progress. Even so, Sister Sandrine had her orders.
Swinging her legs off the bed, she stood slowly, chilled by the cold stone on the soles of her bare 
feet. As the chill rose through her flesh, she felt an unexpected apprehension.
 Women
t tear his eyes from the glowing purple text scrawled across the parquet floor. 
Jacques Saunière
s instinct that 
the pentacle had something to do with devil worship.
 O, Draconian devil!
 Saunière had left a literal reference to the devil. Equally as bizarre was the series of numbers. "Part 
of it looks like a numeric cipher."
 "Yes," Fache said. "Our cryptographers are already working on it. We believe these numbers may 
be the key to who killed him. Maybe a telephone exchange or some kind of social identification. 
Do the numbers have any symbolic meaning to you?"
 Langdon looked again at the digits, sensing it would take him hours to extract any symbolic 
meaning. If Saunière had even intended any. To Langdon, the numbers looked totally random. He 
was accustomed to symbolic progressions that made some semblance of sense, but everything 
here—the pentacle, the text, the numbers—seemed disparate at the most fundamental level.
 "You alleged earlier," Fache said, "that Saunière

Langdon knew the question was rhetorical. This bizarre communiqué obviously did not fit 
Langdon's scenario of goddess worship at all.
 O, Draconian devil? Oh, lame saint?
 Fache said, 
t you agree?"
 Langdon tried to imagine the curator
An accusation against his murderer makes sense, I 
suppose.
My job, of course, is to put a name to that person. Let me ask you this, Mr. Langdon. To your eye, 
beyond the numbers, what about this message is most strange?
t strange?
 "The word 
?" he ventured, offering the first thing that came to mind. Langdon was 
fairly certain that a reference to Draco—the ruthless seventh-century B.C. politician—was an 
unlikely dying thought. " 
 seems an odd choice of vocabulary."
 "Draconian?" Fache
Saunière's choice of vocabulary 
hardly seems the primary issue here.
t sure what issue Fache had in mind, but he was starting to suspect that Draco and 
Fache would have gotten along well.
 "Saunière was a Frenchman," Fache said flatly. "He lived in Paris. And yet he chose to write this 
message..."
 "In English," Langdon said, now realizing the captain
Précisément. Any idea why?
s abdomen. "Nothing to do with devil worship? 
Are you still certain?"
 Langdon was certain of nothing anymore. "The symbology and text don
m 
sorry I can


 Fache backed away from the body and raised the black light again, 
letting the beam spread out in a wider angle. 

 To Langdon's amazement, a rudimentary circle glowed around the curator's body. Saunière had 
apparently lay down and swung the pen around himself in several long arcs, essentially inscribing 
himself inside a circle.
 In a flash, the meaning became clear.
 
 Langdon gasped. Saunière had created a life-sized replica of Leonardo da 
Vinci's most famous sketch.
 Considered the most anatomically correct drawing of its day, Da Vinci's The Vitruvian Man had 
become a modern-day icon of culture, appearing on posters, mouse pads, and T-shirts around the 
world. The celebrated sketch consisted of a perfect circle in which was inscribed a nude male... his 
arms and legs outstretched in a naked spread eagle.
 Da Vinci. Langdon felt a shiver of amazement. The clarity of Saunière's intentions could not be 
denied. In his final moments of life, the curator had stripped off his clothing and arranged his body 
in a clear image of Leonardo da Vinci's Vitruvian Man.
 The circle had been the missing critical element. A feminine symbol of protection, the circle 
around the naked man's body completed Da Vinci's intended message—male and female harmony. 
The question now, though, was why Saunière would imitate a famous drawing.
 
 Fache said, 

 Langdon was surprised by Fache's knowledge of Da Vinci, and it certainly went a long way toward 
explaining the captain's suspicions about devil worship. Da Vinci had always been an awkward 
subject for historians, especially in the Christian tradition. Despite the visionary's genius, he was a 
flamboyant homosexual and worshipper of Nature's divine order, both of which placed him in a 
perpetual state of sin against God. Moreover, the artist's eerie eccentricities projected an admittedly 
demonic aura: Da Vinci exhumed corpses to study human anatomy; he kept mysterious journals in 
illegible reverse handwriting; he believed he possessed the alchemic power to turn lead into gold 
and even cheat God by creating an elixir to postpone death; and his inventions included horrific, 
never-before-imagined weapons of war and torture.
 Misunderstanding breeds distrust, Langdon thought.
 Even Da Vinci's enormous output of breathtaking Christian art only furthered the artist's reputation 
for spiritual hypocrisy. Accepting hundreds of lucrative Vatican commissions, Da Vinci painted 
Christian themes not as an expression of his own beliefs but rather as a commercial venture—a 
means of funding a lavish lifestyle. Unfortunately, Da Vinci was a prankster who often amused 
himself by quietly gnawing at the hand that fed him. He incorporated in many of his Christian 
paintings hidden symbolism that was anything but Christian—tributes to his own beliefs and a 
subtle thumbing of his nose at the Church. Langdon had even given a lecture once at the National 
Gallery in London entitled: 

 
 Langdon now said, 
 As 
Langdon said this, an odd thought popped into his mind. He glanced down at the message on the 
floor again. O, Draconian devil! Oh, lame saint!
 
 Fache said.
 Langdon weighed his words carefully. 
s elimination of the sacred feminine 
from modern religion. Maybe, by imitating a famous Da Vinci drawing, Saunière was simply 
echoing some of their shared frustrations with the modern Church

 Fache's eyes hardened. 

 Langdon had to admit it seemed far-fetched, and yet the pentacle seemed to endorse the idea on 
some level. 

 
 Fache demanded, sounding hostile now. 
t you say?"
 Langdon was reaching the end of his patience. "Captain, you asked for my instincts as to what 
Saunière is trying to say here, and that
m giving you."
 "That this is an indictment of the Church?" Fache
Mr. Langdon, I have seen a lot of death in my work, and let me tell you something. When a 
man is murdered by another man, I do not believe his final thoughts are to write an obscure 
spiritual statement that no one will understand. I believe he is thinking of one thing only.
s 
whispery voice sliced the air. "La vengeance. I believe Saunière wrote this note to tell us who 
killed him." Langdon stared. "But that makes no sense whatsoever."
 "No?"
 "No," he fired back, tired and frustrated. "You told me Saunière was attacked in his office by 
someone he had apparently invited in."
"Yes."
 "So it seems reasonable to conclude that the curator knew his attacker."
 Fache nodded. "Go on."
 "So if Saunière knew the person who killed him, what kind of indictment is this?" He pointed at the 
floor. "Numeric codes? Lame saints? Draconian devils? Pentacles on his stomach? It

 Fache frowned as if the idea had never occurred to him. 

 
 Langdon said, 
s name."
 As Langdon spoke those words, a smug smile crossed Fache
Précisément,
Précisément.
s voice coming through the headphones. The agent supérieur knew it was 
moments like these that had lifted the captain to the pinnacle of French law enforcement.
 Fache will do what no one else dares.
 The delicate art of cajoler was a lost skill in modern law enforcement, one that required 
exceptional poise under pressure. Few men possessed the necessary sangfroid for this kind of 
operation, but Fache seemed born for it. His restraint and patience bordered on the robotic.
 Fache
s briefing of his agents an hour ago had been unusually succinct 
and assured. I know who murdered Jacques Saunière, Fache had said. You know what to do. No 
mistakes tonight.
 And so far, no mistakes had been made.
 Collet was not yet privy to the evidence that had cemented Fache
s guilt, 
but he knew better than to question the instincts of the Bull. Fache
s sixth sense. Collet had to admit, if there was a God, Bezu Fache 
would be on His A-list. The captain attended mass and confession with zealous regularity—far 
more than the requisite holiday attendance fulfilled by other officials in the name of good public 
relations. When the Pope visited Paris a few years back, Fache had used all his muscle to obtain the 
honor of an audience. A photo of Fache with the Pope now hung in his office. The Papal Bull, the 
agents secretly called it.
 Collet found it ironic that one of Fache
Capitaine?
One moment please.
Oui?
Capitaine, un agent du Département de Cryptographie est arrivé.
s anger stalled momentarily. A cryptographer? Despite the lousy timing, this was probably 
good news. Fache, after finding Saunière
s message.
 "I
 Fache radioed back, leaving no doubt in his tone that a line had been 
crossed. 
ll speak to him when I

 
 the voice corrected. 
s Agent Neveu."
 Fache was becoming less amused with this call every passing moment. Sophie Neveu was one of 
DCPJ
s attempt to incorporate more women into the police force. The ministry
s new cryptologic methodology continually exasperated the veteran French 
cryptographers above her. And by far the most troubling to Fache was the inescapable universal 
truth that in an office of middle-aged men, an attractive young woman always drew eyes away 
from the work at hand.
 The man on the radio said, "Agent Neveu insisted on speaking to you immediately, Captain. I tried 
to stop her, but she

 Fache recoiled in disbelief. 

 For a moment, Robert Langdon thought Bezu Fache was suffering a stroke. The captain was mid
sentence when his jaw stopped moving and his eyes bulged. His blistering gaze seemed fixated on 
something over Langdon's shoulder. Before Langdon could turn to see what it was, he heard a 
woman's voice chime out behind him.
 

 Langdon turned to see a young woman approaching. She was moving down the corridor toward 
them with long, fluid strides... a haunting certainty to her gait. Dressed casually in a knee-length, 
cream-colored Irish sweater over black leggings, she was attractive and looked to be about thirty. 
Her thick burgundy hair fell unstyled to her shoulders, framing the warmth of her face. Unlike the 
waifish, cookie-cutter blondes that adorned Harvard dorm room walls, this woman was healthy 
with an unembellished beauty and genuineness that radiated a striking personal confidence.
To Langdon's surprise, the woman walked directly up to him and extended a polite hand. 

s Cryptology Department." Her words curved 
richly around her muted Anglo-Franco accent. "It is a pleasure to meet you."
 Langdon took her soft palm in his and felt himself momentarily fixed in her strong gaze. Her eyes 
were olive-green—incisive and clear.
 Fache drew a seething inhalation, clearly preparing to launch into a reprimand.
 "Captain," she said, turning quickly and beating him to the punch, "please excuse the interruption, 
but—"
 "Ce n
 Fache sputtered.
 
 Sophie continued in English, as if out of courtesy to Langdon. 

 
 Fache hissed. 

 
ve deciphered the numeric code," she said flatly.
 Langdon felt a pulse of excitement. She broke the code?
 Fache looked uncertain how to respond.
 "Before I explain," Sophie said, "I have an urgent message for Mr. Langdon."
 Fache
For Mr. Langdon?
You need to contact the U.S. Embassy, Mr. Langdon. They 
have a message for you from the States.
s broad jaw had tightened with the news. "The U.S. Embassy?" he demanded, sounding 
suspicious. "How would they know to find Mr. Langdon here?"
 Sophie shrugged. "Apparently they called Mr. Langdon

 Fache looked troubled. 


 Sophie said, her voice firm. 

 Fache's brow furrowed in apparent confusion. He opened his mouth to speak, but Sophie had 
already turned back to Langdon.
 
 she declared, pulling a small slip of paper from her pocket, 
s messaging service. They asked that you phone in as soon as possible." She handed 
him the paper with an intent gaze. "While I explain the code to Captain Fache, you need to make 
this call."
 Langdon studied the slip. It had a Paris phone number and extension on it. "Thank you," he said, 
feeling worried now. "Where do I find a phone?"
 Sophie began to pull a cell phone from her sweater pocket, but Fache waved her off. He now 
looked like Mount Vesuvius about to erupt. Without taking his eyes off Sophie, he produced his 
own cell phone and held it out. "This line is secure, Mr. Langdon. You may use it."
 Langdon felt mystified by Fache
s phone. Fache immediately marched Sophie several steps away and began chastising her in 
hushed tones. Disliking the captain more and more, Langdon turned away from the odd 
confrontation and switched on the cell phone. Checking the slip of paper Sophie had given him, 
Langdon dialed the number.
 The line began to ring.
 One ring... two rings... three rings...
 Finally the call connected.
 Langdon expected to hear an embassy operator, but he found himself instead listening to an 
answering machine. Oddly, the voice on the tape was familiar. It was that of Sophie Neveu.
 "Bonjour, vous êtes bien chez Sophie Neveu," the woman
Je suis absenle pour le 
moment, mais...
I'm sorry, Ms. Neveu? I think you may have 
given me—
No, that's the right number,
s confusion. 
"The embassy has an automated message system. You have to dial an access code to pick up your 
messages."
 Langdon stared. "But—"
 "It

 Langdon opened his mouth to explain the bizarre error, but Sophie flashed him a silencing glare 
that lasted only an instant. Her green eyes sent a crystal-clear message.
 Don't ask questions. Just do it.
 Bewildered, Langdon punched in the extension on the slip of paper: 454.
 Sophie's outgoing message immediately cut off, and Langdon heard an electronic voice announce 
in French: 
 Apparently, 454 was Sophie's remote access code for 
picking up her messages while away from home.
 I'm picking up this woman's messages?
 Langdon could hear the tape rewinding now. Finally, it stopped, and the machine engaged. 
Langdon listened as the message began to play. Again, the voice on the line was Sophie's.
 
 the message began in a fearful whisper. 

 CHAPTER 10
 Silas sat behind the wheel of the black Audi the Teacher had arranged for him and gazed out at the 
great Church of Saint-Sulpice. Lit from beneath by banks of floodlights, the church's two bell 
towers rose like stalwart sentinels above the building's long body. On either flank, a shadowy row 
of sleek buttresses jutted out like the ribs of a beautiful beast.
 The heathens used a house of God to conceal their keystone. Again the brotherhood had confirmed 
their legendary reputation for illusion and deceit. Silas was looking forward to finding the keystone 
and giving it to the Teacher so they could recover what the brotherhood had long ago stolen from 
the faithful.
 How powerful that will make Opus Dei.
 Parking the Audi on the deserted Place Saint-Sulpice, Silas exhaled, telling himself to clear his 
mind for the task at hand. His broad back still ached from the corporal mortification he had 
endured earlier today, and yet the pain was inconsequential compared with the anguish of his life 
before Opus Dei had saved him.
 Still, the memories haunted his soul.
 Release your hatred, Silas commanded himself. Forgive those who trespassed against you.
 Looking up at the stone towers of Saint-Sulpice, Silas fought that familiar undertow... that force 
that often dragged his mind back in time, locking him once again in the prison that had been his 
world as a young man. The memories of purgatory came as they always did, like a tempest to his 
senses... the reek of rotting cabbage, the stench of death, human urine and feces. The cries of 
hopelessness against the howling wind of the Pyrenees and the soft sobs of forgotten men.
 Andorra, he thought, feeling his muscles tighten.
 Incredibly, it was in that barren and forsaken suzerain between Spain and France, shivering in his 
stone cell, wanting only to die, that Silas had been saved.
 He had not realized it at the time.
 The light came long after the thunder.
 His name was not Silas then, although he didn't recall the name his parents had given him. He had 
left home when he was seven. His drunken father, a burly dockworker, enraged by the arrival of an 
albino son, beat his mother regularly, blaming her for the boy's embarrassing condition. When the 
boy tried to defend her, he too was badly beaten.
 One night, there was a horrific fight, and his mother never got up. The boy stood over his lifeless 
mother and felt an unbearable up-welling of guilt for permitting it to happen.
 This is my fault!
 As if some kind of demon were controlling his body, the boy walked to the kitchen and grasped a 
butcher knife. Hypnotically, he moved to the bedroom where his father lay on the bed in a drunken 
stupor. Without a word, the boy stabbed him in the back. His father cried out in pain and tried to 
roll over, but his son stabbed him again, over and over until the apartment fell quiet.
 The boy fled home but found the streets of Marseilles equally unfriendly. His strange appearance 
made him an outcast among the other young runaways, and he was forced to live alone in the 
basement of a dilapidated factory, eating stolen fruit and raw fish from the dock. His only 
companions were tattered magazines he found in the trash, and he taught himself to read them. 
Over time, he grew strong. When he was twelve, another drifter—a girl twice his age—mocked 
him on the streets and attempted to steal his food. The girl found herself pummeled to within 
inches of her life. When the authorities pulled the boy off her, they gave him an ultimatum—leave 
Marseilles or go to juvenile prison.
 The boy moved down the coast to Toulon. Over time, the looks of pity on the streets turned to 
looks of fear. The boy had grown to a powerful young man. When people passed by, he could hear 
them whispering to one another. A ghost, they would say, their eyes wide with fright as they stared 
at his white skin. A ghost with the eyes of a devil!
 And he felt like a ghost... transparent... floating from seaport to seaport.
 People seemed to look right through him.
 At eighteen, in a port town, while attempting to steal a case of cured ham from a cargo ship, he was 
caught by a pair of crewmen. The two sailors who began to beat him smelled of beer, just as his 
father had. The memories of fear and hatred surfaced like a monster from the deep. The young man 
broke the first sailor's neck with his bare hands, and only the arrival of the police saved the second 
sailor from a similar fate.
 Two months later, in shackles, he arrived at a prison in Andorra.
 You are as white as a ghost, the inmates ridiculed as the guards marched him in, naked and cold. 
Mira el espectro! Perhaps the ghost will pass right through these walls!
 Over the course of twelve years, his flesh and soul withered until he knew he had become 
transparent.
 I am a ghost.
 I am weightless.
 Yo soy un espectro... palido coma una fantasma... caminando este mundo a solas.
 One night the ghost awoke to the screams of other inmates. He didn't know what invisible force 
was shaking the floor on which he slept, nor what mighty hand was trembling the mortar of his 
stone cell, but as he jumped to his feet, a large boulder toppled onto the very spot where he had 
been sleeping. Looking up to see where the stone had come from, he saw a hole in the trembling 
wall, and beyond it, a vision he had not seen in over ten years. The moon.
 Even while the earth still shook, the ghost found himself scrambling through a narrow tunnel, 
staggering out into an expansive vista, and tumbling down a barren mountainside into the woods. 
He ran all night, always downward, delirious with hunger and exhaustion.
 Skirting the edges of consciousness, he found himself at dawn in a clearing where train tracks cut a 
swath across the forest. Following the rails, he moved on as if dreaming. Seeing an empty freight 
car, he crawled in for shelter and rest. When he awoke the train was moving. How long? How far? 
A pain was growing in his gut. Am I dying? He slept again. This time he awoke to someone yelling, 
beating him, throwing him out of the freight car. Bloody, he wandered the outskirts of a small 
village looking in vain for food. Finally, his body too weak to take another step, he lay down by the 
side of the road and slipped into unconsciousness.
 The light came slowly, and the ghost wondered how long he had been dead. A day? Three days? It 
didn't matter. His bed was soft like a cloud, and the air around him smelled sweet with candles. 
Jesus was there, staring down at him. I am here, Jesus said. The stone has been rolled aside, and 
you are born again.
 He slept and awoke. Fog shrouded his thoughts. He had never believed in heaven, and yet Jesus 
was watching over him. Food appeared beside his bed, and the ghost ate it, almost able to feel the 
flesh materializing on his bones. He slept again. When he awoke, Jesus was still smiling down, 
speaking. You are saved, my son. Blessed are those who follow my path.
 Again, he slept.
 It was a scream of anguish that startled the ghost from his slumber. His body leapt out of bed, 
staggered down a hallway toward the sounds of shouting. He entered into a kitchen and saw a large 
man beating a smaller man. Without knowing why, the ghost grabbed the large man and hurled him 
backward against a wall. The man fled, leaving the ghost standing over the body of a young man in 
priest's robes. The priest had a badly shattered nose. Lifting the bloody priest, the ghost carried him 
to a couch.
 
 the priest said in awkward French. 

 The ghost shook his head.
 
 he continued in broken French.
 The ghost could not remember the name his parents had given him. All he heard were the taunting 
gibes of the prison guards.
 The priest smiled. 

 
 His voice sounded hollow.
 



 
ve been here many days."
 The ghost studied his young caretaker. Years had passed since anyone had shown any kindness. 
"Thank you, Father."
 The priest touched his bloody lip. "It is I who am thankful, my friend."
 When the ghost awoke in the morning, his world felt clearer. He gazed up at the crucifix on the 
wall above his bed. Although it no longer spoke to him, he felt a comforting aura in its presence. 
Sitting up, he was surprised to find a newspaper clipping on his bedside table. The article was in 
French, a week old. When he read the story, he filled with fear. It told of an earthquake in the 
mountains that had destroyed a prison and freed many dangerous criminals.
 His heart began pounding. The priest knows who I am! The emotion he felt was one he had not felt 
for some time. Shame. Guilt. It was accompanied by the fear of being caught. He jumped from his 
bed. Where do I run?
 "The Book of Acts," a voice said from the door.
 The ghost turned, frightened.
 The young priest was smiling as he entered. His nose was awkwardly bandaged, and he was 
holding out an old Bible. "I found one in French for you. The chapter is marked."
 Uncertain, the ghost took the Bible and looked at the chapter the priest had marked.
 Acts 16.
 The verses told of a prisoner named Silas who lay naked and beaten in his cell, singing hymns to 
God. When the ghost reached Verse 26, he gasped in shock.
 "...And suddenly, there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken, 
and all the doors fell open."
 His eyes shot up at the priest.
 The priest smiled warmly. "From now on, my friend, if you have no other name, I shall call you 
Silas."
 The ghost nodded blankly. Silas. He had been given flesh. My name is Silas.
"It
 the priest said. 

 Twenty thousand feet above the Mediterranean, Alitalia flight 1618 bounced in turbulence, causing 
passengers to shift nervously. Bishop Aringarosa barely noticed. His thoughts were with the future 
of Opus Dei. Eager to know how plans in Paris were progressing, he wished he could phone Silas. 
But he could not. The Teacher had seen to that.
 
 the Teacher had explained, speaking in English with a French accent. 

 Aringarosa knew he was right. The Teacher seemed an exceptionally careful man. He had not 
revealed his own identity to Aringarosa, and yet he had proven himself a man well worth obeying. 
After all, he had somehow obtained very secret information. The names of the brotherhood's four 
top members! This had been one of the coups that convinced the bishop the Teacher was truly 
capable of delivering the astonishing prize he claimed he could unearth.
 
 the Teacher had told him, 

 

 

 

 
s identity, and my investment."
 "Your investment?"
 "Bishop, if your own eagerness to keep abreast of progress puts you in jail, then you will be unable 
to pay me my fee."
 The bishop smiled. "A fine point. Our desires are in accord. Godspeed."
 Twenty million euro, the bishop thought, now gazing out the plane
Une plaisanterie numérique?
Your professional assessment of Saunière's code is that it is some kind of 
mathematical prank?
s gall. Not only had she just barged in on Fache 
without permission, but she was now trying to convince him that Saunière, in his final moments of 
life, had been inspired to leave a mathematical gag?
 "This code," Sophie explained in rapid French, "is simplistic to the point of absurdity. Jacques 
Saunière must have known we would see through it immediately." She pulled a scrap of paper from 
her sweater pocket and handed it to Fache. "Here is the decryption."
 Fache looked at the card.
 1-1-2-3-5-8-13-21
 "This is it?" he snapped. "All you did was put the numbers in increasing order!"
 Sophie actually had the nerve to give a satisfied smile. "Exactly."
 Fache
Agent Neveu, I have no idea where the hell you're 
going with this, but I suggest you get there fast.
s ashen expression, Fache sensed the news was bad.
 "Captain," Sophie said, her tone dangerously defiant, "the sequence of numbers you have in your 
hand happens to be one of the most famous mathematical progressions in history."
 Fache was not aware there even existed a mathematical progression that qualified as famous, and 
he certainly didn
s off-handed tone.
 "This is the Fibonacci sequence," she declared, nodding toward the piece of paper in Fache
A progression in which each term is equal to the sum of the two preceding terms.
s death.
"Mathematician Leonardo Fibonacci created this succession of numbers in the thirteenth-century. 
Obviously there can be no coincidence that all of the numbers Saunière wrote on the floor belong 
to Fibonacci

 Fache stared at the young woman for several moments. 

 She shrugged. 
s the point. It

 Fache took a menacing step forward, placing his face only inches from Sophie's. 

 Sophie's soft features grew surprisingly stern as she leaned in. 
ll inform the director of Cryptography you no longer 
need our services."
 With that, she turned on her heel, and marched off the way she had come.
 Stunned, Fache watched her disappear into the darkness. Is she out of her mind? Sophie Neveu had 
just redefined le suicide professionnel.
 Fache turned to Langdon, who was still on the phone, looking more concerned than before, 
listening intently to his phone message. The U.S. Embassy. Bezu Fache despised many things... but 
few drew more wrath than the U.S. Embassy.
 Fache and the ambassador locked horns regularly over shared affairs of state—their most common 
battleground being law enforcement for visiting Americans. Almost daily, DCPJ arrested American 
exchange students in possession of drugs, U.S. businessmen for soliciting underage Prostitutes, 
American tourists for shoplifting or destruction of property. Legally, the U.S. Embassy could 
intervene and extradite guilty citizens back to the United States, where they received nothing more 
than a slap on the wrist.
 And the embassy invariably did just that.
 L
Is everything all right?
An accident,
A friend...
I'll need to fly home first thing in the morning.
s face was genuine, and yet he sensed another emotion 
there too, as if a distant fear were suddenly simmering in the American
I'm sorry to hear 
that,
Would you like to sit down?
Actually, I think I'd like to use the rest room.
The rest room. Of course. Let's take a break for a few 
minutes.
The rest 
rooms are back toward the curator's office.
I believe there's a much closer rest room at the end.
Shall I accompany you?
Not necessary. I think I'd like a 
few minutes alone.
t matter—the external doors, if opened, would set off fire alarms and were 
guarded outside by DCPJ agents. Langdon could not possibly leave without Fache knowing about 
it.
"I need to return to Mr. Saunière
 Fache said. 

 Langdon gave a quiet wave as he disappeared into the darkness.
 Turning, Fache marched angrily in the opposite direction. Arriving at the gate, he slid under, exited 
the Grand Gallery, marched down the hall, and stormed into the command center at Saunière's 
office.
 
 Fache bellowed.
 Collet was the first to answer. 
d broken the code."
 Fache looked around. "Is she gone?"
 "She

 
 Fache glanced out at the darkened hallway. Apparently Sophie had been in no mood to 
stop by and chat with the other officers on her way out.
 For a moment, Fache considered radioing the guards in the entresol and telling them to stop Sophie 
and drag her back up here before she could leave the premises. He thought better of it. That was 
only his pride talking... wanting the last word. He'd had enough distractions tonight.
 Deal with Agent Neveu later, he told himself, already looking forward to firing her.
 Pushing Sophie from his mind, Fache stared for a moment at the miniature knight standing on 
Saunière's desk. Then he turned back to Collet. 

 Collet gave a curt nod and spun the laptop toward Fache. The red dot was clearly visible on the 
floor plan overlay, blinking methodically in a room marked TOILETTES PUBLIQUES.
 
 Fache said, lighting a cigarette and stalking into the hall. I've got a phone call to make. Be 
damned sure the rest room is the only place Langdon goes.
s 
phone message played over and over in his mind. At the end of the corridor, illuminated signs 
bearing the international stick-figure symbols for rest rooms guided him through a maze-like series 
of dividers displaying Italian drawings and hiding the rest rooms from sight.
Finding the men
s 
door creaked open behind him. He spun.
 Sophie Neveu entered, her green eyes flashing fear. "Thank God you came. We don

 Langdon stood beside the sinks, staring in bewilderment at DCPJ cryptographer Sophie Neveu. 
Only minutes ago, Langdon had listened to her phone message, thinking the newly arrived 
cryptographer must be insane. And yet, the more he listened, the more he sensed Sophie Neveu 
was speaking in earnest. Do not react to this message. Just listen calmly. You are in danger right 
now. Follow my directions very closely. Filled with uncertainty, Langdon had decided to do exactly 
as Sophie advised. He told Fache that the phone message was regarding an injured friend back 
home. Then he had asked to use the rest room at the end of the Grand Gallery.
 Sophie stood before him now, still catching her breath after doubling back to the rest room. In the 
fluorescent lights, Langdon was surprised to see that her strong air actually radiated from 
unexpectedly soft features. Only her gaze was sharp, and the juxtaposition conjured images of a 
multilayered Renoir portrait... veiled but distinct, with a boldness that somehow retained its shroud 
of mystery.
 
 Sophie began, still catching her breath, 
 As she spoke, her accented English resonated 
off the tile walls, giving her voice a hollow quality.
 
 Langdon demanded. Sophie had already given him an explanation on the phone, but 
he wanted to hear it from her lips.
 
 she said, stepping toward him, 
s primary suspect in this murder is you."
 Langdon was braced for the words, and yet they still sounded utterly ridiculous. According to 
Sophie, Langdon had been called to the Louvre tonight not as a symbologist but rather as a suspect 
and was currently the unwitting target of one of DCPJ
Look in your jacket's left pocket,
You'll find proof they are watching you.
Just look.
s left pocket—one he never used. 
Feeling around inside, he found nothing. What the devil did you expect? He began wondering if 
Sophie might just be insane after all. Then his fingers brushed something unexpected. Small and 
hard. Pinching the tiny object between his fingers, Langdon pulled it out and stared in 
astonishment. It was a metallic, button-shaped disk, about the size of a watch battery. He had never 
seen it before. "What the...?"
 "GPS tracking dot," Sophie said. "Continuously transmits its location to a Global Positioning 
System satellite that DCPJ can monitor. We use them to monitor people
s accurate 
within two feet anywhere on the globe. They have you on an electronic leash. The agent who 
picked you up at the hotel slipped it inside your pocket before you left your room."
 Langdon flashed back to the hotel room... his quick shower, getting dressed, the DCPJ agent 
politely holding out Langdon
s cool outside, Mr. Langdon, the 
agent had said. Spring in Paris is not all your song boasts. Langdon had thanked him and donned 
the jacket.
 Sophie
I didn't tell you about the tracking dot earlier because I didn't want 
you checking your pocket in front of Fache. He can't know you've found it.
They tagged you with GPS because they thought you might run.
In fact, they hoped 
you would run; it would make their case stronger.
Why would I run!
I'm innocent!
Fache feels otherwise.
No!
Leave it in your pocket. If you throw it out, the 
signal will stop moving, and they'll know you found the dot. The only reason Fache left you alone 
is because he can monitor where you are. If he thinks you've discovered what he's doing...
s hand and slid it back 
into the pocket of his tweed coat. "The dot stays with you. At least for the moment."
Langdon felt lost. "How the hell could Fache actually believe I killed Jacques Saunière!"
 "He has some fairly persuasive reasons to suspect you." Sophie
There is a 
piece of evidence here that you have not yet seen. Fache has kept it carefully hidden from you.
Do you recall the three lines of text that Saunière wrote on the floor?
s mind.
 Sophie
Unfortunately, what you saw was not the entire 
message. There was a fourth line that Fache photographed and then wiped clean before you 
arrived.
The last line of the message,
was something Fache did not want you to know 
about.
At least not until he was done with you.
Fache uploaded images of the crime scene to the Cryptology Department earlier tonight in hopes 
we could figure out what Saunière's message was trying to say. This is a photo of the complete 
message.
s postscript. P.S. 
Find Robert Langdon. He felt as if the floor were tilting beneath his feet. Saunière left a postscript 
with my name on it? In his wildest dreams, Langdon could not fathom why.
"Now do you understand," Sophie said, her eyes urgent, "why Fache ordered you here tonight, and 
why you are his primary suspect?"
 The only thing Langdon understood at the moment was why Fache had looked so smug when 
Langdon suggested Saunière would have accused his killer by name.
 Find Robert Langdon.
 "Why would Saunière write this?" Langdon demanded, his confusion now giving way to anger. 
"Why would I want to kill Jacques Saunière?"
 "Fache has yet to uncover a motive, but he has been recording his entire conversation with you 
tonight in hopes you might reveal one."
 Langdon opened his mouth, but still no words came.
 "He
 Sophie explained. 
s connected to a transmitter in his 
pocket that radios the signal back to the command post."
 "This is impossible," Langdon stammered. "I have an alibi. I went directly back to my hotel after 
my lecture. You can ask the hotel desk."
 "Fache already did. His report shows you retrieving your room key from the concierge at about ten
thirty. Unfortunately, the time of the murder was closer to eleven. You easily could have left your 
hotel room unseen."
 "This is insanity! Fache has no evidence!"
 Sophie
Mr. Langdon, your name is written on the floor 
beside the body, and Saunière's date book says you were with him at approximately the time of the 
murder.
Fache has more than enough evidence to take you into custody for 
questioning.
I didn't do this.
This is not American television, Mr. Langdon. In France, the laws protect the 
police, not criminals. Unfortunately, in this case, there is also the media consideration. Jacques 
Saunière was a very prominent and well-loved figure in Paris, and his murder will be news in the 
morning. Fache will be under immediate pressure to make a statement, and he looks a lot better 
having a suspect in custody already. Whether or not you are guilty, you most certainly will be held 
by DCPJ until they can figure out what really happened.
Why are you telling me all this?
Because, Mr. Langdon, I believe you are innocent.
And also because it is partially my fault that you're in trouble.
I'm sorry? It's your fault Saunière is trying to frame me?
Saunière wasn't trying to frame you. It was a mistake. That message on the floor was meant for 
me.
I beg your pardon?
That message wasn't for the police. He wrote it for me. I think he was forced to do everything in 
such a hurry that he just didn't realize how it would look to the police.
The numbered 
code is meaningless. Saunière wrote it to make sure the investigation included cryptographers, 
ensuring that I would know as soon as possible what had happened to him.
But why do you think his message was for you?
The Vitruvian Man,
That particular sketch has always been my favorite Da Vinci 
work. Tonight he used it to catch my attention.
Hold on. You're saying the curator knew your favorite piece of art?
I'm sorry. This 
is all coming out of order. Jacques Saunière and I...
s voice caught, and Langdon heard a sudden melancholy there, a painful past, simmering 
just below the surface. Sophie and Jacques Saunière apparently had some kind of special 
relationship. Langdon studied the beautiful young woman before him, well aware that aging men in 
France often took young mistresses. Even so, Sophie Neveu as a "kept woman" somehow didn
We had a falling-out ten years ago,
We've barely spoken 
since. Tonight, when Crypto got the call that he had been murdered, and I saw the images of his 
body and text on the floor, I realized he was trying to send me a message.
Because of The Vitruvian Man?
Yes. And the letters P.S.
Post Script?
P.S. are my initials.
But your name is Sophie Neveu.
P.S. is the nickname he called me when I lived with him.
It 
stood for Princesse Sophie
Silly, I know,
But it was years ago. When I was a little girl.
You knew him when you were a little girl?
Quite well,
Jacques Saunière was my 
grandfather.
Where's Langdon?
Still in the men's room, sir.
Taking his time, I see.
s shoulder, and Collet could almost hear the wheels 
turning. Fache was fighting the urge to go check on Langdon. Ideally, the subject of an observation 
was allowed the most time and freedom possible, lulling him into a false sense of security. 
Langdon needed to return of his own volition. Still, it had been almost ten minutes.
 Too long.
 "Any chance Langdon is onto us?" Fache asked.
 Collet shook his head. "We
s room, so the GPS dot 
is obviously still on him. Perhaps he feels ill? If he had found the dot, he would have removed it 
and tried to run."
 Fache checked his watch. "Fine."
 Still Fache seemed preoccupied. All evening, Collet had sensed an atypical intensity in his captain. 
Usually detached and cool under pressure, Fache tonight seemed emotionally engaged, as if this 
were somehow a personal matter for him.
 Not surprising, Collet thought. Fache needs this arrest desperately. Recently the Board of 
Ministers and the media had become more openly critical of Fache
s critics, 
helping him secure the job a few more years until he could retire with the lucrative pension. God 
knows he needs the pension, Collet thought. Fache
s odd interruption, though unfortunate, had 
been only a minor wrinkle. She was gone now, and Fache still had cards to play. He had yet to 
inform Langdon that his name had been scrawled on the floor by the victim. P.S. Find Robert 
Langdon. The American
Captain?
I think you better take this 
call.
Who is it?
It's the director of our Cryptology Department.
And?
It's about Sophie Neveu, sir. Something is not quite right.
s loins. His thigh flexed instinctively, causing 
the barbed cilice belt to cut painfully into his flesh.
 The lust evaporated instantly. For ten years now, Silas had faithfully denied himself all sexual 
indulgence, even self-administered. It was The Way. He knew he had sacrificed much to follow 
Opus Dei, but he had received much more in return. A vow of celibacy and the relinquishment of 
all personal assets hardly seemed a sacrifice. Considering the poverty from which he had come and 
the sexual horrors he had endured in prison, celibacy was a welcome change.
 Now, having returned to France for the first time since being arrested and shipped to prison in 
Andorra, Silas could feel his homeland testing him, dragging violent memories from his redeemed 
soul. You have been reborn, he reminded himself. His service to God today had required the sin of 
murder, and it was a sacrifice Silas knew he would have to hold silently in his heart for all eternity.
 The measure of your faith is the measure of the pain you can endure, the Teacher had told him. 
Silas was no stranger to pain and felt eager to prove himself to the Teacher, the one who had 
assured him his actions were ordained by a higher power.
 "Hago la obra de Dios," Silas whispered, moving now toward the church entrance.
 Pausing in the shadow of the massive doorway, he took a deep breath. It was not until this instant 
that he truly realized what he was about to do, and what awaited him inside.
 The keystone. It will lead us to our final goal.
 He raised his ghost-white fist and banged three times on the door.
 Moments later, the bolts of the enormous wooden portal began to move.
 CHAPTER 16
 Sophie wondered how long it would take Fache to figure out she had not left the building. Seeing 
that Langdon was clearly overwhelmed, Sophie questioned whether she had done the right thing by 
cornering him here in the men
s body, naked and spread-eagle on the floor. There was a time when 
he had meant the world to her, yet tonight, Sophie was surprised to feel almost no sadness for the 
man. Jacques Saunière was a stranger to her now. Their relationship had evaporated in a single 
instant one March night when she was twenty-two. Ten years ago. Sophie had come home a few 
days early from graduate university in England and mistakenly witnessed her grandfather engaged 
in something Sophie was obviously not supposed to see. It was an image she barely could believe 
to this day.
 If I hadn
s pained attempts to explain, Sophie 
immediately moved out on her own, taking money she had saved, and getting a small flat with 
some roommates. She vowed never to speak to anyone about what she had seen. Her grandfather 
tried desperately to reach her, sending cards and letters, begging Sophie to meet him so he could 
explain. Explain how!? Sophie never responded except once—to forbid him ever to call her or try 
to meet her in public. She was afraid his explanation would be more terrifying than the incident 
itself.
 Incredibly, Saunière had never given up on her, and Sophie now possessed a decade
s credit, he had never once 
disobeyed her request and phoned her.
 Until this afternoon.
 "Sophie?" His voice had sounded startlingly old on her answering machine. "I have abided by your 
wishes for so long... and it pains me to call, but I must speak to you. Something terrible has 
happened."
 Standing in the kitchen of her Paris flat, Sophie felt a chill to hear him again after all these years. 
His gentle voice brought back a flood of fond childhood memories.
 "Sophie, please listen." He was speaking English to her, as he always did when she was a little girl. 
Practice French at school. Practice English at home. "You cannot be mad forever. Have you not 
read the letters that I
 He paused. 
 Sophie stared at the answering machine. Danger? What 
was he talking about?
 
 Her grandfather's voice cracked with an emotion Sophie could not place. 
ve 
kept things from you, and I know it has cost me your love. But it was for your own safety. Now 
you must know the truth. Please, I must tell you the truth about your family."
 Sophie suddenly could hear her own heart. My family? Sophie
s entire family had been erased in an instant. She had a 
box of newspaper clippings to confirm it.
 His words had sent an unexpected surge of longing through her bones. My family! In that fleeting 
instant, Sophie saw images from the dream that had awoken her countless times when she was a 
little girl: My family is alive! They are coming home! But, as in her dream, the pictures evaporated 
into oblivion.
 Your family is dead, Sophie. They are not coming home.
 "Sophie..." her grandfather said on the machine. "I have been waiting for years to tell you. Waiting 
for the right moment, but now time has run out. Call me at the Louvre. As soon as you get this. I
s so much you need to know."
 The message ended.
 In the silence, Sophie stood trembling for what felt like minutes. As she considered her 
grandfather
s room, Sophie could hear the echoes of this 
afternoon
s passion and aptitude for 
cryptography were a product of growing up with Jacques Saunière—a fanatic himself for codes, 
word games, and puzzles. How many Sundays did we spend doing the cryptograms and crosswords 
in the newspaper?
 At the age of twelve, Sophie could finish the Le Monde crossword without any help, and her 
grandfather graduated her to crosswords in English, mathematical puzzles, and substitution ciphers. 
Sophie devoured them all. Eventually she turned her passion into a profession by becoming a 
codebreaker for the Judicial Police.
 Tonight, the cryptographer in Sophie was forced to respect the efficiency with which her 
grandfather had used a simple code to unite two total strangers—Sophie Neveu and Robert 
Langdon.
 The question was why?
 Unfortunately, from the bewildered look in Langdon
You and my grandfather had planned to meet tonight. What about?
His secretary set the meeting and didn't offer any specific reason, 
and I didn't ask. I assumed he'd heard I would be lecturing on the pagan iconography of French 
cathedrals, was interested in the topic, and thought it would be fun to meet for drinks after the 
talk.
t buy it. The connection was flimsy. Her grandfather knew more about pagan 
iconography than anyone else on earth. Moreover, he an exceptionally private man, not someone 
prone to chatting with random American professors unless there were an important reason.
 Sophie took a deep breath and probed further. "My grandfather called me this afternoon and told 
me he and I were in grave danger. Does that mean anything to you?"
 Langdon
No, but considering what just happened...
s events, she would be a fool not to be frightened. Feeling 
drained, she walked to the small plate-glass window at the far end of the bathroom and gazed out in 
silence through the mesh of alarm tape embedded in the glass. They were high up—forty feet at 
least.
 Sighing, she raised her eyes and gazed out at Paris
s 
outer wall. Far below, the usual caravan of the city
I don't know what to say,
Your grandfather is obviously 
trying to tell us something. I'm sorry I'm so little help.
s deep voice. Even with all the 
trouble around him, he obviously wanted to help her. The teacher in him, she thought, having read 
DCPJ
s message be? Sophie needed more time with Langdon. Time to think. Time to sort out 
this mystery together. Unfortunately, time was running out.
 Gazing up at Langdon, Sophie made the only play she could think of. "Bezu Fache will be taking 
you into custody at any minute. I can get you out of this museum. But we need to act now."
 Langdon
You want me to run?
It's the smartest thing you could do. If you let Fache take you into custody now, you'll spend 
weeks in a French jail while DCPJ and the U.S. Embassy fight over which courts try your case. But 
if we get you out of here, and make it to your embassy, then your government will protect your 
rights while you and I prove you had nothing to do with this murder.
Forget it! Fache has armed guards on every single 
exit! Even if we escape without being shot, running away only makes me look guilty. You need to 
tell Fache that the message on the floor was for you, and that my name is not there as an 
accusation.
I will do that,
but after you're safely inside the U.S. Embassy. 
It's only about a mile from here, and my car is parked just outside the museum. Dealing with Fache 
from here is too much of a gamble. Don't you see? Fache has made it his mission tonight to prove 
you are guilty. The only reason he postponed your arrest was to run this observance in hopes you 
did something that made his case stronger.
Exactly. Like running!
s sweater pocket suddenly began ringing. Fache probably. She reached in 
her sweater and turned off the phone.
 "Mr. Langdon," she said hurriedly, "I need to ask you one last question." And your entire future 
may depend on it. "The writing on the floor is obviously not proof of your guilt, and yet Fache told 
our team he is certain you are his man. Can you think of any other reason he might be convinced 
you

 Langdon was silent for several seconds. 

 Sophie sighed. Which means Fache is lying. Why, Sophie could not begin to imagine, but that was 
hardly the issue at this point. The fact remained that Bezu Fache was determined to put Robert 
Langdon behind bars tonight, at any cost. Sophie needed Langdon for herself, and it was this 
dilemma that left Sophie only one logical conclusion.
 I need to get Langdon to the U.S. Embassy.
 Turning toward the window, Sophie gazed through the alarm mesh embedded in the plate glass, 
down the dizzying forty feet to the pavement below. A leap from this height would leave Langdon 
with a couple of broken legs. At best.
 Nonetheless, Sophie made her decision.
 Robert Langdon was about to escape the Louvre, whether he wanted to or not.
 CHAPTER 17
 
s not answering?" Fache looked incredulous. "You
s carrying it."
 Collet had been trying to reach Sophie now for several minutes. "Maybe her batteries are dead. Or 
her ringer

 Fache had looked distressed ever since talking to the director of Cryptology on the phone. After 
hanging up, he had marched over to Collet and demanded he get Agent Neveu on the line. Now 
Collet had failed, and Fache was pacing like a caged lion.
 
 Collet now ventured.
 Fache turned. 

 
s all?"
 "No, also to tell us that they had just identified the numerics as Fibonacci numbers, but they 
suspected the series was meaningless."
Collet was confused. "But they already sent Agent Neveu to tell us that."
 Fache shook his head. "They didn

 

 
d wired 
him. When Agent Neveu arrived, she took one look at the photos of Saunière and the code and left 
the office without a word. The director said he didn

 
s never seen a picture of a dead body?"
 Fache was silent a moment. "I was not aware of this, and it seems neither was the director until a 
coworker informed him, but apparently Sophie Neveu is Jacques Saunière

 Collet was speechless.
 
t want preferential treatment for having a famous grandfather."
 No wonder she was upset by the pictures. Collet could barely conceive of the unfortunate 
coincidence that called in a young woman to decipher a code written by a dead family member. 
Still, her actions made no sense. "But she obviously recognized the numbers as Fibonacci numbers 
because she came here and told us. I don

 Collet could think of only one scenario to explain the troubling developments: Saunière had written 
a numeric code on the floor in hopes Fache would involve cryptographers in the investigation, and 
therefore involve his own granddaughter. As for the rest of the message, was Saunière 
communicating in some way with his granddaughter? If so, what did the message tell her? And 
how did Langdon fit in?
 Before Collet could ponder it any further, the silence of the deserted museum was shattered by an 
alarm. The bell sounded like it was coming from inside the Grand Gallery.
 
 one of the agents yelled, eyeing his feed from the Louvre security center. 

 Fache wheeled to Collet. 
s Langdon?"
 "Still in the men
 Collet pointed to the blinking red dot on his laptop schematic. 
 Collet knew Langdon wouldn't get far. Although Paris fire codes 
required windows above fifteen meters in public buildings be breakable in case of fire, exiting a 
Louvre second-story window without the help of a hook and ladder would be suicide. Furthermore, 
there were no trees or grass on the western end of the Denon Wing to cushion a fall. Directly 
beneath that rest room window, the two-lane Place du Carrousel ran within a few feet of the outer 
wall. 
 Collet exclaimed, eyeing the screen. 
s moving to the window ledge!"
 But Fache was already in motion. Yanking his Manurhin MR-93 revolver from his shoulder 
holster, the captain dashed out of the office.
 Collet watched the screen in bewilderment as the blinking dot arrived at the window ledge and then 
did something utterly unexpected. The dot moved outside the perimeter of the building.
 What
Jesu!
s radio blared over the distant sound of the alarm.
 "He jumped!" Collet was yelling. "I
s not moving at all! Jesus, I think Langdon has just committed suicide!"
 Fache heard the words, but they made no sense. He kept running. The hallway seemed never
ending. As he sprinted past Saunière
Wait!
s voice blared again over the radio. "He
s alive. Langdon

Fache kept running, cursing the length of the hallway with every step.
 
s moving faster!" Collet was still yelling on the radio. "He
s picking up speed. He

 Arriving at the partitions, Fache snaked his way through them, saw the rest room door, and ran for 
it.
 The walkie-talkie was barely audible now over the alarm. 
s in a 
car! I can

 Collet's words were swallowed by the alarm as Fache finally burst into the men's room with his gun 
drawn. Wincing against the piercing shrill, he scanned the area.
 The stalls were empty. The bathroom deserted. Fache's eyes moved immediately to the shattered 
window at the far end of the room. He ran to the opening and looked over the edge. Langdon was 
nowhere to be seen. Fache could not imagine anyone risking a stunt like this. Certainly if he had 
dropped that far, he would be badly injured.
 The alarm cut off finally, and Collet's voice became audible again over the walkie-talkie.
 

 Fache turned to his left. The only vehicle on Pont du Carrousel was an enormous twin-bed Trailor 
delivery truck moving southward away from the Louvre. The truck's open-air bed was covered 
with a vinyl tarp, roughly resembling a giant hammock. Fache felt a shiver of apprehension. That 
truck, only moments ago, had probably been stopped at a red light directly beneath the rest room 
window.
 An insane risk, Fache told himself. Langdon had no way of knowing what the truck was carrying 
beneath that tarp. What if the truck were carrying steel? Or cement? Or even garbage? A forty-foot 
leap? It was madness.
 
 Collet called. 
s turning right on Pont des Saints-Peres!"
 Sure enough, the Trailor truck that had crossed the bridge was slowing down and making a right 
turn onto Pont des Saints-Peres. So be it, Fache thought. Amazed, he watched the truck disappear 
around the corner. Collet was already radioing the agents outside, pulling them off the Louvre 
perimeter and sending them to their patrol cars in pursuit, all the while broadcasting the truck
s over, Fache knew. His men would have the truck surrounded within minutes. Langdon was not 
going anywhere.
Stowing his weapon, Fache exited the rest room and radioed Collet. "Bring my car around. I want 
to be there when we make the arrest."
 As Fache jogged back down the length of the Grand Gallery, he wondered if Langdon had even 
survived the fall.
 Not that it mattered.
 Langdon ran. Guilty as charged.
 Only fifteen yards from the rest room, Langdon and Sophie stood in the darkness of the Grand 
Gallery, their backs pressed to one of the large partitions that hid the bathrooms from the gallery. 
They had barely managed to hide themselves before Fache had darted past them, gun drawn, and 
disappeared into the bathroom.
 The last sixty seconds had been a blur.
 Langdon had been standing inside the men
t commit, 
when Sophie began eyeing the plate-glass window and examining the alarm mesh running through 
it. Then she peered downward into the street, as if measuring the drop.
 "With a little aim, you can get out of here," she said.
 Aim? Uneasy, he peered out the rest room window.
 Up the street, an enormous twin-bed eighteen-wheeler was headed for the stoplight beneath the 
window. Stretched across the truck
s load. Langdon hoped Sophie was not thinking what she seemed to be thinking.
 "Sophie, there
m jump—"
 "Take out the tracking dot."
 Bewildered, Langdon fumbled in his pocket until he found the tiny metallic disk. Sophie took it 
from him and strode immediately to the sink. She grabbed a thick bar of soap, placed the tracking 
dot on top of it, and used her thumb to push the disk down hard into the bar. As the disk sank into 
the soft surface, she pinched the hole closed, firmly embedding the device in the bar.
 Handing the bar to Langdon, Sophie retrieved a heavy, cylindrical trash can from under the sinks. 
Before Langdon could protest, Sophie ran at the window, holding the can before her like a 
battering ram. Driving the bottom of the trash can into the center of the window, she shattered the 
glass.
 Alarms erupted overhead at earsplitting decibel levels.
 "Give me the soap!" Sophie yelled, barely audible over the alarm.
 Langdon thrust the bar into her hand.
 Palming the soap, she peered out the shattered window at the eighteen-wheeler idling below. The 
target was plenty big—an expansive, stationary tarp—and it was less than ten feet from the side of 
the building. As the traffic lights prepared to change, Sophie took a deep breath and lobbed the bar 
of soap out into the night.
 The soap plummeted downward toward the truck, landing on the edge of the tarp, and sliding 
downward into the cargo bay just as the traffic light turned green.
 "Congratulations," Sophie said, dragging him toward the door. "You just escaped from the 
Louvre."
 Fleeing the men
There's an emergency stairwell about fifty meters back into the Grand Gallery,
Now that the guards are leaving the perimeter, we can get out of here.
s 
demeanor as she led him into the sanctuary. He was not surprised by this. Silas was accustomed to 
people being uncomfortable with his appearance.
 "You
 she said.
 
 Silas responded. 

 Sister Sandrine nodded. She was a small woman with quiet eyes. 

 

 

 

 

 You have no idea, Silas thought.
 As he followed Sister Sandrine down the main aisle, Silas was surprised by the austerity of the 
sanctuary. Unlike Notre Dame with its colorful frescoes, gilded altar-work, and warm wood, Saint
Sulpice was stark and cold, conveying an almost barren quality reminiscent of the ascetic 
cathedrals of Spain. The lack of decor made the interior look even more expansive, and as Silas 
gazed up into the soaring ribbed vault of the ceiling, he imagined he was standing beneath the hull 
of an enormous overturned ship.
 A fitting image, he thought. The brotherhood's ship was about to be capsized forever. Feeling eager 
to get to work, Silas wished Sister Sandrine would leave him. She was a small woman whom Silas 
could incapacitate easily, but he had vowed not to use force unless absolutely necessary. She is a 
woman of the cloth, and it is not her fault the brotherhood chose her church as a hiding place for 
their keystone. She should not be punished for the sins of others.
 

 



 She gave a pleasant laugh. 

 Silas felt his eyes focus on the altar. 

 
 she said. 

 Silas stopped walking. They had reached the front pew now, and the altar was only fifteen yards 
away. He turned his massive body fully toward the small woman, and he could sense her recoil as 
she gazed up into his red eyes. 

 Sister Sandrine hesitated. 

 Silas put a soft but heavy hand on her shoulder and peered down. 

 She looked uneasy. 
t feel abandoned?"
 "Not at all. Prayer is a solitary joy."
 "As you wish."
 Silas took his hand from her shoulder. "Sleep well, Sister. May the peace of the Lord be with you."
 "And also with you." Sister Sandrine headed for the stairs. "Please be sure the door closes tightly 
on your way out."
 "I will be sure of it." Silas watched her climb out of sight. Then he turned and knelt in the front 
pew, feeling the cilice cut into his leg.
 Dear God, I offer up to you this work I do today....
 Crouching in the shadows of the choir balcony high above the altar, Sister Sandrine peered silently 
through the balustrade at the cloaked monk kneeling alone. The sudden dread in her soul made it 
hard to stay still. For a fleeting instant, she wondered if this mysterious visitor could be the enemy 
they had warned her about, and if tonight she would have to carry out the orders she had been 
holding all these years. She decided to stay there in the darkness and watch his every move.
 CHAPTER 20
 Emerging from the shadows, Langdon and Sophie moved stealthily up the deserted Grand Gallery 
corridor toward the emergency exit stairwell.
 As he moved, Langdon felt like he was trying to assemble a jigsaw puzzle in the dark. The newest 
aspect of this mystery was a deeply troubling one: The captain of the Judicial Police is trying to 
frame me for murder
 "Do you think," he whispered, "that maybe Fache wrote that message on the floor?"
 Sophie didn
Impossible.
t so sure. "He seems pretty intent on making me look guilty. Maybe he thought 
writing my name on the floor would help his case?"
 "The Fibonacci sequence? The P.S.? All the Da Vinci and goddess symbolism? That had to be my 
grandfather."
 Langdon knew she was right. The symbolism of the clues meshed too perfectly—the pentacle, The 
Vitruvian Man, Da Vinci, the goddess, and even the Fibonacci sequence. A coherent symbolic set, 
as iconographers would call it. All inextricably tied.
 "And his phone call to me this afternoon," Sophie added. "He said he had to tell me something. I

 Langdon frowned. O, Draconian devil! Oh, lame saint.! He wished he could comprehend the 
message, both for Sophie's well-being and for his own. Things had definitely gotten worse since he 
first laid eyes on the cryptic words. His fake leap out the bathroom window was not going to help 
Langdon's popularity with Fache one bit. Somehow he doubted the captain of the French police 
would see the humor in chasing down and arresting a bar of soap.
 
t much farther," Sophie said.
 "Do you think there
s message hold the key to 
understanding the other lines?" Langdon had once worked on a series of Baconian manuscripts that 
contained epigraphical ciphers in which certain lines of code were clues as to how to decipher the 
other lines.
 "I
t see anything. 
Mathematically, they

 
re all part of the Fibonacci sequence. That can

 
s not. Using Fibonacci numbers was my grandfather

 

 
t get a chance to tell you, but the pentacle was a special symbol between my 
grandfather and me when I was growing up. We used to play Tarot cards for fun, and my indicator 
card always turned out to be from the suit of pentacles. I

 Langdon felt a chill. They played Tarot? The medieval Italian card game was so replete with 
hidden heretical symbolism that Langdon had dedicated an entire chapter in his new manuscript to 
the Tarot. The game's twenty-two cards bore names like The Female Pope, The Empress, and The 
Star. Originally, Tarot had been devised as a secret means to pass along ideologies banned by the 
Church. Now, Tarot's mystical qualities were passed on by modern fortune-tellers.
 The Tarot indicator suit for feminine divinity is pentacles, Langdon thought, realizing that if 
Saunière had been stacking his granddaughter's deck for fun, pentacles was an apropos inside joke.
 They arrived at the emergency stairwell, and Sophie carefully pulled open the door. No alarm 
sounded. Only the doors to the outside were wired. Sophie led Langdon down a tight set of 
switchback stairs toward the ground level, picking up speed as they went.
 
 Langdon said, hurrying behind her, 

 Sophie shook her head. 

 Langdon was surprised. 

 
 Her expression turned sheepish. 

 Langdon considered it a moment and then groaned.
s-o-PHI-e.
 Still descending, Langdon refocused on PHI. He was starting to realize that Saunière's clues were 
even more consistent than he had first imagined.
 Da Vinci... Fibonacci numbers... the pentacle.
 Incredibly, all of these things were connected by a single concept so fundamental to art history that 
Langdon often spent several class periods on the topic.
 PHI.
 He felt himself suddenly reeling back to Harvard, standing in front of his 
 class, 
writing his favorite number on the chalkboard.
 1.618
 Langdon turned to face his sea of eager students. 

 A long-legged math major in back raised his hand. 
s the number PHI." He pronounced it fee.
 "Nice job, Stettner," Langdon said. "Everyone, meet PHI."
 "Not to be confused with PI," Stettner added, grinning. "As we mathematicians like to say: PHI is 
one H of a lot cooler than PI!"
 Langdon laughed, but nobody else seemed to get the joke.
 Stettner slumped.
 "This number PHI," Langdon continued, "one-point-six-one-eight, is a very important number in 
art. Who can tell me why?"
 Stettner tried to redeem himself. "Because it

 Everyone laughed.
 
 Langdon said, 
s right again. PHI is generally considered the most beautiful 
number in the universe."
 The laughter abruptly stopped, and Stettner gloated.
As Langdon loaded his slide projector, he explained that the number PHI was derived from the 
Fibonacci sequence—a progression famous not only because the sum of adjacent terms equaled the 
next term, but because the quotients of adjacent terms possessed the astonishing property of 
approaching the number 1.618—PHI!
 Despite PHI
PHI's ubiquity in nature,
clearly exceeds coincidence, and so 
the ancients assumed the number PHI must have been preordained by the Creator of the universe. 
Early scientists heralded one-point-six-one-eight as the Divine Proportion.
Hold on,
I'm a bio major and I've never seen this Divine 
Proportion in nature.
No?
Ever study the relationship between females and males in a honeybee 
community?
Sure. The female bees always outnumber the male bees.
Correct. And did you know that if you divide the number of female bees by the number of male 
bees in any beehive in the world, you always get the same number?
You do?
Yup. PHI.
NO WAY!
Way!
Recognize this?
It's a nautilus,
A cephalopod mollusk that pumps gas into its chambered shell 
to adjust its buoyancy.
Correct. And can you guess what the ratio is of each spiral's diameter to the next?
PHI. The Divine Proportion. One-point-six-one-eight to one.
s seed head. "Sunflower seeds grow 
in opposing spirals. Can you guess the ratio of each rotation

 
 everyone said.
 
 Langdon began racing through slides now—spiraled pinecone petals, leaf arrangement on 
plant stalks, insect segmentation—all displaying astonishing obedience to the Divine Proportion.
 
 someone cried out.
 
 someone else said, 

 
 Langdon said. 
 He pulled up another slide—a pale yellow parchment 
displaying Leonardo da Vinci's famous male nude—The Vitruvian Man—named for Marcus 
Vitruvius, the brilliant Roman architect who praised the Divine Proportion in his text De 
Architectura.
 

 Everyone in class gave him a dubious look.
 
t believe me?" Langdon challenged. "Next time you

 A couple of football players snickered.
 
 Langdon prompted. 

 
 one of the jocks blurted out in disbelief.
 
 Langdon replied. 

 Even in the darkness, Langdon could see they were all astounded. He felt a familiar warmth inside. 
This is why he taught. 
s building 
block for the world, and they worshipped Nature because of that. And one can understand why. 
God
t even know it. May Day is 
a perfect example, the celebration of spring... the earth coming back to life to produce her bounty. 
The mysterious magic inherent in the Divine Proportion was written at the beginning of time. Man 
is simply playing by Nature
s attempt to imitate the beauty of the 
Creator

 Over the next half hour, Langdon showed them slides of artwork by Michelangelo, Albrecht Dürer, 
Da Vinci, and many others, demonstrating each artist's intentional and rigorous adherence to the 
Divine Proportion in the layout of his compositions. Langdon unveiled PHI in the architectural 
dimensions of the Greek Parthenon, the pyramids of Egypt, and even the United Nations Building 
in New York. PHI appeared in the organizational structures of Mozart's sonatas, Beethoven's Fifth 
Symphony, as well as the works of Bartók, Debussy, and Schubert. The number PHI, Langdon told 
them, was even used by Stradivarius to calculate the exact placement of the f-holes in the 
construction of his famous violins.
 
 Langdon said, walking to the chalkboard, 
 He drew five 
intersecting lines that formed a five-pointed star. 

 Stettner, the math major, raised his hand. 

 Langdon gave the kid a proud nod. 

 The girls in class beamed.
 
ve only touched on Da Vinci today, but we
ll show you his fresco The Last Supper, which is one of the most astonishing tributes 
to the sacred feminine you will ever see."
 "You
 somebody said. 

 Langdon winked. 


 Sophie whispered. 
s wrong? We

 Langdon glanced up, feeling himself return from faraway thoughts. He realized he was standing at 
a dead stop on the stairs, paralyzed by sudden revelation.
 O, Draconian devil! Oh, lame saint!
 Sophie was looking back at him.
 It can't be that simple, Langdon thought.
 But he knew of course that it was.
 There in the bowels of the Louvre... with images of PHI and Da Vinci swirling through his mind, 
Robert Langdon suddenly and unexpectedly deciphered Saunière's code.
 
 he said. 
s the simplest kind of code!"
 Sophie was stopped on the stairs below him, staring up in confusion. A code? She had been 
pondering the words all night and had not seen a code. Especially a simple one.
 "You said it yourself." Langdon
Fibonacci numbers only 
have meaning in their proper order. Otherwise they're mathematical gibberish.
s message again.
 13-3-2-21-1-1-8-5
 O, Draconian devil!
 Oh, lame saint!
 What about the numbers?
 "The scrambled Fibonacci sequence is a clue," Langdon said, taking the printout. "The numbers are 
a hint as to how to decipher the rest of the message. He wrote the sequence out of order to tell us to 
apply the same concept to the text. O, Draconian devil? Oh, lame saint? Those lines mean nothing. 
They are simply letters written out of order."
 Sophie needed only an instant to process Langdon
You think this message is... une anagramme?
Like a word jumble from a 
newspaper?
s face and certainly understood. Few people realized 
that anagrams, despite being a trite modern amusement, had a rich history of sacred symbolism.
 The mystical teachings of the Kabbala drew heavily on anagrams—rearranging the letters of 
Hebrew words to derive new meanings. French kings throughout the Renaissance were so 
convinced that anagrams held magic power that they appointed royal anagrammatists to help them 
make better decisions by analyzing words in important documents. The Romans actually referred 
to the study of anagrams as ars magna—"the great art."
 Langdon looked up at Sophie, locking eyes with her now. "Your grandfather

 Without another word, Langdon pulled a pen from his jacket pocket and rearranged the letters in 
each line.
 O, Draconian devil! Oh, lame saint!
 was a perfect anagram of...
 The Mona Lisa.
 Leonardo da Vinci! The Mona Lisa!
 CHAPTER 21
 For an instant, standing in the exit stairwell, Sophie forgot all about trying to leave the Louvre.
 Her shock over the anagram was matched only by her embarrassment at not having deciphered the 
message herself. Sophie's expertise in complex cryptanalysis had caused her to overlook simplistic 
word games, and yet she knew she should have seen it. After all, she was no stranger to 
anagrams—especially in English.
 When she was young, often her grandfather would use anagram games to hone her English 
spelling. Once he had written the English word 
 and told Sophie that an astonishing sixty
two other English words of varying lengths could be formed using those same letters. Sophie had 
spent three days with an English dictionary until she found them all.
 
t imagine," Langdon said, staring at the printout, "how your grandfather created such an 
intricate anagram in the minutes before he died."
 Sophie knew the explanation, and the realization made her feel even worse. I should have seen this! 
She now recalled that her grandfather—a wordplay aficionado and art lover—had entertained 
himself as a young man by creating anagrams of famous works of art. In fact, one of his anagrams 
had gotten him in trouble once when Sophie was a little girl. While being interviewed by an 
American art magazine, Saunière had expressed his distaste for the modernist Cubist movement by 
noting that Picasso
Avignon was a perfect anagram of vile 
meaningless doodles. Picasso fans were not amused.
 "My grandfather probably created this Mona Lisa anagram long ago," Sophie said, glancing up at 
Langdon. And tonight he was forced to use it as a makeshift code. Her grandfather
s Mona Lisa.
 "She
 her grandfather had whispered, clutching Sophie's tiny hand as he led 
her through the deserted museum after hours.
Sophie was six years old. She felt small and insignificant as she gazed up at the enormous ceilings 
and down at the dizzying floor. The empty museum frightened her, although she was not about to 
let her grandfather know that. She set her jaw firmly and let go of his hand.
 
 her grandfather said as they approached the Louvre's most 
famous room. Despite her grandfather's obvious excitement, Sophie wanted to go home. She had 
seen pictures of the Mona Lisa in books and didn't like it at all. She couldn't understand why 
everyone made such a fuss.
 
est ennuyeux," Sophie grumbled.
 "Boring," he corrected. "French at school. English at home."
 "Le Louvre, c
 she challenged.
 He gave her a tired laugh. 
s speak English just for fun."
 Sophie pouted and kept walking. As they entered the Salle des Etats, her eyes scanned the narrow 
room and settled on the obvious spot of honor—the center of the right-hand wall, where a lone 
portrait hung behind a protective Plexiglas wall. Her grandfather paused in the doorway and 
motioned toward the painting.
 "Go ahead, Sophie. Not many people get a chance to visit her alone."
 Swallowing her apprehension, Sophie moved slowly across the room. After everything she
So what do you think?
Beautiful, yes?
She's too little.
You're little and you're beautiful.
She's even worse 
than in the books. Her face is... brumeux.
Foggy,
Foggy,
That's called the sfumato style of painting,
and it's very hard to do. Leonardo da 
Vinci was better at it than anyone.
t like the painting. "She looks like she knows something... like when kids at school 
have a secret."
 Her grandfather laughed. "That

 
s smiling?"
 "Maybe." Her grandfather winked. "Someday I

 Sophie stamped her foot. 
t like secrets!"
 "Princess," he smiled. "Life is filled with secrets. You can

 
m going back up," Sophie declared, her voice hollow in the stairwell.
 "To the Mona Lisa?" Langdon recoiled. "Now?"
 Sophie considered the risk. "I
ll take my chances. I need to understand 
what my grandfather was trying to tell me."
 "What about the embassy?"
 Sophie felt guilty turning Langdon into a fugitive only to abandon him, but she saw no other 
option. She pointed down the stairs to a metal door. "Go through that door, and follow the 
illuminated exit signs. My grandfather used to bring me down here. The signs will lead you to a 
security turnstile. It
 She handed Langdon her car keys. 

 Langdon nodded, eyeing the keys in his hand.
 
 Sophie said, her voice softening. 
m in danger." Or what happened 
to my family. "I have to go see."
 "But if he wanted to tell you why you were in danger, why wouldn

 
t think he wanted anyone else to hear it. Not 
even the police." Clearly, her grandfather had done everything in his power to send a confidential 
transmission directly to her. He had written it in code, included her secret initials, and told her to 
find Robert Langdon—a wise command, considering the American symbologist had deciphered his 
code. "As strange as it may sound," Sophie said, "I think he wants me to get to the Mona Lisa 
before anyone else does."
 "I

 
t know how long the Grand Gallery will stay empty. You have to go."
 Langdon seemed hesitant, as if his own academic curiosity were threatening to override sound 
judgment and drag him back into Fache
Go. Now.
I'll see you at the embassy, Mr. Langdon.
I'll meet you there on one condition,
What's that?
That you stop calling me Mr. Langdon.
s face, and she felt herself 
smile back. "Good luck, Robert."
 When Langdon reached the landing at the bottom of the stairs, the unmistakable smell of linseed 
oil and plaster dust assaulted his nostrils. Ahead, an illuminated SORTIE/EXIT displayed an arrow 
pointing down a long corridor.
 Langdon stepped into the hallway.
 To the right gaped a murky restoration studio out of which peered an army of statues in various 
states of repair. To the left, Langdon saw a suite of studios that resembled Harvard art 
classrooms—rows of easels, paintings, palettes, framing tools—an art assembly line.
As he moved down the hallway, Langdon wondered if at any moment he might awake with a start 
in his bed in Cambridge. The entire evening had felt like a bizarre dream. I
s clever anagrammatic message was still on his mind, and Langdon wondered what 
Sophie would find at the Mona Lisa... if anything. She had seemed certain her grandfather meant 
for her to visit the famous painting one more time. As plausible an interpretation as this seemed, 
Langdon felt haunted now by a troubling paradox.
 P.S. Find Robert Langdon.
 Saunière had written Langdon
ve never 
even met. More important, Sophie had stated flat out that she should have broken the anagram on 
her own. It had been Sophie who spotted the Fibonacci sequence, and, no doubt, Sophie who, if 
given a little more time, would have deciphered the message with no help from Langdon.
 Sophie was supposed to break that anagram on her own. Langdon was suddenly feeling more 
certain about this, and yet the conclusion left an obvious gaping lapse in the logic of Saunière
s dying wish that his 
estranged granddaughter find me? What is it that Saunière thinks I know?
 With an unexpected jolt, Langdon stopped short. Eyes wide, he dug in his pocket and yanked out 
the computer printout. He stared at the last line of Saunière
s puzzling mix of symbolism fall into stark focus. Like a peal 
of thunder, a career
s thoughts raced as he tried to assemble the implications of what this all meant. Wheeling, 
he stared back in the direction from which he had come.
Is there time?
 He knew it didn
s floor. The line bore graduated markings, like a ruler. It was a 
gnomon, Silas had been told, a pagan astronomical device like a sundial. Tourists, scientists, 
historians, and pagans from around the world came to Saint-Sulpice to gaze upon this famous line.
 The Rose Line.
 Slowly, Silas let his eyes trace the path of the brass strip as it made its way across the floor from 
his right to left, slanting in front of him at an awkward angle, entirely at odds with the symmetry of 
the church. Slicing across the main altar itself, the line looked to Silas like a slash wound across a 
beautiful face. The strip cleaved the communion rail in two and then crossed the entire width of the 
church, finally reaching the corner of the north transept, where it arrived at the base of a most 
unexpected structure.
 A colossal Egyptian obelisk.
 Here, the glistening Rose Line took a ninety-degree vertical turn and continued directly up the face 
of the obelisk itself, ascending thirty-three feet to the very tip of the pyramidical apex, where it 
finally ceased.
The Rose Line, Silas thought. The brotherhood hid the keystone at the Rose Line.
 Earlier tonight, when Silas told the Teacher that the Priory keystone was hidden inside Saint
Sulpice, the Teacher had sounded doubtful. But when Silas added that the brothers had all given 
him a precise location, with relation to a brass line running through Saint-Sulpice, the Teacher had 
gasped with revelation. "You speak of the Rose Line!"
 The Teacher quickly told Silas of Saint-Sulpice
s rays, shining through the 
oculus on the south wall, moved farther down the line every day, indicating the passage of time, 
from solstice to solstice.
 The north-south stripe had been known as the Rose Line. For centuries, the symbol of the Rose had 
been associated with maps and guiding souls in the proper direction. The Compass Rose—drawn 
on almost every map—indicated North, East, South, and West. Originally known as the Wind 
Rose, it denoted the directions of the thirty-two winds, blowing from the directions of eight major 
winds, eight half-winds, and sixteen quarter-winds. When diagrammed inside a circle, these thirty
two points of the compass perfectly resembled a traditional thirty-two petal rose bloom. To this 
day, the fundamental navigational tool was still known as a Compass Rose, its northernmost 
direction still marked by an arrowhead... or, more commonly, the symbol of the fleur-de-lis.
 On a globe, a Rose Line—also called a meridian or longitude—was any imaginary line drawn from 
the North Pole to the South Pole. There were, of course, an infinite number of Rose Lines because 
every point on the globe could have a longitude drawn through it connecting north and south poles. 
The question for early navigators was which of these lines would be called the Rose Line—the zero 
longitude—the line from which all other longitudes on earth would be measured.
 Today that line was in Greenwich, England.
 But it had not always been.
 Long before the establishment of Greenwich as the prime meridian, the zero longitude of the entire 
world had passed directly through Paris, and through the Church of Saint-Sulpice. The brass 
marker in Saint-Sulpice was a memorial to the world
And so the legend is true,
The Priory keystone has been said to lie 
'beneath the Sign of the Rose.' 
Benvenuto a Roma,
s body still lay under the spotlight.
 The remorse that gripped her was powerful and sudden, a deep sadness laced with guilt. The man 
had reached out to her so many times over the past ten years, and yet Sophie had remained 
immovable—leaving his letters and packages unopened in a bottom drawer and denying his efforts 
to see her. He lied to me! Kept appalling secrets! What was I supposed to do? And so she had 
blocked him out. Completely.
 Now her grandfather was dead, and he was talking to her from the grave.
 The Mona Lisa.
She reached for the huge wooden doors, and pushed. The entryway yawned open. Sophie stood on 
the threshold a moment, scanning the large rectangular chamber beyond. It too was bathed in a soft 
red light. The Salle des Etats was one of this museum
s sole point of entry, faced a 
dominating fifteen-foot Botticelli on the far wall. Beneath it, centered on the parquet floor, an 
immense octagonal viewing divan served as a welcome respite for thousands of visitors to rest their 
legs while they admired the Louvre
s 
someone in here! A ghostly figure emerged suddenly from out of the reddish haze. Sophie jumped 
back.
 "There you are!" Langdon
Robert, I told you to get out of here! If Fache—
Where were you?
I had to get the black light,
If my grandfather left me a message—
Sophie, listen.
The letters P.S.... do 
they mean anything else to you? Anything at all?
I told you, the initials mean Princess 
Sophie.
I know, but did you ever see them anywhere else? Did your grandfather ever use P.S. in any other 
way? As a monogram, or maybe on stationery or a personal item?
s 
bedroom. The room was off-limits to her, but her grandfather was downstairs asleep on the couch.
 I
t wear one. Her heart raced as she realized what it 
must be.
 A necklace!
 Sophie carefully pulled the chain from the drawer. To her surprise, on the end was a brilliant gold 
key. Heavy and shimmering. Spellbound, she held it up. It looked like no key she had ever seen. 
Most keys were flat with jagged teeth, but this one had a triangular column with little pockmarks 
all over it. Its large golden head was in the shape of a cross, but not a normal cross. This was an 
even-armed one, like a plus sign. Embossed in the middle of the cross was a strange symbol—two 
letters intertwined with some kind of flowery design.
 "P.S.," she whispered, scowling as she read the letters. Whatever could this be?
 "Sophie?" her grandfather spoke from the doorway.
 Startled, she spun, dropping the key on the floor with a loud clang. She stared down at the key, 
afraid to look up at her grandfather
I... was looking for my birthday present,
Pick up the key, Sophie.
Sophie, you need to respect other people's privacy.
This key is very special. If you had lost it...
s quiet voice made Sophie feel even worse. "I
 
She paused. 

 He gazed at her for several seconds. 
ll say this once more, Sophie, because it
s privacy."
 "Yes, Grand-père."
 "We

 Sophie hurried outside to do her chores.
 The next morning, Sophie received no birthday present from her grandfather. She hadn't expected 
one, not after what she had done. But he didn't even wish her happy birthday all day. Sadly, she 
trudged up to bed that night. As she climbed in, though, she found a note card lying on her pillow. 
On the card was written a simple riddle. Even before she solved the riddle, she was smiling. I know 
what this is! Her grandfather had done this for her last Christmas morning.
 A treasure hunt!
 Eagerly, she pored over the riddle until she solved it. The solution pointed her to another part of the 
house, where she found another card and another riddle. She solved this one too, racing on to the 
next card. Running wildly, she darted back and forth across the house, from clue to clue, until at 
last she found a clue that directed her back to her own bedroom. Sophie dashed up the stairs, 
rushed into her room, and stopped in her tracks. There in the middle of the room sat a shining red 
bicycle with a ribbon tied to the handlebars. Sophie shrieked with delight.
 
 her grandfather said, smiling in the corner. 

 The next day, her grandfather taught her to ride, running beside her down the walkway. When 
Sophie steered out over the thick lawn and lost her balance, they both went tumbling onto the 
grass, rolling and laughing.
 
 Sophie said, hugging him. 
m really sorry about the key."
 "I know, sweetie. You
t possibly stay mad at you. Grandfathers and 
granddaughters always forgive each other."
 Sophie knew she shouldn
t help it. "What does it open? I never saw a key like 
that. It was very pretty."
 Her grandfather was silent a long moment, and Sophie could see he was uncertain how to answer. 
Grand-père never lies. "It opens a box," he finally said. "Where I keep many secrets."
 Sophie pouted. "I hate secrets!"
 "I know, but these are important secrets. And someday, you

 

 
s my favorite flower. It

 
re my favorite too!"
 "Then I
 Her grandfather's eyebrows raised the way they always did when 
he was about to give her a challenge. 

 Sophie couldn't believe her ears. 

 

 Sophie scowled. 
t. It said P.S. My name isn

 Her grandfather lowered his voice and looked around as if to make sure no one was listening. 

s your secret initials."
 Her eyes went wide. "I have secret initials?"
 "Of course. Granddaughters always have secret initials that only their grandfathers know."
 "P.S.?"
 He tickled her. "Princesse Sophie."
 She giggled. "I

 He winked. 

 From that day on, they never again spoke of the key. And she became his Princess Sophie.
Inside the Salle des Etats, Sophie stood in silence and endured the sharp pang of loss.
 
 Langdon whispered, eyeing her strangely. 

 Sophie sensed her grandfather's voice whispering in the corridors of the museum. Never speak of 
this key, Sophie. To me or to anyone. She knew she had failed him in forgiveness, and she 
wondered if she could break his trust again. P.S. Find Robert Langdon. Her grandfather wanted 
Langdon to help. Sophie nodded. 

 

 Sophie hesitated. 

 Langdon locked eyes with her. 

 Sophie felt herself staggering backward in amazement. 

 Langdon exhaled and lowered his voice. 
m fairly certain your grandfather was a member of a 
secret society. A very old covert brotherhood."
 Sophie felt a knot tighten in her stomach. She was certain of it too. For ten years she had tried to 
forget the incident that had confirmed that horrifying fact for her. She had witnessed something 
unthinkable. Unforgivable.
 "The fleur-de-lis," Langdon said, "combined with the initials P.S., that is the brotherhood

 
 Sophie was praying Langdon was not going to tell her that he himself 
was a member.
 
ve written about this group," he said, his voice tremulous with excitement. "Researching the 
symbols of secret societies is a specialty of mine. They call themselves the Prieuré de Sion—the 
Priory of Sion. They

 Sophie had never heard of them.
 Langdon was talking in rapid bursts now. 
s membership has included some of history
 He paused, his 
voice brimming now with academic zeal. 

 Sophie stared. 


s Grand Master, 
which might help explain your grandfather
s work. The two men share a 
historical fraternal bond. And it all fits perfectly with their fascination for goddess iconology, 
paganism, feminine deities, and contempt for the Church. The Priory has a well-documented 
history of reverence for the sacred feminine."
 "You

 

 Despite the total conviction in Langdon's eyes, Sophie's gut reaction was one of stark disbelief. A 
secret pagan cult? Once headed by Leonardo da Vinci? It all sounded utterly absurd. And yet, even 
as she dismissed it, she felt her mind reeling back ten years—to the night she had mistakenly 
surprised her grandfather and witnessed what she still could not accept. Could that explain—?
 
 Langdon said, 

 Sophie realized now that Langdon knew far more about her grandfather than she had previously 
imagined. This American obviously had volumes to share with her, but this was not the place. 
t afford to let them catch you, Robert. There

 Langdon heard only the faint murmur of her voice. He wasn't going anywhere. He was lost in 
another place now. A place where ancient secrets rose to the surface. A place where forgotten 
histories emerged from the shadows.
 Slowly, as if moving underwater, Langdon turned his head and gazed through the reddish haze 
toward the Mona Lisa.
 The fleur-de-lis... the flower of Lisa... the Mona Lisa.
 It was all intertwined, a silent symphony echoing the deepest secrets of the Priory of Sion and 
Leonardo da Vinci.
 A few miles away, on the riverbank beyond Les Invalides, the bewildered driver of a twin-bed 
Trailor truck stood at gunpoint and watched as the captain of the Judicial Police let out a guttural 
roar of rage and heaved a bar of soap out into the turgid waters of the Seine.
CHAPTER 24
 Silas gazed upward at the Saint-Sulpice obelisk, taking in the length of the massive marble shaft. 
His sinews felt taut with exhilaration. He glanced around the church one more time to make sure he 
was alone. Then he knelt at the base of the structure, not out of reverence, but out of necessity.
 The keystone is hidden beneath the Rose Line.
 At the base of the Sulpice obelisk.
 All the brothers had concurred.
 On his knees now, Silas ran his hands across the stone floor. He saw no cracks or markings to 
indicate a movable tile, so he began rapping softly with his knuckles on the floor. Following the 
brass line closer to the obelisk, he knocked on each tile adjacent to the brass line. Finally, one of 
them echoed strangely.
 There's a hollow area beneath the floor!
 Silas smiled. His victims had spoken the truth.
 Standing, he searched the sanctuary for something with which to break the floor tile.
 High above Silas, in the balcony, Sister Sandrine stifled a gasp. Her darkest fears had just been 
confirmed. This visitor was not who he seemed. The mysterious Opus Dei monk had come to Saint
Sulpice for another purpose.
 A secret purpose.
 You are not the only one with secrets, she thought.
 Sister Sandrine Bieil was more than the keeper of this church. She was a sentry. And tonight, the 
ancient wheels had been set in motion. The arrival of this stranger at the base of the obelisk was a 
signal from the brotherhood.
 It was a silent call of distress.
CHAPTER 25
 The U.S. Embassy in Paris is a compact complex on Avenue Gabriel, just north of the Champs
Elysées. The three-acre compound is considered U.S. soil, meaning all those who stand on it are 
subject to the same laws and protections as they would encounter standing in the United States.
 The embassy's night operator was reading Time magazine's International Edition when the sound of 
her phone interrupted.
 
 she answered.
 
 The caller spoke English accented with French. 
 Despite 
the politeness of the man's words, his tone sounded gruff and official. 

 The operator paused, confused. 
m sorry, sir. Your message must be quite old. That system was 
removed two years ago for security precautions. Moreover, all the access codes were five-digit. 
Who told you we had a message for you?"
 "You have no automated phone system?"
 "No, sir. Any message for you would be handwritten in our services department. What was your 
name again?"
 But the man had hung up.
 Bezu Fache felt dumbstruck as he paced the banks of the Seine. He was certain he had seen 
Langdon dial a local number, enter a three-digit code, and then listen to a recording. But if Langdon 
didn
s menu, Fache pulled up the list of recently dialed numbers and found 
the call Langdon had placed.
 A Paris exchange, followed by the three-digit code 454.
 Redialing the phone number, Fache waited as the line began ringing.
Finally a woman
Bonjour, vous êtes bien chez Sophie Neveu,
Je suis absente pour le moment, mais...
s blood was boiling as he typed the numbers 4... 5... 4.
 CHAPTER 26
 Despite her monumental reputation, the Mona Lisa was a mere thirty-one inches by twenty-one 
inches—smaller even than the posters of her sold in the Louvre gift shop. She hung on the 
northwest wall of the Salle des Etats behind a two-inch-thick pane of protective Plexiglas. Painted 
on a poplar wood panel, her ethereal, mist-filled atmosphere was attributed to Da Vinci
s 
"satte impénétrable"—Le Salon Carre. Parisians wept in the streets and wrote newspaper articles 
begging the thieves for the painting
s hand. To the left, the room
s status as the most famous piece of art in the world, Langdon knew, had nothing to 
do with her enigmatic smile. Nor was it due to the mysterious interpretations attributed her by 
many art historians and conspiracy buffs. Quite simply, the Mona Lisa was famous because 
Leonardo da Vinci claimed she was his finest accomplishment. He carried the painting with him 
whenever he traveled and, if asked why, would reply that he found it hard to part with his most 
sublime expression of female beauty.
Even so, many art historians suspected Da Vinci
s veneration for this work, many claimed, stemmed from something far deeper: a hidden 
message in the layers of paint. The Mona Lisa was, in fact, one of the world
s well-documented collage of double entendres and playful allusions had 
been revealed in most art history tomes, and yet, incredibly, the public at large still considered her 
smile a great mystery.
 No mystery at all, Langdon thought, moving forward and watching as the faint outline of the 
painting began to take shape. No mystery at all.
 Most recently Langdon had shared the Mona Lisa
s jail seminar was part of a Harvard outreach 
program attempting to bring education into the prison system—Culture for Convicts, as Langdon
s secret with the prisoners attending class, men whom he found surprisingly engaged—rough, 
but sharp. "You may notice," Langdon told them, walking up to the projected image of the Mona 
Lisa on the library wall, "that the background behind her face is uneven." Langdon motioned to the 
glaring discrepancy. "Da Vinci painted the horizon line on the left significantly lower than the 
right."
 "He screwed it up?" one of the inmates asked.
 Langdon chuckled. "No. Da Vinci didn

 
 said a small man with a goatee.
 Langdon winced. 
t generally put it quite that way, but yes, Da Vinci was a 
homosexual."
 "Is that why he was into that whole feminine thing?"
 "Actually, Da Vinci was in tune with the balance between male and female. He believed that a 
human soul could not be enlightened unless it had both male and female elements."
 "You mean like chicks with dicks?" someone called.
This elicited a hearty round of laughs. Langdon considered offering an etymological sidebar about 
the word hermaphrodite and its ties to Hermes and Aphrodite, but something told him it would be 
lost on this crowd.
 "Hey, Mr. Langford," a muscle-bound man said. "Is it true that the Mona Lisa is a picture of Da 
Vinci in drag? I heard that was true."
 "It
 Langdon said. 
s self-portraits confirm some startling points of congruency in their faces. 
Whatever Da Vinci was up to," Langdon said, "his Mona Lisa is neither male nor female. It carries 
a subtle message of androgyny. It is a fusing of both."
 "You sure that

 Now Langdon laughed. 

 
 the big guy said. 

 Langdon was stunned.
 
 The muscular man gave a wide grin. 
s got a guy 
with a ram
s the Egyptian god of fertility."
 Langdon was not familiar with the brand name, but he was glad to hear the prophylactic 
manufacturers had gotten their hieroglyphs right. "Well done. Amon is indeed represented as a man 
with a ram
horny.

 

 
 Langdon said. 
s counterpart was? The Egyptian goddess 
of fertility?"
 The question met with several seconds of silence.
 "It was Isis," Langdon told them, grabbing a grease pen. "So we have the male god, Amon." He 
wrote it down. "And the female goddess, Isis, whose ancient pictogram was once called L

 Langdon finished writing and stepped back from the projector.
 AMON L'ISA

 he asked.
 
 somebody gasped.
 Langdon nodded. 
s 
little secret, and the reason for Mona Lisa

 
 Sophie said, dropping suddenly to her knees, now only ten feet from 
the Mona Lisa. She pointed the black light tentatively to a spot on the parquet floor.
 At first Langdon saw nothing. Then, as he knelt beside her, he saw a tiny droplet of dried liquid 
that was luminescing. Ink? Suddenly he recalled what black lights were actually used for. Blood. 
His senses tingled. Sophie was right. Jacques Saunière had indeed paid a visit to the Mona Lisa 
before he died.
 
t have come here without a reason," Sophie whispered, standing up. "I know he left a 
message for me here." Quickly striding the final few steps to the Mona Lisa, she illuminated the 
floor directly in front of the painting. She waved the light back and forth across the bare parquet.
 "There

 At that moment, Langdon saw a faint purple glimmer on the protective glass before the Mona Lisa. 
Reaching down, he took Sophie's wrist and slowly moved the light up to the painting itself.
 They both froze.
 On the glass, six words glowed in purple, scrawled directly across the Mona Lisa's face.
 CHAPTER 27
 Seated at Saunière's desk, Lieutenant Collet pressed the phone to his ear in disbelief. Did I hear 
Fache correctly? 

 
 Fache replied. 

 



 Collet was speechless. What was Neveu thinking? Fache had proof that Sophie had interfered with 
a DCPJ sting operation? Sophie Neveu was not only going to be fired, she was also going to jail. 


 

 

 

 
ve got a Louvre security officer on the gate. Just as you requested."
 "Okay, Langdon must still be inside the Grand Gallery."
 "Inside? But what is he doing?"
 "Is the Louvre security guard armed?"
 "Yes, sir. He

 
 Fache commanded. 
t get my men back to the perimeter for a few minutes, 
and I don
 Fache paused. 
d better tell the guard 
Agent Neveu is probably in there with him."
 "Agent Neveu left, I thought."
 "Did you actually see her leave?"
 "No, sir, but—"
 "Well, nobody on the perimeter saw her leave either. They only saw her go in."
 Collet was flabbergasted by Sophie Neveu
s still inside the building?
 "Handle it," Fache ordered. "I want Langdon and Neveu at gunpoint by the time I get back."
 As the Trailor truck drove off, Captain Fache rounded up his men. Robert Langdon had proven an 
elusive quarry tonight, and with Agent Neveu now helping him, he might be far harder to corner 
than expected.
Fache decided not to take any chances.
 Hedging his bets, he ordered half of his men back to the Louvre perimeter. The other half he sent to 
guard the only location in Paris where Robert Langdon could find safe harbor.
 CHAPTER 28
 Inside the Salle des Etats, Langdon stared in astonishment at the six words glowing on the 
Plexiglas. The text seemed to hover in space, casting a jagged shadow across Mona Lisa
The Priory,
This proves your grandfather was a member!
You understand this?
It's flawless,
It's a proclamation of one of the 
Priory's most fundamental philosophies!
s face.
 SO DARK THE CON OF MAN
 "Sophie," Langdon said, "the Priory
conned

 Sophie remained silent, staring at the words.
 

 Sophie's expression remained uncertain. 

 Langdon understood her meaning. She thinks this is another code. Whether a hidden meaning 
existed here or not, Langdon could not immediately say. His mind was still grappling with the bold 
clarity of Saunière's outward message.
So dark the con of man, he thought. So dark indeed.
 Nobody could deny the enormous good the modern Church did in today's troubled world, and yet 
the Church had a deceitful and violent history. Their brutal crusade to 
 the pagan and 
feminine-worshipping religions spanned three centuries, employing methods as inspired as they 
were horrific.
 The Catholic Inquisition published the book that arguably could be called the most blood-soaked 
publication in human history. Malleus Maleficarum—or The Witches' Hammer—indoctrinated the 
world to 
 and instructed the clergy how to locate, torture, and 
destroy them. Those deemed 
 by the Church included all female scholars, priestesses, 
gypsies, mystics, nature lovers, herb gatherers, and any women 
 Midwives also were killed for their heretical practice of using medical knowledge to ease 
the pain of childbirth—a suffering, the Church claimed, that was God's rightful punishment for 
Eve's partaking of the Apple of Knowledge, thus giving birth to the idea of Original Sin. During 
three hundred years of witch hunts, the Church burned at the stake an astounding five million 
women.
 The propaganda and bloodshed had worked.
 Today's world was living proof.
 Women, once celebrated as an essential half of spiritual enlightenment, had been banished from the 
temples of the world. There were no female Orthodox rabbis, Catholic priests, nor Islamic clerics. 
The once hallowed act of Hieros Gamos—the natural sexual union between man and woman 
through which each became spiritually whole—had been recast as a shameful act. Holy men who 
had once required sexual union with their female counterparts to commune with God now feared 
their natural sexual urges as the work of the devil, collaborating with his favorite accomplice... 
woman.
 Not even the feminine association with the left-hand side could escape the Church's defamation. In 
France and Italy, the words for 
—gauche and sinistra—came to have deeply negative 
overtones, while their right-hand counterparts rang of righteousness, dexterity, and correctness. To 
this day, radical thought was considered left wing, irrational thought was left brain, and anything 
evil, sinister.
 The days of the goddess were over. The pendulum had swung. Mother Earth had become a man's 
world, and the gods of destruction and war were taking their toll. The male ego had spent two 
millennia running unchecked by its female counterpart. The Priory of Sion believed that it was this 
obliteration of the sacred feminine in modern life that had caused what the Hopi Native Americans 
called koyanisquatsi—
—an unstable situation marked by testosterone-fueled 
wars, a plethora of misogynistic societies, and a growing disrespect for Mother Earth.

 Sophie said, her whisper yanking him back. 
s coming!"
 He heard the approaching footsteps out in the hallway.
 "Over here!" Sophie extinguished the black light and seemed to evaporate before Langdon
s silhouette 
racing toward the center of the room and ducking out of sight behind the octagonal viewing bench. 
He was about to dash after her when a booming voice stopped him cold.
 "Arrêtez!" a man commanded from the doorway.
 The Louvre security agent advanced through the entrance to the Salle des Etats, his pistol 
outstretched, taking deadly aim at Langdon
Couchez-vous!
Lie down!
Mauvaise idée, Monsieur Langdon,
s back. 
"Mauvaise idée."
 Face down on the parquet floor with his arms and legs spread wide, Langdon found little humor in 
the irony of his position. The Vitruvian Man, he thought. Face down.
 CHAPTER 29
 Inside Saint-Sulpice, Silas carried the heavy iron votive candle holder from the altar back toward 
the obelisk. The shaft would do nicely as a battering ram. Eyeing the gray marble panel that 
covered the apparent hollow in the floor, he realized he could not possibly shatter the covering 
without making considerable noise.
 Iron on marble. It would echo off the vaulted ceilings.
 Would the nun hear him? She should be asleep by now. Even so, it was a chance Silas preferred 
not to take. Looking around for a cloth to wrap around the tip of the iron pole, he saw nothing 
except the altar
t help but smile. 
There atop the main altar, propped open on a gilded book stand, sat an enormous leather-bound 
Bible.
 Up in the balcony, Sister Sandrine was shaking. Moments ago, she had been about to flee and carry 
out her orders, when the man below suddenly removed his cloak. When she saw his alabaster-white 
flesh, she was overcome with a horrified bewilderment. His broad, pale back was soaked with 
blood-red slashes. Even from here she could see the wounds were fresh.
 This man has been mercilessly whipped!
 She also saw the bloody cilice around his thigh, the wound beneath it dripping. What kind of God 
would want a body punished this way? The rituals of Opus Dei, Sister Sandrine knew, were not 
something she would ever understand. But that was hardly her concern at this instant. Opus Dei is 
searching for the keystone. How they knew of it, Sister Sandrine could not imagine, although she 
knew she did not have time to think.
 The bloody monk was now quietly donning his cloak again, clutching his prize as he moved toward 
the altar, toward the Bible.
 In breathless silence, Sister Sandrine left the balcony and raced down the hall to her quarters. 
Getting on her hands and knees, she reached beneath her wooden bed frame and retrieved the 
sealed envelope she had hidden there years ago.
 Tearing it open, she found four Paris phone numbers.
 Trembling, she began to dial.
 Downstairs, Silas laid the stone tablet on the altar and turned his eager hands to the leather Bible. 
His long white fingers were sweating now as he turned the pages. Flipping through the Old 
Testament, he found the Book of Job. He located chapter thirty-eight. As he ran his finger down the 
column of text, he anticipated the words he was about to read.
 They will lead the way!
 Finding verse number eleven, Silas read the text. It was only seven words. Confused, he read it 
again, sensing something had gone terribly wrong. The verse simply read:
 HITHERTO SHALT THOU COME, BUT NO FURTHER.
 CHAPTER 30
 Security warden Claude Grouard simmered with rage as he stood over his prostrate captive in front 
of the Mona Lisa. This bastard killed Jacques Saunière! Saunière had been like a well-loved father 
to Grouard and his security team.
Grouard wanted nothing more than to pull the trigger and bury a bullet in Robert Langdon
 
communications. I have to move to the doorway. Still aiming his weapon at Langdon, Grouard 
began backing slowly toward the entrance. On his third step, he spied something that made him 
stop short.
 What the hell is that!
 An inexplicable mirage was materializing near the center of the room. A silhouette. There was 
someone else in the room? A woman was moving through the darkness, walking briskly toward the 
far left wall. In front of her, a purplish beam of light swung back and forth across the floor, as if 
she were searching for something with a colored flashlight.
 "Qui est là?" Grouard demanded, feeling his adrenaline spike for a second time in the last thirty 
seconds. He suddenly didn
PTS,
Votre nom!
Répondez!
C'est mot,
Sophie Neveu.
s mind, the name registered. Sophie Neveu? That 
was the name of Saunière
t it? She used to come in here as a little kid, but 
that was years ago. This couldn
You know me,
And Robert Langdon did not kill my grandfather. Believe 
me.
s intentions correctly.
 What else could he possibly intend?
 The masterpiece she was examining was a five-foot-tall canvas. The bizarre scene Da Vinci had 
painted included an awkwardly posed Virgin Mary sitting with Baby Jesus, John the Baptist, and 
the Angel Uriel on a perilous outcropping of rocks. When Sophie was a little girl, no trip to the 
Mona Lisa had been complete without her grandfather dragging her across the room to see this 
second painting.
 Grand-père, I
t see it!
 Behind her, Sophie could hear the guard trying to radio again for help.
 Think!
 She pictured the message scrawled on the protective glass of the Mona Lisa. So dark the con of 
man. The painting before her had no protective glass on which to write a message, and Sophie 
knew her grandfather would never have defaced this masterpiece by writing on the painting itself. 
She paused. At least not on the front. Her eyes shot upward, climbing the long cables that dangled 
from the ceiling to support the canvas.
 Could that be it? Grabbing the left side of the carved wood frame, she pulled it toward her. The 
painting was large and the backing flexed as she swung it away from the wall. Sophie slipped her 
head and shoulders in behind the painting and raised the black light to inspect the back.
It took only seconds to realize her instinct had been wrong. The back of the painting was pale and 
blank. There was no purple text here, only the mottled brown backside of aging canvas and—
 Wait.
 Sophie
s wooden armature. The object was small, partially wedged in the slit where the canvas met 
the frame. A shimmering gold chain dangled off it.
 To Sophie
s word game had been this key. Her 
grandfather had it with him when he was killed. Not wanting it to fall into the hands of the police, 
he hid it behind this painting. Then he devised an ingenious treasure hunt to ensure only Sophie 
would find it.
 "Au secours!" the guard
Au secours!
t transmit, Sophie realized, recalling that tourists with cell phones often got frustrated in 
here when they tried to call home to brag about seeing the Mona Lisa. The extra surveillance 
wiring in the walls made it virtually impossible to get a carrier unless you stepped out into the hall. 
The guard was backing quickly toward the exit now, and Sophie knew she had to act immediately.
 Gazing up at the large painting behind which she was partially ensconced, Sophie realized that 
Leonardo da Vinci, for the second time tonight, was there to help.
 Another few meters, Grouard told himself, keeping his gun leveled.
"Arrêtez! Ou je la détruis!" the woman
Mon dieu, non!
s first thought was to wonder why the painting
t set off alarms, but 
of course the artwork cable sensors had yet to be reset tonight. What is she doing!
 When he saw it, his blood went cold.
 The canvas started to bulge in the middle, the fragile outlines of the Virgin Mary, Baby Jesus, and 
John the Baptist beginning to distort.
 "Non!" Grouard screamed, frozen in horror as he watched the priceless Da Vinci stretching. The 
woman was pushing her knee into the center of the canvas from behind! "NON!"
 Grouard wheeled and aimed his gun at her but instantly realized it was an empty threat. The canvas 
was only fabric, but it was utterly impenetrable—a six-million-dollar piece of body armor.
 I can
Set down your gun and radio,
or I'll put my knee through this 
painting. I think you know how my grandfather would feel about that.
Please... no. That's Madonna of the Rocks!
Thank you,
Now do exactly as I tell you, and everything will work out fine.
s pulse was still thundering as he ran beside Sophie down the emergency 
stairwell toward the ground level. Neither of them had said a word since leaving the trembling 
Louvre guard lying in the Salle des Etats. The guard
s 
hands, and he couldn
s adventure. The Da 
Vinci she had grabbed, much like the Mona Lisa, was notorious among art historians for its 
plethora of hidden pagan symbolism.
"You chose a valuable hostage," he said as they ran.
 "Madonna of the Rocks," she replied. "But I didn

 Langdon shot her a startled look. 

 
 She flashed a triumphant smile. 
t about to miss the third."
 CHAPTER 31
 "They
 Sister Sandrine stammered into the telephone in her Saint-Sulpice residence. She 
was leaving a message on an answering machine. 
re all dead!"
 The first three phone numbers on the list had produced terrifying results—a hysterical widow, a 
detective working late at a murder scene, and a somber priest consoling a bereaved family. All 
three contacts were dead. And now, as she called the fourth and final number—the number she was 
not supposed to call unless the first three could not be reached—she got an answering machine. 
The outgoing message offered no name but simply asked the caller to leave a message.
 "The floor panel has been broken!" she pleaded as she left the message. "The other three are dead!"
 Sister Sandrine did not know the identities of the four men she protected, but the private phone 
numbers stashed beneath her bed were for use on only one condition.
 If that floor panel is ever broken, the faceless messenger had told her, it means the upper echelon 
has been breached. One of us has been mortally threatened and been forced to tell a desperate lie. 
Call the numbers. Warn the others. Do not fail us in this.
 It was a silent alarm. Foolproof in its simplicity. The plan had amazed her when she first heard it. If 
the identity of one brother was compromised, he could tell a lie that would start in motion a 
mechanism to warn the others. Tonight, however, it seemed that more than one had been 
compromised.
 "Please answer," she whispered in fear. "Where are you?"
 "Hang up the phone," a deep voice said from the doorway.
 Turning in terror, she saw the massive monk. He was clutching the heavy iron candle stand. 
Shaking, she set the phone back in the cradle.
 "They are dead," the monk said. "All four of them. And they have played me for a fool. Tell me 
where the keystone is."
 "I don
 Sister Sandrine said truthfully. 
 Others who are 
dead!
 The man advanced, his white fists gripping the iron stand. 

 
 Sister Sandrine said defiantly. 

 A sudden explosion of rage erupted behind the monk's eyes. He lunged, lashing out with the candle 
stand like a club. As Sister Sandrine fell, her last feeling was an overwhelming sense of 
foreboding.
 All four are dead.
 The precious truth is lost forever.
 CHAPTER 32
 The security alarm on the west end of the Denon Wing sent the pigeons in the nearby Tuileries 
Gardens scattering as Langdon and Sophie dashed out of the bulkhead into the Paris night. As they 
ran across the plaza to Sophie's car, Langdon could hear police sirens wailing in the distance.
 
s it there," Sophie called, pointing to a red snub-nosed two-seater parked on the plaza.
 She
SmartCar,
A hundred kilometers to the liter.
s perimeter hedge, and bisecting the large circle of grass in the center.
"No!" Langdon shouted, knowing the hedges around Carrousel du Louvre were there to hide the 
perilous chasm in the center—La Pyramide Inversée—the upside-down pyramid skylight he had 
seen earlier from inside the museum. It was large enough to swallow their Smart-Car in a single 
gulp. Fortunately, Sophie decided on the more conventional route, jamming the wheel hard to the 
right, circling properly until she exited, cut left, and swung into the northbound lane, accelerating 
toward Rue de Rivoli.
 The two-tone police sirens blared louder behind them, and Langdon could see the lights now in his 
side view mirror. The SmartCar engine whined in protest as Sophie urged it faster away from the 
Louvre. Fifty yards ahead, the traffic light at Rivoli turned red. Sophie cursed under her breath and 
kept racing toward it. Langdon felt his muscles tighten.
 "Sophie?"
 Slowing only slightly as they reached the intersection, Sophie flicked her headlights and stole a 
quick glance both ways before flooring the accelerator again and carving a sharp left turn through 
the empty intersection onto Rivoli. Accelerating west for a quarter of a mile, Sophie banked to the 
right around a wide rotary. Soon they were shooting out the other side onto the wide avenue of 
Champs-Elysées.
 As they straightened out, Langdon turned in his seat, craning his neck to look out the rear window 
toward the Louvre. The police did not seem to be chasing them. The sea of blue lights was 
assembling at the museum.
 His heartbeat finally slowing, Langdon turned back around. "That was interesting."
 Sophie didn
s quick thinking had been impressive. Madonna of the Rocks.
 Sophie had said her grandfather left her something behind the painting. A final message? Langdon 
could not help but marvel over Saunière
s chain of interconnected symbolism. Saunière, it seemed, at 
every turn, was reinforcing his fondness for the dark and mischievous side of Leonardo da Vinci.
 Da Vinci
s talons, gripping an invisible head. Finally, the most 
obvious and frightening image: Just below Mary
s claw-like 
hand.
 Langdon
watered-down
s National Gallery under the name Virgin of the Rocks, although Langdon still preferred 
the Louvre
The painting. What was behind it?
I'll show you once we're safely inside the embassy.
You'll show it to me?
He left you a physical object?
Embossed with a fleur-de-lis and the initials P.S.
t believe his ears.
 We
s wheel to the right, cutting 
sharply past the luxurious Hôtel de Crillon into Paris
s mind remained locked on the key in her pocket, her memories of 
seeing it many years ago, the gold head shaped as an equal-armed cross, the triangular shaft, the 
indentations, the embossed flowery seal, and the letters P.S.
 Although the key barely had entered Sophie
s peculiar tooling no 
longer looked so mystifying. A laser-tooled varying matrix. Impossible to duplicate. Rather than 
teeth that moved tumblers, this key
s embossed seal without ever seeing it. The 
cruciform on top implied the key belonged to some kind of Christian organization, and yet Sophie 
knew of no churches that used laser-tooled varying matrix keys.
 Besides, my grandfather was no Christian....
 Sophie had witnessed proof of that ten years ago. Ironically, it had been another key—a far more 
normal one—that had revealed his true nature to her.
 The afternoon had been warm when she landed at Charles de Gaulle Airport and hailed a taxi 
home. Grand-père will be so surprised to see me, she thought. Returning from graduate school in 
Britain for spring break a few days early, Sophie couldn
s Saturday 
afternoon, she realized. He seldom worked on weekends. On weekends, he usually—
 Grinning, Sophie ran out to the garage. Sure enough, his car was gone. It was the weekend. Jacques 
Saunière despised city driving and owned a car for one destination only—his vacation château in 
Normandy, north of Paris. Sophie, after months in the congestion of London, was eager for the 
smells of nature and to start her vacation right away. It was still early evening, and she decided to 
leave immediately and surprise him. Borrowing a friend
clock, turning down the long 
private driveway toward her grandfather
s most 
influential people were in attendance.
 Eager to surprise him, she hurried to the front door. When she got there, though, she found it 
locked. She knocked. Nobody answered. Puzzled, she walked around and tried the back door. It too 
was locked. No answer.
Confused, she stood a moment and listened. The only sound she heard was the cool Normandy air 
letting out a low moan as it swirled through the valley.
 No music.
 No voices.
 Nothing.
 In the silence of the woods, Sophie hurried to the side of the house and clambered up on a 
woodpile, pressing her face to the living room window. What she saw inside made no sense at all.
 "Nobody

 The entire first floor looked deserted.
 Where are all the people?
 Heart racing, Sophie ran to the woodshed and got the spare key her grandfather kept hidden under 
the kindling box. She ran to the front door and let herself in. As she stepped into the deserted foyer, 
the control panel for the security system started blinking red—a warning that the entrant had ten 
seconds to type the proper code before the security alarms went off.
 He has the alarm on during a party?
 Sophie quickly typed the code and deactivated the system.
 Entering, she found the entire house uninhabited. Upstairs too. As she descended again to the 
deserted living room, she stood a moment in the silence, wondering what could possibly be 
happening.
 It was then that Sophie heard it.
 Muffled voices. And they seemed to be coming from underneath her. Sophie could not imagine. 
Crouching, she put her ear to the floor and listened. Yes, the sound was definitely coming from 
below. The voices seemed to be singing, or... chanting? She was frightened. Almost more eerie 
than the sound itself was the realization that this house did not even have a basement.
 At least none I've ever seen.
 Turning now and scanning the living room, Sophie's eyes fell to the only object in the entire house 
that seemed out of place—her grandfather's favorite antique, a sprawling Aubusson tapestry. It 
usually hung on the east wall beside the fireplace, but tonight it had been pulled aside on its brass 
rod, exposing the wall behind it.
 Walking toward the bare wooden wall, Sophie sensed the chanting getting louder. Hesitant, she 
leaned her ear against the wood. The voices were clearer now. People were definitely chanting... 
intoning words Sophie could not discern.
 The space behind this wall is hollow!
 Feeling around the edge of the panels, Sophie found a recessed fingerhold. It was discreetly 
crafted. A sliding door. Heart pounding, she placed her finger in the slot and pulled it. With 
noiseless precision, the heavy wall slid sideways. From out of the darkness beyond, the voices 
echoed up.
 Sophie slipped through the door and found herself on a rough-hewn stone staircase that spiraled 
downward. She'd been coming to this house since she was a child and yet had no idea this staircase 
even existed!
 As she descended, the air grew cooler. The voices clearer. She heard men and women now. Her 
line of sight was limited by the spiral of the staircase, but the last step was now rounding into view. 
Beyond it, she could see a small patch of the basement floor—stone, illuminated by the flickering 
orange blaze of firelight.
 Holding her breath, Sophie inched down another few steps and crouched down to look. It took her 
several seconds to process what she was seeing.
 The room was a grotto—a coarse chamber that appeared to have been hollowed from the granite of 
the hillside. The only light came from torches on the walls. In the glow of the flames, thirty or so 
people stood in a circle in the center of the room.
 I'm dreaming, Sophie told herself. A dream. What else could this be?
 Everyone in the room was wearing a mask. The women were dressed in white gossamer gowns and 
golden shoes. Their masks were white, and in their hands they carried golden orbs. The men wore 
long black tunics, and their masks were black. They looked like pieces in a giant chess set. 
Everyone in the circle rocked back and forth and chanted in reverence to something on the floor 
before them... something Sophie could not see.
 The chanting grew steady again. Accelerating. Thundering now. Faster. The participants took a 
step inward and knelt. In that instant, Sophie could finally see what they all were witnessing. Even 
as she staggered back in horror, she felt the image searing itself into her memory forever. 
Overtaken by nausea, Sophie spun, clutching at the stone walls as she clambered back up the stairs. 
Pulling the door closed, she fled the deserted house, and drove in a tearful stupor back to Paris.
That night, with her life shattered by disillusionment and betrayal, she packed her belongings and 
left her home. On the dining room table, she left a note.
 I WAS THERE. DON'T TRY TO FIND ME.
 Beside the note, she laid the old spare key from the château's woodshed.
 
s voice intruded. "Stop! Stop!"
 Emerging from the memory, Sophie slammed on the brakes, skidding to a halt. "What? What 
happened?!"
 Langdon pointed down the long street before them.
 When she saw it, Sophie
ve sealed off Avenue 
Gabriel!
 Langdon gave a grim sigh. "I take it the embassy is off-limits this evening?"
 Down the street, the two DCPJ officers who stood beside their cars were now staring in their 
direction, apparently curious about the headlights that had halted so abruptly up the street from 
them.
 Okay, Sophie, turn around very slowly.
 Putting the SmartCar in reverse, she performed a composed three-point turn and reversed her 
direction. As she drove away, she heard the sound of squealing tires behind them. Sirens blared to 
life.
 Cursing, Sophie slammed down the accelerator.
 CHAPTER 33
 Sophie
t, he reminded himself. 
Sophie had made the decision for him when she threw the GPS dot out the bathroom window. 
Now, as they sped away from the embassy, serpentining through sparse traffic on Champs-Elysées, 
Langdon felt his options deteriorating. Although Sophie seemed to have lost the police, at least for 
the moment, Langdon doubted their luck would hold for long.
 Behind the wheel Sophie was fishing in her sweater pocket. She removed a small metal object and 
held it out for him. "Robert, you

 Feeling a shiver of anticipation, Langdon took the object and examined it. It was heavy and shaped 
like a cruciform. His first instinct was that he was holding a funeral pieu—a miniature version of a 
memorial spike designed to be stuck into the ground at a gravesite. But then he noted the shaft 
protruding from the cruciform was prismatic and triangular. The shaft was also pockmarked with 
hundreds of tiny hexagons that appeared to be finely tooled and scattered at random.
 
s a laser-cut key," Sophie told him. "Those hexagons are read by an electric eye."
 A key? Langdon had never seen anything like it.
 "Look at the other side," she said, changing lanes and sailing through an intersection.
 When Langdon turned the key, he felt his jaw drop. There, intricately embossed on the center of 
the cross, was a stylized fleur-de-lis with the initials P.S.! "Sophie," he said, "this is the seal I told 
you about! The official device of the Priory of Sion."
 She nodded. "As I told you, I saw the key a long time ago. He told me never to speak of it again."
 Langdon
He told me the key opened a box where he kept many secrets.
Do you know what it opens?
I was hoping you knew.
It looks Christian,
the crucifix
s violent history was reflected in its very name: "cross" and "crucifix" came from the 
Latin verb cruciare—to torture.
 "Sophie," he said, "all I can tell you is that equal-armed crosses like this one are considered 
peaceful crosses. Their square configurations make them impractical for use in crucifixion, and 
their balanced vertical and horizontal elements convey a natural union of male and female, making 
them symbolically consistent with Priory philosophy."
 She gave him a weary look. "You have no idea, do you?"
 Langdon frowned. "Not a clue."
 "Okay, we have to get off the road." Sophie checked her rearview mirror. "We need a safe place to 
figure out what that key opens."
 Langdon thought longingly of his comfortable room at the Ritz. Obviously, that was not an option. 
"How about my hosts at the American University of Paris?"
 "Too obvious. Fache will check with them."
 "You must know people. You live here."
 "Fache will run my phone and e-mail records, talk to my coworkers. My contacts are 
compromised, and finding a hotel is no good because they all require identification."
 Langdon wondered again if he might have been better off taking his chances letting Fache arrest 
him at the Louvre. "Let

 
 Sophie turned and stared at him as if he were crazy. 
re dreaming. Your 
embassy has no jurisdiction except on their own property. Sending someone to retrieve us would be 
considered aiding a fugitive of the French government. It won
s one thing, but asking them to take action against 
French law enforcement in the field?" She shook her head. "Call your embassy right now, and they 
are going to tell you to avoid further damage and turn yourself over to Fache. Then they
 She gazed up the line of elegant storefronts on 
Champs-Elysées. 

 Langdon checked his wallet. 

 

 

 As Sophie accelerated, Langdon sensed she was formulating a plan. Dead ahead, at the end of 
Champs-Elysées, stood the Arc de Triomphe—Napoleon's 164-foot-tall tribute to his own military 
potency—encircled by France's largest rotary, a nine-lane behemoth.
 Sophie's eyes were on the rearview mirror again as they approached the rotary. 
 she said, 
t last another five minutes if we stay in this car."
 So steal a different one, Langdon mused, now that we
What are you going to do?
Trust me.
s-edition Mickey Mouse wristwatch that 
had been a gift from his parents on his tenth birthday. Although its juvenile dial often drew odd 
looks, Langdon had never owned any other watch; Disney animations had been his first 
introduction to the magic of form and color, and Mickey now served as Langdon
s arms were skewed at an awkward angle, 
indicating an equally awkward hour.
 2:51 A.M.
 "Interesting watch," Sophie said, glancing at his wrist and maneuvering the SmartCar around the 
wide, counterclockwise rotary.
 "Long story," he said, pulling his sleeve back down.
 "I imagine it would have to be." She gave him a quick smile and exited the rotary, heading due 
north, away from the city center. Barely making two green lights, she reached the third intersection 
and took a hard right onto Boulevard Malesherbes. They
s bewilderment, sped off without them.
 "What happened?" Langdon demanded, joining Sophie on the curb as the taxi disappeared.
 Sophie was already heading for the train station entrance. "Come on. We

 Langdon hurried along beside her. What had begun as a one-mile dash to the U.S. Embassy had 
now become a full-fledged evacuation from Paris. Langdon was liking this idea less and less.
 CHAPTER 34
 The driver who collected Bishop Aringarosa from Leonardo da Vinci International Airport pulled 
up in a small, unimpressive black Fiat sedan. Aringarosa recalled a day when all Vatican transports 
were big luxury cars that sported grille-plate medallions and flags emblazoned with the seal of the 
Holy See. Those days are gone. Vatican cars were now less ostentatious and almost always 
unmarked. The Vatican claimed this was to cut costs to better serve their dioceses, but Aringarosa 
suspected it was more of a security measure. The world had gone mad, and in many parts of 
Europe, advertising your love of Jesus Christ was like painting a bull's-eye on the roof of your car.
 Bundling his black cassock around himself, Aringarosa climbed into the back seat and settled in for 
the long drive to Castel Gandolfo. It would be the same ride he had taken five months ago.
 Last year's trip to Rome, he sighed. The longest night of my life.
 Five months ago, the Vatican had phoned to request Aringarosa's immediate presence in Rome. 
They offered no explanation. Your tickets are at the airport. The Holy See worked hard to retain a 
veil of mystery, even for its highest clergy.
 The mysterious summons, Aringarosa suspected, was probably a photo opportunity for the Pope 
and other Vatican officials to piggyback on Opus Dei's recent public success—the completion of 
their World Headquarters in New York City. Architectural Digest had called Opus Dei's building 

 and lately the 
Vatican seemed to be drawn to anything and everything that included the word 

 Aringarosa had no choice but to accept the invitation, albeit reluctantly. Not a fan of the current 
papal administration, Aringarosa, like most conservative clergy, had watched with grave concern 
as the new Pope settled into his first year in office. An unprecedented liberal, His Holiness had 
secured the papacy through one of the most controversial and unusual conclaves in Vatican history. 
Now, rather than being humbled by his unexpected rise to power, the Holy Father had wasted no 
time flexing all the muscle associated with the highest office in Christendom. Drawing on an 
unsettling tide of liberal support within the College of Cardinals, the Pope was now declaring his 
papal mission to be 

 The translation, Aringarosa feared, was that the man was actually arrogant enough to think he 
could rewrite God's laws and win back the hearts of those who felt the demands of true Catholicism 
had become too inconvenient in a modern world.
 Aringarosa had been using all of his political sway—substantial considering the size of the Opus 
Dei constituency and their bankroll—to persuade the Pope and his advisers that softening the 
Church's laws was not only faithless and cowardly, but political suicide. He reminded them that 
previous tempering of Church law—the Vatican II fiasco—had left a devastating legacy: Church 
attendance was now lower than ever, donations were drying up, and there were not even enough 
Catholic priests to preside over their churches.
 People need structure and direction from the Church, Aringarosa insisted, not coddling and 
indulgence!
 On that night, months ago, as the Fiat had left the airport, Aringarosa was surprised to find himself 
heading not toward Vatican City but rather eastward up a sinuous mountain road. 
 he had demanded of his driver.
 
 the man replied. 

 The Pope's summer residence? Aringarosa had never been, nor had he ever desired to see it. In 
addition to being the Pope's summer vacation home, the sixteenth-century citadel housed the 
Specula Vaticana—the Vatican Observatory—one of the most advanced astronomical 
observatories in Europe. Aringarosa had never been comfortable with the Vatican's historical need 
to dabble in science. What was the rationale for fusing science and faith? Unbiased science could 
not possibly be performed by a man who possessed faith in God. Nor did faith have any need for 
physical confirmation of its beliefs.
Nonetheless, there it is, he thought as Castel Gandolfo came into view, rising against a star-filled 
November sky. From the access road, Gandolfo resembled a great stone monster pondering a 
suicidal leap. Perched at the very edge of a cliff, the castle leaned out over the cradle of Italian 
civilization—the valley where the Curiazi and Orazi clans fought long before the founding of 
Rome.
 Even in silhouette, Gandolfo was a sight to behold—an impressive example of tiered, defensive 
architecture, echoing the potency of this dramatic cliffside setting. Sadly, Aringarosa now saw, the 
Vatican had ruined the building by constructing two huge aluminum telescope domes atop the roof, 
leaving this once dignified edifice looking like a proud warrior wearing a couple of party hats.
 When Aringarosa got out of the car, a young Jesuit priest hurried out and greeted him. 

 Good for you. Aringarosa grumbled his hello and followed his host into the castle's foyer—a wide
open space whose decor was a graceless blend of Renaissance art and astronomy images. 
Following his escort up the wide travertine marble staircase, Aringarosa saw signs for conference 
centers, science lecture halls, and tourist information services. It amazed him to think the Vatican 
was failing at every turn to provide coherent, stringent guidelines for spiritual growth and yet 
somehow still found time to give astrophysics lectures to tourists.
 
 Aringarosa said to the young priest, 

 The priest gave him an odd look. 

 Aringarosa waved it off, deciding not to launch into that particular offensive again this evening. 
The Vatican has gone mad. Like a lazy parent who found it easier to acquiesce to the whims of a 
spoiled child than to stand firm and teach values, the Church just kept softening at every turn, 
trying to reinvent itself to accommodate a culture gone astray.
 The top floor's corridor was wide, lushly appointed, and led in only one direction—toward a huge 
set of oak doors with a brass sign.
 BIBLIOTECA ASTRONOMICA
 Aringarosa had heard of this place—the Vatican's Astronomy Library—rumored to contain more 
than twenty-five thousand volumes, including rare works of Copernicus, Galileo, Kepler, Newton, 
and Secchi. Allegedly, it was also the place in which the Pope's highest officers held private 
meetings... those meetings they preferred not to hold within the walls of Vatican City.
 Approaching the door, Bishop Aringarosa would never have imagined the shocking news he was 
about to receive inside, or the deadly chain of events it would put into motion. It was not until an 
hour later, as he staggered from the meeting, that the devastating implications settled in. Six months 
from now! he had thought. God help us!
 Now, seated in the Fiat, Bishop Aringarosa realized his fists were clenched just thinking about that 
first meeting. He released his grip and forced a slow inhalation, relaxing his muscles.
 Everything will be fine, he told himself as the Fiat wound higher into the mountains. Still, he 
wished his cell phone would ring. Why hasn't the Teacher called me? Silas should have the 
keystone by now.
 Trying to ease his nerves, the bishop meditated on the purple amethyst in his ring. Feeling the 
textures of the mitre-crozier appliqué and the facets of the diamonds, he reminded himself that this 
ring was a symbol of power far less than that which he would soon attain.
 CHAPTER 35
 The inside of Gare Saint-Lazare looked like every other train station in Europe, a gaping indoor
outdoor cavern dotted with the usual suspects—homeless men holding cardboard signs, collections 
of bleary-eyed college kids sleeping on backpacks and zoning out to their portable MP3 players, 
and clusters of blue-clad baggage porters smoking cigarettes.
 Sophie raised her eyes to the enormous departure board overhead. The black and white tabs 
reshuffled, ruffling downward as the information refreshed. When the update was finished, 
Langdon eyed the offerings. The topmost listing read: LYON—RAPIDE—3:06
 
 Sophie said, 
 Sooner? Langdon checked his 
watch 2:59 A.M. The train left in seven minutes and they didn't even have tickets yet.
 Sophie guided Langdon toward the ticket window and said, 

 

 

 Langdon decided to stop trying to keep ahead of Sophie Neveu. Using his Visa card, he purchased 
two coach tickets to Lyon and handed them to Sophie.
 Sophie guided him out toward the tracks, where a familiar tone chimed overhead and a P.A. 
announcer gave the final boarding call for Lyon. Sixteen separate tracks spread out before them. In 
the distance to the right, at quay three, the train to Lyon was belching and wheezing in preparation 
for departure, but Sophie already had her arm through Langdon's and was guiding him in the exact 
opposite direction. They hurried through a side lobby, past an all-night cafe, and finally out a side 
door onto a quiet street on the west side of the station.
 A lone taxi sat idling by the doorway.
 The driver saw Sophie and flicked his lights.
 Sophie jumped in the back seat. Langdon got in after her.
 As the taxi pulled away from station, Sophie took out their newly purchased train tickets and tore 
them up.
 Langdon sighed. Seventy dollars well spent.
 It was not until their taxi had settled into a monotonous northbound hum on Rue de Clichy that 
Langdon felt they'd actually escaped. Out the window to his right, he could see Montmartre and the 
beautiful dome of Sacré-Coeur. The image was interrupted by the flash of police lights sailing past 
them in the opposite direction.
 Langdon and Sophie ducked down as the sirens faded.
 Sophie had told the cab driver simply to head out of the city, and from her firmly set jaw, Langdon 
sensed she was trying to figure out their next move.
 Langdon examined the cruciform key again, holding it to the window, bringing it close to his eyes 
in an effort to find any markings on it that might indicate where the key had been made. In the 
intermittent glow of passing streetlights, he saw no markings except the Priory seal.
 
t make sense," he finally said.
 "Which part?"
 "That your grandfather would go to so much trouble to give you a key that you wouldn

 

 
t write anything else on the back of the painting?"
 "I searched the whole area. This is all there was. This key, wedged behind the painting. I saw the 
Priory seal, stuck the key in my pocket, then we left."
Langdon frowned, peering now at the blunt end of the triangular shaft. Nothing. Squinting, he 
brought the key close to his eyes and examined the rim of the head. Nothing there either. "I think 
this key was cleaned recently."
 "Why?"
 "It smells like rubbing alcohol."
 She turned. "I

 
 Langdon held the key to his nose and sniffed. 

s stronger on the other side." He flipped it over. "Yes, it
s been buffed 
with a cleaner or—" Langdon stopped.
 "What?"
 He angled the key to the light and looked at the smooth surface on the broad arm of the cross. It 
seemed to shimmer in places... like it was wet. "How well did you look at the back of this key 
before you put it in your pocket?"
 "What? Not well. I was in a hurry."
 Langdon turned to her. "Do you still have the black light?"
 Sophie reached in her pocket and produced the UV penlight. Langdon took it and switched it on, 
shining the beam on the back of the key.
 The back luminesced instantly. There was writing there. In penmanship that was hurried but 
legible.
 "Well," Langdon said, smiling. "I guess we know what the alcohol smell was."
 Sophie stared in amazement at the purple writing on the back of the key.
 24 Rue Haxo
 An address! My grandfather wrote down an address!
 "Where is this?" Langdon asked.
Sophie had no idea. Facing front again, she leaned forward and excitedly asked the driver, 
"Connaissez-vous la Rue Haxo?"
 The driver thought a moment and then nodded. He told Sophie it was out near the tennis stadium 
on the western outskirts of Paris. She asked him to take them there immediately.
 "Fastest route is through Bois de Boulogne," the driver told her in French. "Is that okay?"
 Sophie frowned. She could think of far less scandalous routes, but tonight she was not going to be 
picky. "Oui." We can shock the visiting American.
 Sophie looked back at the key and wondered what they would possibly find at 24 Rue Haxo. A 
church? Some kind of Priory headquarters?
 Her mind filled again with images of the secret ritual she had witnessed in the basement grotto ten 
years ago, and she heaved a long sigh. "Robert, I have a lot of things to tell you." She paused, 
locking eyes with him as the taxi raced westward. "But first I want you to tell me everything you 
know about this Priory of Sion."
 CHAPTER 36
 Outside the Salle des Etats, Bezu Fache was fuming as Louvre warden Grouard explained how 
Sophie and Langdon had disarmed him. Why didn
Captain?
Captain, 
I just heard. They located Agent Neveu's car.
Did she make the embassy?
No. Train station. Bought two tickets. Train just left.
What was the destination?
Lyon.
Probably a decoy.
Okay, alert the next station, have the train 
stopped and searched, just in case. Leave her car where it is and put plainclothes on watch in case 
they try to come back to it. Send men to search the streets around the station in case they fled on 
foot. Are buses running from the station?
Not at this hour, sir. Only the taxi queue.
Good. Question the drivers. See if they saw anything. Then contact the taxi company dispatcher 
with descriptions. I'm calling Interpol.
You're putting this on the wire?
Only Langdon, right?
You're not flagging Sophie Neveu. She's our own agent.
Of course I'm flagging her!
What good is flagging Langdon if she can do all his 
dirty work? I plan to run Neveu's employment file—friends, family, personal contacts—anyone she 
might turn to for help. I don't know what she thinks she's doing out there, but it's going to cost her 
one hell of a lot more than her job!
Do you want me on the phones or in the field?
Field. Get over to the train station and coordinate the team. You've got the reins, but don't make a 
move without talking to me.
Yes, sir.
t last till dawn.
 CHAPTER 37
 The heavily forested park known as the Bois de Boulogne was called many things, but the Parisian 
cognoscenti knew it as "the Garden of Earthly Delights." The epithet, despite sounding flattering, 
was quite to the contrary. Anyone who had seen the lurid Bosch painting of the same name 
understood the jab; the painting, like the forest, was dark and twisted, a purgatory for freaks and 
fetishists. At night, the forest
s deepest unspoken desires—male, female, and everything in 
between.
 As Langdon gathered his thoughts to tell Sophie about the Priory of Sion, their taxi passed through 
the wooded entrance to the park and began heading west on the cobblestone crossfare. Langdon 
was having trouble concentrating as a scattering of the park
Tell me about the Priory of Sion,
s history spanned more than a millennium... an 
astonishing chronicle of secrets, blackmail, betrayal, and even brutal torture at the hands of an 
angry Pope.
 "The Priory of Sion," he began, "was founded in Jerusalem in 1099 by a French king named 
Godefroi de Bouillon, immediately after he had conquered the city."
 Sophie nodded, her eyes riveted on him.
 "King Godefroi was allegedly the possessor of a powerful secret—a secret that had been in his 
family since the time of Christ. Fearing his secret might be lost when he died, he founded a secret 
brotherhood—the Priory of Sion—and charged them with protecting his secret by quietly passing it 
on from generation to generation. During their years in Jerusalem, the Priory learned of a stash of 
hidden documents buried beneath the ruins of Herod
s Temple. These documents, they believed, corroborated Godefroi
 Sophie 
looked uncertain.
 
 Langdon paused. 


 Sophie glanced up with a surprised look of recognition. Langdon had lectured often enough on the 
Knights Templar to know that almost everyone on earth had heard of them, at least abstractedly. 
For academics, the Templars' history was a precarious world where fact, lore, and misinformation 
had become so intertwined that extracting a pristine truth was almost impossible. Nowadays, 
Langdon hesitated even to mention the Knights Templar while lecturing because it invariably led to 
a barrage of convoluted inquiries into assorted conspiracy theories.
 Sophie already looked troubled. 
re saying the Knights Templar were founded by the Priory of 
Sion to retrieve a collection of secret documents? I thought the Templars were created to protect 
the Holy Land."
 "A common misconception. The idea of protection of pilgrims was the guise under which the 
Templars ran their mission. Their true goal in the Holy Land was to retrieve the documents from 
beneath the ruins of the temple."
 "And did they find them?"
 Langdon grinned. "Nobody knows for sure, but the one thing on which all academics agree is this: 
The Knights discovered something down there in the ruins... something that made them wealthy 
and powerful beyond anyone

 Langdon quickly gave Sophie the standard academic sketch of the accepted Knights Templar 
history, explaining how the Knights were in the Holy Land during the Second Crusade and told 
King Baldwin II that they were there to protect Christian pilgrims on the roadways. Although 
unpaid and sworn to poverty, the Knights told the king they required basic shelter and requested his 
permission to take up residence in the stables under the ruins of the temple. King Baldwin granted 
the soldiers' request, and the Knights took up their meager residence inside the devastated shrine.
 The odd choice of lodging, Langdon explained, had been anything but random. The Knights 
believed the documents the Priory sought were buried deep under the ruins—beneath the Holy of 
Holies, a sacred chamber where God Himself was believed to reside. Literally, the very center of 
the Jewish faith. For almost a decade, the nine Knights lived in the ruins, excavating in total 
secrecy through solid rock.
 Sophie looked over. 


 Langdon said, explaining how it had taken nine years, but the Knights had 
finally found what they had been searching for. They took the treasure from the temple and 
traveled to Europe, where their influence seemed to solidify overnight.
 Nobody was certain whether the Knights had blackmailed the Vatican or whether the Church 
simply tried to buy the Knights' silence, but Pope Innocent II immediately issued an unprecedented 
papal bull that afforded the Knights Templar limitless power and declared them 
—an autonomous army independent of all interference from kings and prelates, both 
religious and political.
 With their new carte blanche from the Vatican, the Knights Templar expanded at a staggering rate, 
both in numbers and political force, amassing vast estates in over a dozen countries. They began 
extending credit to bankrupt royals and charging interest in return, thereby establishing modern 
banking and broadening their wealth and influence still further.
 By the 1300s, the Vatican sanction had helped the Knights amass so much power that Pope 
Clement V decided that something had to be done. Working in concert with France's King Philippe 
IV, the Pope devised an ingeniously planned sting operation to quash the Templars and seize their 
treasure, thus taking control of the secrets held over the Vatican. In a military maneuver worthy of 
the CIA, Pope Clement issued secret sealed orders to be opened simultaneously by his soldiers all 
across Europe on Friday, October 13 of 1307.
 At dawn on the thirteenth, the documents were unsealed and their appalling contents revealed. 
Clement's letter claimed that God had visited him in a vision and warned him that the Knights 
Templar were heretics guilty of devil worship, homosexuality, defiling the cross, sodomy, and 
other blasphemous behavior. Pope Clement had been asked by God to cleanse the earth by 
rounding up all the Knights and torturing them until they confessed their crimes against God. 
Clement's Machiavellian operation came off with clockwork precision. On that day, countless 
Knights were captured, tortured mercilessly, and finally burned at the stake as heretics. Echoes of 
the tragedy still resonated in modern culture; to this day, Friday the thirteenth was considered 
unlucky.
 Sophie looked confused. 

 
s false charges and best efforts to eradicate 
them, the Knights had powerful allies, and some managed to escape the Vatican purges. The 
Templars
s true objective, but it slipped through his fingers. The documents had long since been 
entrusted to the Templars
s onslaught. As the Vatican closed in, the Priory smuggled 
their documents from a Paris preceptory by night onto Templar ships in La Rochelle."
"Where did the documents go?"
 Langdon shrugged. "That mystery

 Sophie looked uneasy.
 
 Langdon continued, 

 
blood

 Langdon nodded. Blood was the backbone of the Sangreal, and yet not in the way Sophie probably 
imagined. 

 

 Langdon took a deep breath and gazed out at the underbelly of Paris leering in the shadows. 

 He paused. 
ll realize you already 
know a lot about it. In fact, almost everyone on earth has heard the story of the Sangreal."
 Sophie looked skeptical. "I

 
 Langdon smiled. 
re just used to hearing it called by the name 
 "
 CHAPTER 38
 Sophie scrutinized Langdon in the back of the taxi. He
The Holy Grail?
Holy Grail is the literal meaning of Sangreal. The phrase 
derives from the French Sangraal, which evolved to Sangreal, and was eventually split into two 
words, San Greal.
s claim still made no sense to her. "I thought the Holy Grail was a cup. You just told me 
the Sangreal is a collection of documents that reveals some dark secret."
 "Yes, but the Sangreal documents are only half of the Holy Grail treasure. They are buried with the 
Grail itself... and reveal its true meaning. The documents gave the Knights Templar so much power 
because the pages revealed the true nature of the Grail."
 The true nature of the Grail? Sophie felt even more lost now. The Holy Grail, she had thought, was 
the cup that Jesus drank from at the Last Supper and with which Joseph of Arimathea later caught 
His blood at the crucifixion. "The Holy Grail is the Cup of Christ," she said. "How much simpler 
could it be?"
 "Sophie," Langdon whispered, leaning toward her now, "according to the Priory of Sion, the Holy 
Grail is not a cup at all. They claim the Grail legend—that of a chalice—is actually an ingeniously 
conceived allegory. That is, that the Grail story uses the chalice as a metaphor for something else, 
something far more powerful." He paused. "Something that fits perfectly with everything your 
grandfather has been trying to tell us tonight, including all his symbologic references to the sacred 
feminine."
 Still unsure, Sophie sensed in Langdon
But if the Holy Grail is not a cup,
what is it?
s face a 
few months ago after Langdon handed him a draft of the manuscript he was working on.
 "This manuscript claims what?" his editor had choked, setting down his wineglass and staring 
across his half-eaten power lunch. "You can

 

 Prominent New York editor Jonas Faukman tugged nervously at his goatee. Faukman no doubt had 
heard some wild book ideas in his illustrious career, but this one seemed to have left the man 
flabbergasted.
 
 Faukman finally said, 
t get me wrong. I love your work, and we
ll have people picketing outside my office for 
months. Besides, it will kill your reputation. You
s sake, not a pop 
schlockmeister looking for a quick buck. Where could you possibly find enough credible evidence 
to support a theory like this?"
With a quiet smile Langdon pulled a piece of paper from the pocket of his tweed coat and handed it 
to Faukman. The page listed a bibliography of over fifty titles—books by well-known historians, 
some contemporary, some centuries old—many of them academic bestsellers. All the book titles 
suggested the same premise Langdon had just proposed. As Faukman read down the list, he looked 
like a man who had just discovered the earth was actually flat. "I know some of these authors. 
They

 Langdon grinned. 
s been around for a long 
time. I
m finding to support the theory is, well, 
staggeringly persuasive."
 Faukman was still staring at the list. "My God, one of these books was written by Sir Leigh 
Teabing—a British Royal Historian."
 "Teabing has spent much of his life studying the Holy Grail. I
s a believer, Jonas, along with all of the others on that list."
 "You
 Faukman swallowed, apparently 
unable to say the words.
 Langdon grinned again. 
 Langdon grinned. 

 Faukman was still shaking his head. 
t this theory 
more widely known?"
 "These books can

 Faukman's eyes went wide. 
t tell me Harry Potter is actually about the Holy Grail."
 "I was referring to the Bible."
 Faukman cringed. "I knew that."
 "Laissez-le!" Sophie
Put it down!
s tweed jacket. Before 
Langdon knew what had happened, she had yanked out the pistol, swung it around, and was 
pressing it to the back of the driver
Sophie!
What the hell—
Arrêtez!
s dispatcher coming from the 
dashboard. "...qui s
 the radio crackled. 

 Langdon's muscles turned rigid. They found us already?
 
 Sophie demanded.
 The trembling driver kept his arms over his head as he got out of his taxi and took several steps 
backward.
 Sophie had rolled down her window and now aimed the gun outside at the bewildered cabbie. 

 she said quietly, 
re driving."
 Langdon was not about to argue with a woman wielding a gun. He climbed out of the car and 
jumped back in behind the wheel. The driver was yelling curses, his arms still raised over his head.
 "Robert," Sophie said from the back seat, "I trust you

 He nodded. Plenty.
 

 Langdon looked down at the car's controls and hesitated. Shit. He groped for the stick shift and 
clutch. 

 
 she yelled.
 Outside, several hookers were walking over to see what was going on. One woman was placing a 
call on her cell phone. Langdon depressed the clutch and jostled the stick into what he hoped was 
first gear. He touched the accelerator, testing the gas.
 Langdon popped the clutch. The tires howled as the taxi leapt forward, fishtailing wildly and 
sending the gathering crowd diving for cover. The woman with the cell phone leapt into the woods, 
only narrowly avoiding being run down.
 
 Sophie said, as the car lurched down the road. 

 
 he shouted over the sound of gnashing gears. 

 CHAPTER 39
 Although the spartan room in the brownstone on Rue La Bruyère had witnessed a lot of suffering, 
Silas doubted anything could match the anguish now gripping his pale body. I was deceived. 
Everything is lost.
 Silas had been tricked. The brothers had lied, choosing death instead of revealing their true secret. 
Silas did not have the strength to call the Teacher. Not only had Silas killed the only four people 
who knew where the keystone was hidden, he had killed a nun inside Saint-Sulpice. She was 
working against God! She scorned the work of Opus Dei!
 A crime of impulse, the woman's death complicated matters greatly. Bishop Aringarosa had placed 
the phone call that got Silas into Saint-Sulpice; what would the abbé think when he discovered the 
nun was dead? Although Silas had placed her back in her bed, the wound on her head was obvious. 
Silas had attempted to replace the broken tiles in the floor, but that damage too was obvious. They 
would know someone had been there.
 Silas had planned to hide within Opus Dei when his task here was complete. Bishop Aringarosa 
will protect me. Silas could imagine no more blissful existence than a life of meditation and prayer 
deep within the walls of Opus Dei's headquarters in New York City. He would never again set foot 
outside. Everything he needed was within that sanctuary. Nobody will miss me. Unfortunately, 
Silas knew, a prominent man like Bishop Aringarosa could not disappear so easily.
 I have endangered the bishop. Silas gazed blankly at the floor and pondered taking his own life. 
After all, it had been Aringarosa who gave Silas life in the first place... in that small rectory in 
Spain, educating him, giving him purpose.
 
 Aringarosa had told him, 


 Silas had never heard this.
 Aringarosa was smiling. 

 Over time, Silas learned to see himself in a new light. I am pure. White. Beautiful. Like an angel.
 At the moment, though, in his room at the residence hall, it was his father's disappointed voice that 
whispered to him from the past.
 Tu es un désastre. Un spectre.
 Kneeling on the wooden floor, Silas prayed for forgiveness. Then, stripping off his robe, he 
reached again for the Discipline.
 CHAPTER 40
 Struggling with the gear shift, Langdon managed to maneuver the hijacked taxi to the far side of 
the Bois de Boulogne while stalling only twice. Unfortunately, the inherent humor in the situation 
was overshadowed by the taxi dispatcher repeatedly hailing their cab over the radio.
 

 When Langdon reached the exit of the park, he swallowed his machismo and jammed on the 
brakes. 
d better drive."
 Sophie looked relieved as she jumped behind the wheel. Within seconds she had the car humming 
smoothly westward along Allée de Longchamp, leaving the Garden of Earthly Delights behind.
 "Which way is Rue Haxo?" Langdon asked, watching Sophie edge the speedometer over a hundred 
kilometers an hour.
 Sophie
The cab driver said it's adjacent to the Roland Garros 
tennis stadium. I know that area.
sighting
s art and diaries in hopes of unearthing a 
hidden clue as to the Grail
s famed Adoration of the Magi was hiding a dark secret beneath its layers of paint. 
Italian art diagnostician Maurizio Seracini had unveiled the unsettling truth, which the New York 
Times Magazine carried prominently in a story titled "The Leonardo Cover-Up."
 Seracini had revealed beyond any doubt that while the Adoration
s work, the painting itself was not. The truth was that some 
anonymous painter had filled in Da Vinci
s 
death. Far more troubling, however, was what lay beneath the impostor
s 
sketched study, had made suspicious departures from the underdrawing... as if to subvert Da 
Vinci
s Uffizi Gallery immediately banished the painting to a 
warehouse across the street. Visitors at the gallery
s great 
enigma. His artwork seemed bursting to tell a secret, and yet whatever it was remained hidden, 
perhaps beneath a layer of paint, perhaps enciphered in plain view, or perhaps nowhere at all. 
Maybe Da Vinci
Is it possible,
that the key you're holding unlocks the 
hiding place of the Holy Grail?
s laugh sounded forced, even to him. "I really can
 He gave her the quick history.
 
 she insisted. 

 Langdon knew her contention was logical, and yet intuitively he could not possibly accept it. 
Rumors existed that the Priory had vowed someday to bring the Grail back to France to a final 
resting place, but certainly no historical evidence existed to suggest that this indeed had happened. 
Even if the Priory had managed to bring the Grail back to France, the address 24 Rue Haxo near a 
tennis stadium hardly sounded like a noble final resting place. 
t see how this 
key could have anything to do with the Grail."
"Because the Grail is supposed to be in England?"
 "Not only that. The location of the Holy Grail is one of the best kept secrets in history. Priory 
members wait decades proving themselves trustworthy before being elevated to the highest 
echelons of the fraternity and learning where the Grail is. That secret is protected by an intricate 
system of compartmentalized knowledge, and although the Priory brotherhood is very large, only 
four members at any given time know where the Grail is hidden—the Grand Master and his three 
sénéchaux. The probability of your grandfather being one of those four top people is very slim."
 My grandfather was one of them, Sophie thought, pressing down on the accelerator. She had an 
image stamped in her memory that confirmed her grandfather
And even if your grandfather were in the upper echelon, he would never be allowed to reveal 
anything to anyone outside the brotherhood. It is inconceivable that he would bring you into the 
inner circle.
ve already been there, Sophie thought, picturing the ritual in the basement. She wondered if this 
were the moment to tell Langdon what she had witnessed that night in the Normandy château. For 
ten years now, simple shame had kept her from telling a soul. Just thinking about it, she shuddered. 
Sirens howled somewhere in the distance, and she felt a thickening shroud of fatigue settling over 
her.
 "There!" Langdon said, feeling excited to see the huge complex of the Roland Garros tennis 
stadium looming ahead.
 Sophie snaked her way toward the stadium. After several passes, they located the intersection of 
Rue Haxo and turned onto it, driving in the direction of the lower numbers. The road became more 
industrial, lined with businesses.
 We need number twenty-four, Langdon told himself, realizing he was secretly scanning the horizon 
for the spires of a church. Don
There it is,
s eyes followed to the structure ahead.
 What in the world?
 The building was modern. A squat citadel with a giant, neon equal-armed cross emblazoned atop 
its facade. Beneath the cross were the words:
 DEPOSITORY BANK OF ZURICH
Langdon was thankful not to have shared his Templar church hopes with Sophie. A career hazard 
of symbologists was a tendency to extract hidden meaning from situations that had none. In this 
case, Langdon had entirely forgotten that the peaceful, equal-armed cross had been adopted as the 
perfect symbol for the flag of neutral Switzerland.
 At least the mystery was solved.
 Sophie and Langdon were holding the key to a Swiss bank deposit box.
 CHAPTER 41
 Outside Castel Gandolfo, an updraft of mountain air gushed over the top of the cliff and across the 
high bluff, sending a chill through Bishop Aringarosa as he stepped from the Fiat. I should have 
worn more than this cassock, he thought, fighting the reflex to shiver. The last thing he needed to 
appear tonight was weak or fearful.
 The castle was dark save the windows at the very top of the building, which glowed ominously. 
The library, Aringarosa thought. They are awake and waiting. He ducked his head against the wind 
and continued on without so much as a glance toward the observatory domes.
 The priest who greeted him at the door looked sleepy. He was the same priest who had greeted 
Aringarosa five months ago, albeit tonight he did so with much less hospitality. "We were worried 
about you, Bishop," the priest said, checking his watch and looking more perturbed than worried.
 "My apologies. Airlines are so unreliable these days."
 The priest mumbled something inaudible and then said, "They are waiting upstairs. I will escort 
you up."
 The library was a vast square room with dark wood from floor to ceiling. On all sides, towering 
bookcases burgeoned with volumes. The floor was amber marble with black basalt trim, a 
handsome reminder that this building had once been a palace.
 "Welcome, Bishop," a man
My humble apologies for the hour. We're on different 
time zones. You must be tired.
Not at all,
We are grateful you have 
come so far. The least we can do is be awake to meet you. Can we offer you some coffee or 
refreshments?
I'd prefer we don't pretend this is a social visit. I have another plane to catch. Shall we get to 
business?
Of course,
You have acted more quickly than we imagined.
Have I?
You still have a month.
You made your concerns known five months ago,
Why should I wait?
Indeed. We are very pleased with your expediency.
s eyes traveled the length of the long table to a large black briefcase. "Is that what I 
requested?"
 "It is." The secretariat sounded uneasy. "Although, I must admit, we are concerned with the 
request. It seems quite..."
 "Dangerous," one of the cardinals finished. "Are you certain we cannot wire it to you somewhere? 
The sum is exorbitant."
 Freedom is expensive. "I have no concerns for my own safety. God is with me."
 The men actually looked doubtful.
 "The funds are exactly as I requested?"
 The secretariat nodded. "Large-denomination bearer bonds drawn on the Vatican Bank. Negotiable 
as cash anywhere in the world."
Aringarosa walked to the end of the table and opened the briefcase. Inside were two thick stacks of 
bonds, each embossed with the Vatican seal and the title PORTATORE, making the bonds 
redeemable to whoever was holding them.
 The secretariat looked tense. "I must say, Bishop, all of us would feel less apprehensive if these 
funds were in cash."
 I could not lift that much cash, Aringarosa thought, closing the case. "Bonds are negotiable as cash. 
You said so yourself."
 The cardinals exchanged uneasy looks, and finally one said, "Yes, but these bonds are traceable 
directly to the Vatican Bank."
 Aringarosa smiled inwardly. That was precisely the reason the Teacher suggested Aringarosa get 
the money in Vatican Bank bonds. It served as insurance. We are all in this together now. "This is 
a perfectly legal transaction," Aringarosa defended. "Opus Dei is a personal prelature of Vatican 
City, and His Holiness can disperse monies however he sees fit. No law has been broken here."
 "True, and yet..." The secretariat leaned forward and his chair creaked under the burden. "We have 
no knowledge of what you intend to do with these funds, and if it is in any way illegal..."
 "Considering what you are asking of me," Aringarosa countered, "what I do with this money is not 
your concern."
 There was a long silence.
 They know I
Now, I imagine you have something for me to sign?
This is identical to the copy you sent 
me?
Exactly.
Thank you, Bishop,
Your service to the Church will never be forgotten.
Bishop?
Yes?
Where will you go from here?
Paris,
s 
uncompromising architecture and sensed the Depository Bank of Zurich was a firm with little sense 
of humor. The building was a windowless rectangle that seemed to be forged entirely of dull steel. 
Resembling an enormous metal brick, the edifice sat back from the road with a fifteen-foot-tall, 
neon, equilateral cross glowing over its facade.
 Switzerland
s most lucrative 
exports. Facilities like this had become controversial in the art community because they provided a 
perfect place for art thieves to hide stolen goods, for years if necessary, until the heat was off. 
Because deposits were protected from police inspection by privacy laws and were attached to 
numbered accounts rather than people
s driveway—a cement-lined 
ramp that descended beneath the building. A video camera overhead was aimed directly at them, 
and Langdon had the feeling that this camera, unlike those at the Louvre, was authentic.
 Sophie rolled down the window and surveyed the electronic podium on the driver
Something tells me it will fit,
s triangular shaft with the hole and inserted it, sliding it in until the entire 
shaft had disappeared. This key apparently required no turning. Instantly, the gate began to swing 
open. Sophie took her foot off the brake and coasted down to a second gate and podium. Behind 
her, the first gate closed, trapping them like a ship in a lock.
 Langdon disliked the constricted sensation. Let
s main entrance. A red carpet stretched across the cement floor, welcoming 
visitors to a huge door that appeared to be forged of solid metal.
 Talk about mixed messages, Langdon thought. Welcome and keep out.
 Sophie pulled the taxi into a parking space near the entrance and killed the engine. "You

 With pleasure, Langdon thought, sliding the pistol under the seat.
 Sophie and Langdon got out and walked up the red carpet toward the slab of steel. The door had no 
handle, but on the wall beside it was another triangular keyhole. No directions were posted this 
time.
 
 Langdon said.
 Sophie laughed, looking nervous. 
 She stuck the key in the hole, and the door swung 
inward with a low hum. Exchanging glances, Sophie and Langdon entered. The door shut with a 
thud behind them.
 The foyer of the Depository Bank of Zurich employed as imposing a decor as any Langdon had 
ever seen. Where most banks were content with the usual polished marble and granite, this one had 
opted for wall-to-wall metal and rivets.
 Who's their decorator? Langdon wondered. Allied Steel?
 Sophie looked equally intimidated as her eyes scanned the lobby.
 The gray metal was everywhere—the floor, walls, counters, doors, even the lobby chairs appeared 
to be fashioned of molded iron. Nonetheless, the effect was impressive. The message was clear: 
You are walking into a vault.
 A large man behind the counter glanced up as they entered. He turned off the small television he 
was watching and greeted them with a pleasant smile. Despite his enormous muscles and visible 
sidearm, his diction chimed with the polished courtesy of a Swiss bellhop.
 
 he said. 

 The dual-language greeting was the newest hospitality trick of the European host. It presumed 
nothing and opened the door for the guest to reply in whichever language was more comfortable.
 Sophie replied with neither. She simply laid the gold key on the counter in front of the man.
 The man glanced down and immediately stood straighter. 

 Sophie nodded and took her key back. 

 The man gave her an odd look. 

 She smiled. 

 The guard watched as the two newcomers made their way to the elevators, inserted their key, 
boarded the lift, and disappeared. As soon as the door had closed, he grabbed the phone. He was 
not calling to alert anyone of their arrival; there was no need for that. A vault greeter already had 
been alerted automatically when the client's key was inserted outside in the entry gate.
 Instead, the guard was calling the bank's night manager. As the line rang, the guard switched the 
television back on and stared at it. The news story he had been watching was just ending. It didn't 
matter. He got another look at the two faces on the television.
 The manager answered. 

 

 
s happening?" the manager demanded.
 "The French police are tracking two fugitives tonight."
 "So?"
 "Both of them just walked into our bank."
 The manager cursed quietly. "Okay. I

 The guard then hung up and placed a second call. This one to Interpol.
 Langdon was surprised to feel the elevator dropping rather than climbing. He had no idea how 
many floors they had descended beneath the Depository Bank of Zurich before the door finally 
opened. He didn't care. He was happy to be out of the elevator.
 Displaying impressive alacrity, a host was already standing there to greet them. He was elderly and 
pleasant, wearing a neatly pressed flannel suit that made him look oddly out of place—an old
world banker in a high-tech world.
 
 the man said. 
il vous plait?" 
Without waiting for a response, he spun on his heel and strode briskly down a narrow metal 
corridor.
 Langdon walked with Sophie down a series of corridors, past several large rooms filled with 
blinking mainframe computers.
 "Voici," their host said, arriving at a steel door and opening it for them. "Here you are."
 Langdon and Sophie stepped into another world. The small room before them looked like a lavish 
sitting room at a fine hotel. Gone were the metal and rivets, replaced with oriental carpets, dark oak 
furniture, and cushioned chairs. On the broad desk in the middle of the room, two crystal glasses 
sat beside an opened bottle of Perrier, its bubbles still fizzing. A pewter pot of coffee steamed 
beside it.
Clockwork, Langdon thought. Leave it to the Swiss.
 The man gave a perceptive smile. "I sense this is your first visit to us?"
 Sophie hesitated and then nodded.
 "Understood. Keys are often passed on as inheritance, and our first-time users are invariably 
uncertain of the protocol." He motioned to the table of drinks. "This room is yours as long as you 
care to use it."
 "You say keys are sometimes inherited?" Sophie asked.
 "Indeed. Your key is like a Swiss numbered account, which are often willed through generations. 
On our gold accounts, the shortest safety-deposit box lease is fifty years. Paid in advance. So we 
see plenty of family turnover."
 Langdon stared. "Did you say fifty years?"
 "At a minimum," their host replied. "Of course, you can purchase much longer leases, but barring 
further arrangements, if there is no activity on an account for fifty years, the contents of that safe
deposit box are automatically destroyed. Shall I run through the process of accessing your box?"
 Sophie nodded. "Please."
 Their host swept an arm across the luxurious salon. "This is your private viewing room. Once I 
leave the room, you may spend all the time you need in here to review and modify the contents of 
your safe-deposit box, which arrives... over here." He walked them to the far wall where a wide 
conveyor belt entered the room in a graceful curve, vaguely resembling a baggage claim carousel. 
"You insert your key in that slot there...." The man pointed to a large electronic podium facing the 
conveyor belt. The podium had a familiar triangular hole. "Once the computer confirms the 
markings on your key, you enter your account number, and your safe-deposit box will be retrieved 
robotically from the vault below for your inspection. When you are finished with your box, you 
place it back on the conveyor belt, insert your key again, and the process is reversed. Because 
everything is automated, your privacy is guaranteed, even from the staff of this bank. If you need 
anything at all, simply press the call button on the table in the center of the room."
 Sophie was about to ask a question when a telephone rang. The man looked puzzled and 
embarrassed. "Excuse me, please." He walked over to the phone, which was sitting on the table 
beside the coffee and Perrier.
 "Oui?" he answered.
 His brow furrowed as he listened to the caller. "Oui... oui... d
 He hung up, and gave them 
an uneasy smile. 
m sorry, I must leave you now. Make yourselves at home." He moved quickly 
toward the door.
 "Excuse me," Sophie called. "Could you clarify something before you go? You mentioned that we 
enter an account number?"
 The man paused at the door, looking pale. "But of course. Like most Swiss banks, our safe-deposit 
boxes are attached to a number, not a name. You have a key and a personal account number known 
only to you. Your key is only half of your identification. Your personal account number is the other 
half. Otherwise, if you lost your key, anyone could use it."
 Sophie hesitated. "And if my benefactor gave me no account number?"
 The banker
I will ask someone to help you. He will be in shortly.
Interpol got a tip,
Forget the train. Langdon and Neveu just walked into 
the Paris branch of the Depository Bank of Zurich. I want your men over there right away.
Any leads yet on what Saunière was trying to tell Agent Neveu and Robert Langdon?
s tone was cold. "If you arrest them, Lieutenant Collet, then I can ask them personally."
 Collet took the hint. "Twenty-four Rue Haxo. Right away, Captain." He hung up and radioed his 
men.
 CHAPTER 43
 André Vernet—president of the Paris branch of the Depository Bank of Zurich—lived in a lavish 
flat above the bank. Despite his plush accommodations, he had always dreamed of owning a 
riverside apartment on L
s underground corridor, he looked as if his personal tailor and hairdresser had polished him to 
a fine sheen. Impeccably dressed in a silk suit, Vernet sprayed some breath spray in his mouth and 
tightened his tie as he walked. No stranger to being awoken to attend to his international clients 
arriving from different time zones, Vernet modeled his sleep habits after the Maasai warriors—the 
African tribe famous for their ability to rise from the deepest sleep to a state of total battle 
readiness in a matter of seconds.
 Battle ready, Vernet thought, fearing the comparison might be uncharacteristically apt tonight. The 
arrival of a gold key client always required an extra flurry of attention, but the arrival of a gold key 
client who was wanted by the Judicial Police would be an extremely delicate matter. The bank had 
enough battles with law enforcement over the privacy rights of their clients without proof that 
some of them were criminals.
 Five minutes, Vernet told himself. I need these people out of my bank before the police arrive.
 If he moved quickly, this impending disaster could be deftly sidestepped. Vernet could tell the 
police that the fugitives in question had indeed walked into his bank as reported, but because they 
were not clients and had no account number, they were turned away. He wished the damned 
watchman had not called Interpol. Discretion was apparently not part of the vocabulary of a 15
euro-per-hour watchman.
 Stopping at the doorway, he took a deep breath and loosened his muscles. Then, forcing a balmy 
smile, he unlocked the door and swirled into the room like a warm breeze.
 "Good evening," he said, his eyes finding his clients. "I am André Vernet. How can I be of serv—" 
The rest of the sentence lodged somewhere beneath his Adam
I'm sorry, do we know each other?
d seen a ghost.
 "No...," the bank president fumbled. "I don
 He 
exhaled and forced a calm smile. 

 
 Sophie replied, watching the man closely. His uneasiness seemed 
more evident now.


 
t think he had time," Sophie said. "He was murdered tonight."
 Her words sent the man staggering backward. "Jacques Saunière is dead?" he demanded, his eyes 
filling with horror. "But... how?!"
 Now it was Sophie who reeled, numb with shock. "You knew my grandfather?"
 Banker André Vernet looked equally astounded, steadying himself by leaning on an end table. 
"Jacques and I were dear friends. When did this happen?"
 "Earlier this evening. Inside the Louvre."
 Vernet walked to a deep leather chair and sank into it. "I need to ask you both a very important 
question." He glanced up at Langdon and then back to Sophie. "Did either of you have anything to 
do with his death?"
 "No!" Sophie declared. "Absolutely not."
 Vernet
Your pictures are being circulated by Interpol. 
This is how I recognized you. You're wanted for a murder.
And as your grandfather was dying, he left you a message telling you to 
find Mr. Langdon?
Yes. And this key.
He left you only this key? Nothing else? 
No slip of paper?
No. Just the key.
I'm afraid every key is electronically paired with a ten-digit account 
number that functions as a password. Without that number, your key is worthless.
s most powerful parallel processing computers, she still would 
need weeks to break the code. "Certainly, monsieur, considering the circumstances, you can help 
us."
 "I

 Sophie understood. Convenience stores did the same thing. EMPLOYEES DO NOT HAVE KEYS 
TO THE SAFE. This bank obviously did not want to risk someone stealing a key and then holding 
an employee hostage for the account number.
 Sophie sat down beside Langdon, glanced down at the key and then up at Vernet. 

 

 
 she pressed, 
 
She reached out to the gold key and flipped it over, watching the man's eyes as she revealed the 
Priory of Sion seal. 

 Vernet glanced down at the fleur-de-lis seal and made no reaction. 

 Sophie sighed, still watching him carefully. 

 Vernet again showed no reaction. 
 The man adjusted his tie, looking nervous now.
 
 Sophie pressed, her tone firm. 

 Vernet broke a sweat. 
m afraid the police will arrive shortly. 
My watchman felt obliged to call Interpol."
 Sophie had feared as much. She took one last shot. "My grandfather said he needed to tell me the 
truth about my family. Does that mean anything to you?"
 "Mademoiselle, your family died in a car accident when you were young. I

Sophie was uncertain how to respond.
 Langdon asked, 

 Vernet gave him an odd look. 
 Just then, Vernet's cell phone rang, and 
he snatched it off his belt. 
 He listened a moment, his expression one of surprise and 
growing concern. 
 He cursed, gave some quick directions in French, 
and said he would be up to the lobby in a minute.
 Hanging up the phone, he turned back to Sophie. 

 Sophie had no intention of leaving empty-handed. 

 
 Vernet said, 
 He stood up and hurried for the door. 
ll make arrangements and be right 
back."
 "But the safe-deposit box," Sophie declared. "We can

 
s nothing I can do," Vernet said, hurrying out the door. "I

 Sophie stared after him a moment, wondering if maybe the account number was buried in one of 
the countless letters and packages her grandfather had sent her over the years and which she had 
left unopened.
 Langdon stood suddenly, and Sophie sensed an unexpected glimmer of contentment in his eyes.
 
re smiling."
 "Your grandfather was a genius."
 "I

 

 Sophie had no idea what he was talking about.
 
 he said, a familiar lopsided grin now craning his face. 
m pretty sure he 
left it for us after all."
 "Where?"
 Langdon produced the printout of the crime scene photo and spread it out on the coffee table. 
Sophie needed only to read the first line to know Langdon was correct.
 13-3-2-21-1-1-8-5
 O, Draconian devil!
 Oh, lame saint!
 P.S. Find Robert Langdon
 CHAPTER 44
 "Ten digits," Sophie said, her cryptologic senses tingling as she studied the printout.
 13-3-2-21-1-1-8-5
 Grand-père wrote his account number on the Louvre floor!
 When Sophie had first seen the scrambled Fibonacci sequence on the parquet, she had assumed its 
sole purpose was to encourage DCPJ to call in their cryptographers and get Sophie involved. Later, 
she realized the numbers were also a clue as to how to decipher the other lines—a sequence out of 
order... a numeric anagram. Now, utterly amazed, she saw the numbers had a more important 
meaning still. They were almost certainly the final key to opening her grandfather
He was the master of double-entendres,
He loved anything 
with multiple layers of meaning. Codes within codes.
s 
cruciform logo. Beside the keypad was a triangular hole. Sophie wasted no time inserting the shaft 
of her key into the hole.
 The screen refreshed instantly.
 ACCOUNT NUMBER: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
The cursor blinked. Waiting.
 Ten digits. Sophie read the numbers off the printout, and Langdon typed them in.
 ACCOUNT NUMBER: 1332211185
 When he had typed the last digit, the screen refreshed again. A message in several languages 
appeared. English was on top.
 CAUTION:
 Before you strike the enter key, please check the accuracy of your 
account number.
 For your own security, if the computer does not recognize your 
account number, this system will automatically shut down.
 "Fonction terminer," Sophie said, frowning. "Looks like we only get one try." Standard ATM 
machines allowed users three attempts to type a PIN before confiscating their bank card. This was 
obviously no ordinary cash machine.
 "The number looks right," Langdon confirmed, carefully checking what they had typed and 
comparing it to the printout. He motioned to the ENTER key. "Fire away."
 Sophie extended her index finger toward the keypad, but hesitated, an odd thought now hitting her.
 "Go ahead," Langdon urged. "Vernet will be back soon."
 "No." She pulled her hand away. "This isn

 

 
s too random."
 Too random? Langdon could not have disagreed more. Every bank advised its customers to choose 
PINs at random so nobody could guess them. Certainly clients here would be advised to choose 
their account numbers at random.
Sophie deleted everything she had just typed in and looked up at Langdon, her gaze self-assured. 
"It

 Langdon realized she had a point. Earlier, Sophie had rearranged this account number into the 
Fibonacci sequence. What were the odds of being able to do that?
 Sophie was at the keypad again, entering a different number, as if from memory. 
s love of symbolism and codes, it seems to follow that he would have chosen an 
account number that had meaning to him, something he could easily remember." She finished 
typing the entry and gave a sly smile. "Something that appeared random... but was not." Langdon 
looked at the screen.
 ACCOUNT NUMBER: 1123581321
 It took him an instant, but when Langdon spotted it, he knew she was right.
 The Fibonacci sequence.
 1-1-2-3-5-8-13-21
 When the Fibonacci sequence was melded into a single ten-digit number, it became virtually 
unrecognizable. Easy to remember, and yet seemingly random. A brilliant ten-digit code that 
Saunière would never forget. Furthermore, it perfectly explained why the scrambled numbers on 
the Louvre floor could be rearranged to form the famous progression.
 Sophie reached down and pressed the ENTER key.
 Nothing happened.
 At least nothing they could detect.
 At that moment, beneath them, in the bank
s favorite. 
The lid bore a beautiful inlaid design of a rose. She and Langdon exchanged puzzled looks. Sophie 
leaned in and grabbed the box, lifting it out.
 My God, it
s hand-carved inlay—a five-petal rose. He had seen this 
type of rose many times. "The five-petal rose," he whispered, "is a Priory symbol for the Holy 
Grail."
 Sophie turned and looked at him. Langdon could see what she was thinking, and he was thinking it 
too. The dimensions of the box, the apparent weight of its contents, and a Priory symbol for the 
Grail all seemed to imply one unfathomable conclusion. The Cup of Christ is in this wooden box. 
Langdon again told himself it was impossible.
 "It
 Sophie whispered, 

 It can't be a chalice.
 Sophie pulled the box toward her across the table, preparing to open it. As she moved it, though, 
something unexpected happened. The box let out an odd gurgling sound.
 Langdon did a double take. There's liquid inside?
 Sophie looked equally confused. 

 Langdon nodded, lost. 

 Reaching forward, Sophie slowly unhooked the clasp and raised the lid.
 The object inside was unlike anything Langdon had ever seen. One thing was immediately clear to 
both of them, however. This was definitely not the Cup of Christ.
 CHAPTER 45
 
 André Vernet said, walking into the waiting room. 
 As he closed the door behind him, Vernet saw the heavy-duty plastic 
case on the conveyor belt and halted in his tracks. My God! They accessed Saunière's account?
 Sophie and Langdon were at the table, huddling over what looked to be a large wooden jewelry 
box. Sophie immediately closed the lid and looked up. 
 she 
said.
 Vernet was speechless. This changed everything. He respectfully diverted his eyes from the box 
and tried to figure out his next move. I have to get them out of the bank! But with the police already 
having set up a roadblock, Vernet could imagine only one way to do that. 

Sophie glanced at Langdon and then back to Vernet. 

 Vernet nodded. 

 As Langdon shed his jacket, Vernet hurried over to the conveyor belt, closed the now empty crate, 
and typed a series of simple commands. The conveyor belt began moving again, carrying the 
plastic container back down to the vault. Pulling the gold key from the podium, he handed it to 
Sophie.
 

 When they reached the rear loading dock, Vernet could see the flash of police lights filtering 
through the underground garage. He frowned. They were probably blocking the ramp. Am I really 
going to try to pull this off? He was sweating now.
 Vernet motioned to one of the bank's small armored trucks. Transport sûr was another service 
offered by the Depository Bank of Zurich.
 
 he said, heaving open the massive rear door and motioning to the 
glistening steel compartment. 
ll be right back."
 As Sophie and Langdon climbed in, Vernet hurried across the loading dock to the dock overseer
s uniform jacket and cap. 
Shedding his own suit coat and tie, he began to put on the driver
s pistol from the rack, 
put in a clip, and stuffed it in the holster, buttoning his uniform over it. Returning to the truck, 
Vernet pulled the driver
You'll want this on,
s ceiling. "And you

 Sophie and Langdon sat down on the metal floor. Langdon cradled the treasure wadded in his 
tweed jacket. Swinging the heavy doors closed, Vernet locked them inside. Then he got in behind 
the wheel and revved the engine.
 As the armored truck lumbered toward the top of the ramp, Vernet could feel the sweat already 
collecting beneath his driver's cap. He could see there were far more police lights in front than he 
had imagined. As the truck powered up the ramp, the interior gate swung inward to let him pass. 
Vernet advanced and waited while the gate behind him closed before pulling forward and tripping 
the next sensor. The second gate opened, and the exit beckoned.
 Except for the police car blocking the top of the ramp.
 Vernet dabbed his brow and pulled forward.
 A lanky officer stepped out and waved him to a stop a few meters from the roadblock. Four patrol 
cars were parked out front.
 Vernet stopped. Pulling his driver's cap down farther, he effected as rough a facade as his cultured 
upbringing would allow. Not budging from behind the wheel, he opened the door and gazed down 
at the agent, whose face was stern and sallow.
 
est-ce qui se passe?" Vernet asked, his tone rough.
 "Je suis Jérome Collet," the agent said. "Lieutenant Police Judiciaire." He motioned to the truck
Qu'est-ce qu'ily a là dedans?
Hell if I know,
I'm only a driver.
We're looking for two criminals.
Then you came to the right spot. Some of these bastards I drive for have so much 
money they must be criminals.
Was this man in your bank tonight?
No clue. I'm a dock rat. They don't let us anywhere near the clients. You need to 
go in and ask the front desk.
Your bank is demanding a search warrant before we can enter.
Administrators. Don't get me started.
Open your truck, please.
Open the truck? You think I have keys? 
You think they trust us? You should see the crap wages I get paid.
s head tilted to one side, his skepticism evident. "You
t have keys 
to your own truck?"
 Vernet shook his head. "Not the cargo area. Ignition only. These trucks get sealed by overseers on 
the loading dock. Then the truck sits in dock while someone drives the cargo keys to the drop-off. 
Once we get the call that the cargo keys are with the recipient, then I get the okay to drive. Not a 
second before. I never know what the hell I

 

 
m driving all the way up to St. Thurial tonight. Cargo keys are 
already up there."
 The agent made no response, his eyes probing as if trying to read Vernet
s nose. "You mind?" he said, wiping his nose 
with his sleeve and motioning to the police car blocking his way. "I

 
 the agent asked, pointing to Vernet's wrist.
 Vernet glanced down and saw the glistening band of his absurdly expensive watch peeking out 
from beneath the sleeve of his jacket. Merde. 
ll sell it to you for forty."
 The agent paused and finally stepped aside. "No thanks. Have a safe trip."
 Vernet did not breathe again until the truck was a good fifty meters down the street. And now he 
had another problem. His cargo. Where do I take them?
 CHAPTER 46
 Silas lay prone on the canvas mat in his room, allowing the lash wounds on his back to clot in the 
air. Tonight
s salvation. Five months ago, the bishop had 
returned from a meeting at the Vatican Observatory, where he had learned something that left him 
deeply changed. Depressed for weeks, Aringarosa had finally shared the news with Silas.
 "But this is impossible!" Silas had cried out. "I cannot accept it!"
"It is true," Aringarosa said. "Unthinkable, but true. In only six months."
 The bishop
Silas,
God has bestowed upon 
us an opportunity to protect The Way. Our battle, like all battles, will take sacrifice. Will you be a 
soldier of God?
I am a lamb of God. Shepherd me as your heart commands.
s faith and by the scope of his power. The Teacher seemed to be a man who knew all, a 
man with eyes and ears in all places. How the Teacher gathered his information, Silas did not 
know, but Aringarosa had placed enormous trust in the Teacher, and he had told Silas to do the 
same. "Do as the Teacher commands you," the bishop told Silas. "And we will be victorious."
 Victorious. Silas now gazed at the bare floor and feared victory had eluded them. The Teacher had 
been tricked. The keystone was a devious dead end. And with the deception, all hope had vanished.
 Silas wished he could call Bishop Aringarosa and warn him, but the Teacher had removed all their 
lines of direct communication tonight. For our safety.
 Finally, overcoming enormous trepidation, Silas crawled to his feet and found his robe, which lay 
on the floor. He dug his cell phone from the pocket. Hanging his head in shame, he dialed.
 "Teacher," he whispered, "all is lost." Silas truthfully told the man how he had been tricked.
 "You lose your faith too quickly," the Teacher replied. "I have just received news. Most 
unexpected and welcome. The secret lives. Jacques Saunière transferred information before he 
died. I will call you soon. Our work tonight is not yet done."
 CHAPTER 47
Riding inside the dimly lit cargo hold of the armored truck was like being transported inside a cell 
for solitary confinement. Langdon fought the all too familiar anxiety that haunted him in confined 
spaces. Vernet said he would take us a safe distance out of the city. Where? How far?
 Langdon
I think we're on the highway now,
Go ahead,
Open it.
s heavily padded interior of 
crimson silk lay an object Langdon could not even begin to comprehend.
 Crafted of polished white marble, it was a stone cylinder approximately the dimensions of a tennis 
ball can. More complicated than a simple column of stone, however, the cylinder appeared to have 
been assembled in many pieces. Six doughnut-sized disks of marble had been stacked and affixed 
to one another within a delicate brass framework. It looked like some kind of tubular, multiwheeled 
kaleidoscope. Each end of the cylinder was affixed with an end cap, also marble, making it 
impossible to see inside. Having heard liquid within, Langdon assumed the cylinder was hollow.
 As mystifying as the construction of the cylinder was, however, it was the engravings around the 
tube
s primary focus. Each of the six disks had been carefully 
carved with the same unlikely series of letters—the entire alphabet. The lettered cylinder reminded 
Langdon of one of his childhood toys—a rod threaded with lettered tumblers that could be rotated 
to spell different words.
"Amazing, isn
 Sophie whispered.
 Langdon glanced up. 
t know. What the hell is it?"
 Now there was a glint in Sophie
My grandfather used to craft these as a hobby. They were 
invented by Leonardo da Vinci.
s surprise.
 "Da Vinci?" he muttered, looking again at the canister.
 "Yes. It
s secret diaries."
 "What is it for?"
 Considering tonight
It's a vault,
For storing secret information.
s eyes widened further.
 Sophie explained that creating models of Da Vinci
s best
loved hobbies. A talented craftsman who spent hours in his wood and metal shop, Jacques Saunière 
enjoyed imitating master craftsmen—Fabergé, assorted cloisonne artisans, and the less artistic, but 
far more practical, Leonardo da Vinci.
 Even a cursory glance through Da Vinci
s favorite pastimes was 
bringing Da Vinci
He made me one of these when I was little,
But I've never seen one so ornate and 
large.
s eyes had never left the box. "I

Sophie was not surprised. Most of Leonardo's unbuilt inventions had never been studied or even 
named. The term cryptex possibly had been her grandfather's creation, an apt title for this device 
that used the science of cryptology to protect information written on the contained scroll or codex.
 Da Vinci had been a cryptology pioneer, Sophie knew, although he was seldom given credit. 
Sophie's university instructors, while presenting computer encryption methods for securing data, 
praised modern cryptologists like Zimmerman and Schneier but failed to mention that it was 
Leonardo who had invented one of the first rudimentary forms of public key encryption centuries 
ago. Sophie's grandfather, of course, had been the one to tell her all about that.
 As their armored truck roared down the highway, Sophie explained to Langdon that the cryptex 
had been Da Vinci's solution to the dilemma of sending secure messages over long distances. In an 
era without telephones or e-mail, anyone wanting to convey private information to someone far 
away had no option but to write it down and then trust a messenger to carry the letter. 
Unfortunately, if a messenger suspected the letter might contain valuable information, he could 
make far more money selling the information to adversaries than he could delivering the letter 
properly.
 Many great minds in history had invented cryptologic solutions to the challenge of data protection: 
Julius Caesar devised a code-writing scheme called the Caesar Box; Mary, Queen of Scots created 
a transposition cipher and sent secret communiqués from prison; and the brilliant Arab scientist 
Abu Yusuf Ismail al-Kindi protected his secrets with an ingeniously conceived polyalphabetic 
substitution cipher.
 Da Vinci, however, eschewed mathematics and cryptology for a mechanical solution. The cryptex. 
A portable container that could safeguard letters, maps, diagrams, anything at all. Once information 
was sealed inside the cryptex, only the individual with the proper password could access it.
 
 Sophie said, pointing out the lettered dials. 
s combination lock. If you align the dials in the proper position, the lock slides open. This 
cryptex has five lettered dials. When you rotate them to their proper sequence, the tumblers inside 
align, and the entire cylinder slides apart."
 "And inside?"
 "Once the cylinder slides apart, you have access to a hollow central compartment, which can hold a 
scroll of paper on which is the information you want to keep private."
 Langdon looked incredulous. "And you say your grandfather built these for you when you were 
younger?"
 "Some smaller ones, yes. A couple times for my birthday, he gave me a cryptex and told me a 
riddle. The answer to the riddle was the password to the cryptex, and once I figured it out, I could 
open it up and find my birthday card."
 "A lot of work for a card."
 "No, the cards always contained another riddle or clue. My grandfather loved creating elaborate 
treasure hunts around our house, a string of clues that eventually led to my real gift. Each treasure 
hunt was a test of character and merit, to ensure I earned my rewards. And the tests were never 
simple."
 Langdon eyed the device again, still looking skeptical. "But why not just pry it apart? Or smash it? 
The metal looks delicate, and marble is a soft rock."
 Sophie smiled. "Because Da Vinci is too smart for that. He designed the cryptex so that if you try 
to force it open in any way, the information self-destructs. Watch." Sophie reached into the box and 
carefully lifted out the cylinder. "Any information to be inserted is first written on a papyrus 
scroll."
 "Not vellum?"
 Sophie shook her head. "Papyrus. I know sheep

 

 
s compartment, it was rolled around a delicate 
glass vial." She tipped the cryptex, and the liquid inside gurgled. "A vial of liquid."
 "Liquid what?"
 Sophie smiled. "Vinegar."
 Langdon hesitated a moment and then began nodding. "Brilliant."
 Vinegar and papyrus, Sophie thought. If someone attempted to force open the cryptex, the glass 
vial would break, and the vinegar would quickly dissolve the papyrus. By the time anyone 
extracted the secret message, it would be a glob of meaningless pulp.
 "As you can see," Sophie told him, "the only way to access the information inside is to know the 
proper five-letter password. And with five dials, each with twenty-six letters, that
 She quickly estimated the permutations. 

 
 Langdon said, looking like he had approximately twelve million questions running 
through his head. 

 
 She paused, closing 
the box lid and eyeing the five-petal Rose inlaid on it. Something was bothering her. 

 

 Sophie furrowed her brow. 
s strange, because my grandfather always told me the Rose meant 
secrecy. He used to hang a rose on his office door at home when he was having a confidential 
phone call and didn
 Sweetie, her 
grandfather said, rather than lock each other out, we can each hang a rose—la fleur des 
secrets—on our door when we need privacy. This way we learn to respect and trust each other. 
Hanging a rose is an ancient Roman custom.
 
 Langdon said. 

 Langdon quickly explained that the Rose's overtone of secrecy was not the only reason the Priory 
used it as a symbol for the Grail. Rosa rugosa, one of the oldest species of rose, had five petals and 
pentagonal symmetry, just like the guiding star of Venus, giving the Rose strong iconographic ties 
to womanhood. In addition, the Rose had close ties to the concept of 
 and 
navigating one's way. The Compass Rose helped travelers navigate, as did Rose Lines, the 
longitudinal lines on maps. For this reason, the Rose was a symbol that spoke of the Grail on many 
levels—secrecy, womanhood, and guidance—the feminine chalice and guiding star that led to 
secret truth.
 As Langdon finished his explanation, his expression seemed to tighten suddenly.
 

 His eyes were riveted to the rosewood box. 
 he choked, a fearful bewilderment 
sweeping across his face. 
t be."
 "What?"
 Langdon slowly raised his eyes. "Under the sign of the Rose," he whispered. "This cryptex... I 
think I know what it is."
 CHAPTER 48
Langdon could scarcely believe his own supposition, and yet, considering who had given this stone 
cylinder to them, how he had given it to them, and now, the inlaid Rose on the container, Langdon 
could formulate only one conclusion.
 I am holding the Priory keystone.
 The legend was specific.
 The keystone is an encoded stone that lies beneath the sign of the Rose.
 "Robert?" Sophie was watching him. "What

 Langdon needed a moment to gather his thoughts. 

 
 Sophie translated.
 
s the literal translation. Clef de voûte is a common architectural term. Voûte refers not to a 
bank vault, but to a vault in an archway. Like a vaulted ceiling."
 "But vaulted ceilings don

 
 Langdon watched her eyes for any spark of 
recognition.
 Sophie shrugged, glancing down at the cryptex. 

 Langdon didn't know where to begin. Keystones as a masonry technique for building stone 
archways had been one of the best-kept secrets of the early Masonic brotherhood. The Royal Arch 
Degree. Architecture. Keystones. It was all interconnected. The secret knowledge of how to use a 
wedged keystone to build a vaulted archway was part of the wisdom that had made the Masons 
such wealthy craftsmen, and it was a secret they guarded carefully. Keystones had always had a 
tradition of secrecy. And yet, the stone cylinder in the rosewood box was obviously something 
quite different. The Priory keystone—if this was indeed what they were holding—was not at all 
what Langdon had imagined.
 
 Langdon admitted. 

 Sophie's eyebrows arched. 

Langdon gave an uneasy nod, speaking his next words carefully. 

 Sophie's face went blank. 

 Langdon didn't know what to say. Even to him it sounded unbelievable, and yet the keystone was 
the only logical conclusion he could muster. An encrypted stone, hidden beneath the sign of the 
Rose.
 The idea that the cryptex had been designed by Leonardo da Vinci—former Grand Master of the 
Priory of Sion—shone as another tantalizing indicator that this was indeed the Priory keystone. A 
former Grand Master's blueprint... brought to life centuries later by another Priory member. The 
bond was too palpable to dismiss.
 For the last decade, historians had been searching for the keystone in French churches. Grail 
seekers, familiar with the Priory's history of cryptic double-talk, had concluded la clef de voûte was 
a literal keystone—an architectural wedge—an engraved, encrypted stone, inserted into a vaulted 
archway in a church. Beneath the sign of the Rose. In architecture, there was no shortage of roses. 
Rose windows. Rosette reliefs. And, of course, an abundance of cinquefoils—the five-petaled 
decorative flowers often found at the top of archways, directly over the keystone. The hiding place 
seemed diabolically simple. The map to the Holy Grail was incorporated high in an archway of 
some forgotten church, mocking the blind churchgoers who wandered beneath it.
 
t be the keystone," Sophie argued. "It
m certain my 
grandfather made this. It can

 
 Langdon replied, feeling a tingle of excitement ripple through him, 

 Sophie's eyes flashed disbelief. 
t 
even know what the Holy Grail is!"
 Langdon realized to his surprise that she was right. He had not yet had a chance to explain to 
Sophie the true nature of the Holy Grail. That story would have to wait. At the moment, they were 
focused on the keystone.
 If that is indeed what this is....
 Against the hum of the bulletproof wheels beneath them, Langdon quickly explained to Sophie 
everything he had heard about the keystone. Allegedly, for centuries, the Priory
s sake, it was 
verbally transferred to each new rising sénéchal at a clandestine ceremony. However, at some point 
during the last century, whisperings began to surface that the Priory policy had changed. Perhaps it 
was on account of new electronic eavesdropping capabilities, but the Priory vowed never again 
even to speak the location of the sacred hiding place.
 "But then how could they pass on the secret?" Sophie asked.
 "That
 Langdon explained. 

 Sophie looked unsettled by this, and Langdon suddenly recalled her mentioning how her 
grandfather used to make treasure hunts for her—preuves de mérite. Admittedly, the keystone was 
a similar concept. Then again, tests like this were extremely common in secret societies. The best 
known was the Masons', wherein members ascended to higher degrees by proving they could keep 
a secret and by performing rituals and various tests of merit over many years. The tasks became 
progressively harder until they culminated in a successful candidate's induction as thirty-second
degree Mason.
 
 Sophie said. 

 Langdon nodded. 
d had experience with this sort of thing."
 "Not only with my grandfather. In cryptology, that
self-authorizing language.
re smart enough to read it, you

 Langdon hesitated a moment. 
s access to it implies he was exceptionally powerful within the Priory of Sion. He 
would have to have been one of the highest four members."
 Sophie sighed. "He was powerful in a secret society. I

 Langdon did a double take. 

 
t supposed to see ten years ago. We haven
 She paused. 


 Langdon could not believe what she had just said. 
s no way you could 
know that!"
"I
 Sophie looked away, her expression as determined as it was pained.
 Langdon sat in stunned silence. Jacques Saunière? Grand Master? Despite the astonishing 
repercussions if it were true, Langdon had the eerie sensation it almost made perfect sense. After 
all, previous Priory Grand Masters had also been distinguished public figures with artistic souls. 
Proof of that fact had been uncovered years ago in Paris's Bibliothèque Nationale in papers that 
became known as Les Dossiers Secrets.
 Every Priory historian and Grail buff had read the Dossiers. Cataloged under Number 4° lm1 249, 
the Dossiers Secrets had been authenticated by many specialists and incontrovertibly confirmed 
what historians had suspected for a long time: Priory Grand Masters included Leonardo da Vinci, 
Botticelli, Sir Isaac Newton, Victor Hugo, and, more recently, Jean Cocteau, the famous Parisian 
artist.
 Why not Jacques Saunière?
 Langdon's incredulity intensified with the realization that he had been slated to meet Saunière 
tonight. The Priory Grand Master called a meeting with me. Why? To make artistic small talk? It 
suddenly seemed unlikely. After all, if Langdon's instincts were correct, the Grand Master of the 
Priory of Sion had just transferred the brotherhood's legendary keystone to his granddaughter and 
simultaneously commanded her to find Robert Langdon.
 Inconceivable!
 Langdon's imagination could conjure no set of circumstances that would explain Saunière's 
behavior. Even if Saunière feared his own death, there were three sénéchaux who also possessed 
the secret and therefore guaranteed the Priory's security. Why would Saunière take such an 
enormous risk giving his granddaughter the keystone, especially when the two of them didn't get 
along? And why involve Langdon... a total stranger?
 A piece of this puzzle is missing, Langdon thought.
 The answers were apparently going to have to wait. The sound of the slowing engine caused them 
both to look up. Gravel crunched beneath the tires. Why is he pulling over already? Langdon 
wondered. Vernet had told them he would take them well outside the city to safety. The truck 
decelerated to a crawl and made its way over unexpectedly rough terrain. Sophie shot Langdon an 
uneasy look, hastily closing the cryptex box and latching it. Langdon slipped his jacket back on.
 When the truck came to a stop, the engine remained idling as the locks on the rear doors began to 
turn. When the doors swung open, Langdon was surprised to see they were parked in a wooded 
area, well off the road. Vernet stepped into view, a strained look in his eye. In his hand, he held a 
pistol.

m sorry about this," he said. "I really have no choice."
 CHAPTER 49
 André Vernet looked awkward with a pistol, but his eyes shone with a determination that Langdon 
sensed would be unwise to test.
 "I
 Vernet said, training the weapon on the two of them in the back of the 
idling truck. 

 Sophie clutched the box to her chest. 

 
s assets," Vernet replied. "And that is exactly what I am 
doing. Now set the box on the floor."
 "My grandfather entrusted this to me!" Sophie declared.
 "Do it," Vernet commanded, raising the gun.
 Sophie set the box at her feet.
 Langdon watched the gun barrel swing now in his direction.
 "Mr. Langdon," Vernet said, "you will bring the box over to me. And be aware that I

 Langdon stared at the banker in disbelief. 

 
 Vernet snapped, his accented English terse now. 
s 
assets."
 "We are your clients now," Sophie said.
 Vernet
Mademoiselle Neveu, I don't know how 
you got that key and account number tonight, but it seems obvious that foul play was involved. 
Had I known the extent of your crimes, I would never have helped you leave the bank.
I told you,
we had nothing to do with my grandfather's death!
And yet the radio claims you are wanted not only for the murder of 
Jacques Saunière but for those of three other men as well?
What!
s eyes dropped to the rosewood box. If the sénéchaux were murdered, 
Saunière had no options. He had to transfer the keystone to someone.
 "The police can sort that out when I turn you in," Vernet said. "I have gotten my bank involved too 
far already."
 Sophie glared at Vernet. "You obviously have no intention of turning us in. You would have driven 
us back to the bank. And instead you bring us out here and hold us at gunpoint?"
 "Your grandfather hired me for one reason—to keep his possessions both safe and private. 
Whatever this box contains, I have no intention of letting it become a piece of cataloged evidence 
in a police investigation. Mr. Langdon, bring me the box."
 Sophie shook her head. "Don

 A gunshot roared, and a bullet tore into the wall above him. The reverberation shook the back of 
the truck as a spent shell clinked onto the cargo floor.
 Shit! Langdon froze.
 Vernet spoke more confidently now. 

 Langdon lifted the box.
 
 Vernet was taking dead aim, standing on the ground behind the rear 
bumper, his gun outstretched into the cargo hold now.
 Box in hand, Langdon moved across the hold toward the open door.
 I've got to do something! Langdon thought. I'm about to hand over the Priory keystone! As 
Langdon moved toward the doorway, his position of higher ground became more pronounced, and 
he began wondering if he could somehow use it to his advantage. Vernet's gun, though raised, was 
at Langdon's knee level. A well-placed kick perhaps? Unfortunately, as Langdon neared, Vernet 
seemed to sense the dangerous dynamic developing, and he took several steps back, repositioning 
himself six feet away. Well out of reach.
 Vernet commanded, 

 Seeing no options, Langdon knelt down and set the rosewood box at the edge of the cargo hold, 
directly in front of the open doors.
 

 Langdon began to stand up but paused, spying the small, spent pistol shell on the floor beside the 
truck's precision-crafted doorsill.
 

 Langdon paused a moment longer, eyeing the metal threshold. Then he stood. As he did, he 
discreetly brushed the shell over the edge onto the narrow ledge that was the door's lower sill. Fully 
upright now, Langdon stepped backward.
 

 Langdon obeyed.
 Vernet could feel his own heart pounding. Aiming the gun with his right hand, he reached now 
with his left for the wooden box. He discovered that it was far too heavy. I need two hands. 
Turning his eyes back to his captives, he calculated the risk. Both were a good fifteen feet away, at 
the far end of the cargo hold, facing away from him. Vernet made up his mind. Quickly, he laid 
down the gun on the bumper, lifted the box with two hands, and set it on the ground, immediately 
grabbing the gun again and aiming it back into the hold. Neither of his prisoners had moved.
 Perfect. Now all that remained was to close and lock the door. Leaving the box on the ground for 
the moment, he grabbed the metal door and began to heave it closed. As the door swung past him, 
Vernet reached up to grab the single bolt that needed to be slid into place. The door closed with a 
thud, and Vernet quickly grabbed the bolt, pulling it to the left. The bolt slid a few inches and 
crunched to an unexpected halt, not lining up with its sleeve. What's going on? Vernet pulled 
again, but the bolt wouldn't lock. The mechanism was not properly aligned. The door isn't fully 
closed! Feeling a surge of panic, Vernet shoved hard against the outside of the door, but it refused 
to budge. Something is blocking it! Vernet turned to throw full shoulder into the door, but this time 
the door exploded outward, striking Vernet in the face and sending him reeling backward onto the 
ground, his nose shattering in pain. The gun flew as Vernet reached for his face and felt the warm 
blood running from his nose.
 Robert Langdon hit the ground somewhere nearby, and Vernet tried to get up, but he couldn't see. 
His vision blurred and he fell backward again. Sophie Neveu was shouting. Moments later, Vernet 
felt a cloud of dirt and exhaust billowing over him. He heard the crunching of tires on gravel and 
sat up just in time to see the truck's wide wheelbase fail to navigate a turn. There was a crash as the 
front bumper clipped a tree. The engine roared, and the tree bent. Finally, it was the bumper that 
gave, tearing half off. The armored car lurched away, its front bumper dragging. When the truck 
reached the paved access road, a shower of sparks lit up the night, trailing the truck as it sped away.
 Vernet turned his eyes back to the ground where the truck had been parked. Even in the faint 
moonlight he could see there was nothing there.
 The wooden box was gone.
 CHAPTER 50
 The unmarked Fiat sedan departing Castel Gandolfo snaked downward through the Alban Hills 
into the valley below. In the back seat, Bishop Aringarosa smiled, feeling the weight of the bearer 
bonds in the briefcase on his lap and wondering how long it would be before he and the Teacher 
could make the exchange.
 Twenty million euro.
 The sum would buy Aringarosa power far more valuable than that.
 As his car sped back toward Rome, Aringarosa again found himself wondering why the Teacher 
had not yet contacted him. Pulling his cell phone from his cassock pocket, he checked the carrier 
signal. Extremely faint.
 
 the driver said, glancing at him in the rearview mirror. 
ll be out of the mountains, and service improves."
 "Thank you." Aringarosa felt a sudden surge of concern. No service in the mountains? Maybe the 
Teacher had been trying to reach him all this time. Maybe something had gone terribly wrong.
 Quickly, Aringarosa checked the phone
s protocols for caution included a refusal to give Aringarosa any kind of 
contact number. I alone will initiate contact, the Teacher had informed him. So keep your phone 
close. Now that Aringarosa realized his phone might not have been working properly, he feared 
what the Teacher might think if he had been repeatedly phoning with no answer.
He
ve got to get off the road, Langdon thought.
 He could barely even see where they were headed. The truck
armored truck
Are you okay?
Do you believe him?
About the three additional murders? Absolutely. It answers a lot of questions—the issue of your 
grandfather's desperation to pass on the keystone, as well as the intensity with which Fache is 
hunting me.
No, I meant about Vernet trying to protect his bank.
As opposed to?
Taking the keystone for himself.
How would he even know what this box contains?
His bank stored it. He knew my grandfather. Maybe he knew things. He might have decided he 
wanted the Grail for himself.
In my experience, there are only two 
reasons people seek the Grail. Either they are naive and believe they are searching for the long-lost 
Cup of Christ...
Or?
Or they know the truth and are threatened by it. Many groups throughout history have sought to 
destroy the Grail.
I'm going to see if I can bend this bumper back.
t very well give the keystone back to 
the brotherhood. Even if Langdon had any idea how to find a Priory member, chances were good 
that whoever stepped forward to take the keystone could be the enemy himself. For the moment, at 
least, it seemed the keystone was in Sophie and Langdon
s front end looked worse than Langdon had imagined. The left headlight was gone, and 
the right one looked like an eyeball dangling from its socket. Langdon straightened it, and it 
dislodged again. The only good news was that the front bumper had been torn almost clean off. 
Langdon gave it a hard kick and sensed he might be able to break it off entirely.
As he repeatedly kicked the twisted metal, Langdon recalled his earlier conversation with Sophie. 
My grandfather left me a phone message, Sophie had told him. He said he needed to tell me the 
truth about my family. At the time it had meant nothing, but now, knowing the Priory of Sion was 
involved, Langdon felt a startling new possibility emerge.
 The bumper broke off suddenly with a crash. Langdon paused to catch his breath. At least the truck 
would no longer look like a Fourth of July sparkler. He grabbed the bumper and began dragging it 
out of sight into the woods, wondering where they should go next. They had no idea how to open 
the cryptex, or why Saunière had given it to them. Unfortunately, their survival tonight seemed to 
depend on getting answers to those very questions.
 We need help, Langdon decided. Professional help.
 In the world of the Holy Grail and the Priory of Sion, that meant only one man. The challenge, of 
course, would be selling the idea to Sophie.
 Inside the armored car, while Sophie waited for Langdon to return, she could feel the weight of the 
rosewood box on her lap and resented it. Why did my grandfather give this to me? She had not the 
slightest idea what to do with it.
 Think, Sophie! Use your head. Grand-père is trying to tell you something!
 Opening the box, she eyed the cryptex
s 
hand at work. The keystone is a map that can be followed only by the worthy. It sounded like her 
grandfather to the core.
 Lifting the cryptex out of the box, Sophie ran her fingers over the dials. Five letters. She rotated the 
dials one by one. The mechanism moved smoothly. She aligned the disks such that her chosen 
letters lined up between the cryptex
t budge. She heard the vinegar inside gurgle and stopped pulling. Then she tried again.
 V-I-N-C-I
 Again, no movement.
 V-O-U-T-E
Nothing. The cryptex remained locked solid.
 Frowning, she replaced it in the rosewood box and closed the lid. Looking outside at Langdon, 
Sophie felt grateful he was with her tonight. P.S. Find Robert Langdon. Her grandfather
s 
intentions, and so he had assigned Robert Langdon as her guide. A tutor to oversee her education. 
Unfortunately for Langdon, he had turned out to be far more than a tutor tonight. He had become 
the target of Bezu Fache... and some unseen force intent on possessing the Holy Grail.
 Whatever the Grail turns out to be.
 Sophie wondered if finding out was worth her life.
 As the armored truck accelerated again, Langdon was pleased how much more smoothly it drove. 
"Do you know how to get to Versailles?"
 Sophie eyed him. "Sightseeing?"
 "No, I have a plan. There
t remember 
exactly where, but we can look it up. I
s a former British Royal Historian."
 "And he lives in Paris?"
 "Teabing
s written some books 
on the keystone and the Grail. He may be able to help us figure out how to open it and what to do 
with it."
 Sophie
Can you trust him?
Trust him to what? Not steal the information?
And not to turn us in.
I don't intend to tell him we're wanted by the police. I'm hoping he'll take us in until we can sort 
all this out.
Robert, has it occurred to you that every television in France is probably getting ready to 
broadcast our pictures? Bezu Fache always uses the media to his advantage. He'll make it 
impossible for us to move around without being recognized.
Paris's Most Wanted.
Is this man a good enough friend?
Teabing could be a powerful ally,
Fache probably will be offering a monetary reward.
Believe me, money is the last thing this guy needs.
s First Duke of 
Lancaster, Teabing had gotten his money the old-fashioned way—he
s hot premise, his research, and his credentials, but they had concerns that 
the concept was so shocking and hard to swallow that the network might end up tarnishing its 
reputation for quality journalism. At Teabing
s Paris estate for the filming. He sat before cameras in 
Teabing
Robert,
you're certain we can trust this man?
Absolutely. We're colleagues, he doesn't need money, and I happen to know he despises the 
French authorities. The French government taxes him at absurd rates because he bought a historic 
landmark. He'll be in no hurry to cooperate with Fache.
If we go to him, how much do you want to tell him?
Believe me, Leigh Teabing knows more about the Priory of Sion 
and the Holy Grail than anyone on earth.
More than my grandfather?
I meant more than anyone outside the brotherhood.
How do you know Teabing isn't a member of the brotherhood?
Teabing has spent his life trying to broadcast the truth about the Holy Grail. The Priory's oath is to 
keep its true nature hidden.
Sounds to me like a conflict of interest.
t know what it contained or what she was supposed to do with it, she was hesitant to 
involve a total stranger. Considering the information potentially enclosed, the instinct was probably 
a good one. "We don
ll 
start to have an idea why your grandfather gave this to you."
 "Us," Sophie reminded.
 Langdon felt a humble pride and wondered yet again why Saunière had included him.
 "Do you know more or less where Mr. Teabing lives?" Sophie asked.
 "His estate is called Château Villette."
 Sophie turned with an incredulous look. "The Château Villette?"
 "That



 

 
ve passed it. It

 Langdon frowned. 

 

 Langdon paused. 
ll tell you at Teabing
ll get the full story." Langdon smiled. "Besides, the Grail has been 
Teabing

 
s hope Leigh doesn

 
s Sir Leigh." Langdon had made that mistake only once. "Teabing is quite a 
character. He was knighted by the Queen several years back after composing an extensive history 
on the House of York."
 Sophie looked over. "You
re going to visit a knight?"
 Langdon gave an awkward smile. "We

 CHAPTER 52
 The Sprawling 185-acre estate of Château Villette was located twenty-five minutes northwest of 
Paris in the environs of Versailles. Designed by François Mansart in 1668 for the Count of Aufflay, 
it was one of Paris's most significant historical châteaux. Complete with two rectangular lakes and 
gardens designed by Le Nôtre, Château Villette was more of a modest castle than a mansion. The 
estate fondly had become known as la Petite Versailles.
 Langdon brought the armored truck to a shuddering stop at the foot of the mile-long driveway. 
Beyond the imposing security gate, Sir Leigh Teabing's residence rose on a meadow in the 
distance. The sign on the gate was in English: PRIVATE PROPERTY. NO TRESPASSING.
 As if to proclaim his home a British Isle unto itself, Teabing had not only posted his signs in 
English, but he had installed his gate's intercom entry system on the right-hand side of the 
truck—the passenger's side everywhere in Europe except England.
 Sophie gave the misplaced intercom an odd look. 

 
t ask." Langdon had already been through that with Teabing. "He prefers things the way they 
are at home."
 Sophie rolled down her window. "Robert, you

 Langdon shifted his position, leaning out across Sophie to press the intercom button. As he did, an 
alluring whiff of Sophie's perfume filled his nostrils, and he realized how close they were. He 
waited there, awkwardly prone, while a telephone began ringing over the small speaker.
 Finally, the intercom crackled and an irritated French accent spoke. 

 
 Langdon called out, sprawled across Sophie's lap. 
m a friend of Sir 
Leigh Teabing. I need his help."
 "My master is sleeping. As was I. What is your business with him?"
 "It is a private matter. One of great interest to him."
 "Then I

 Langdon shifted his weight. 
s quite important."
 "As is Sir Leigh

 Sir Leigh Teabing had suffered from polio as a child and now wore leg braces and walked with 
crutches, but Langdon had found him such a lively and colorful man on his last visit that it hardly 
seemed an infirmity. 

 There was a long pause.
 Langdon and Sophie waited, the truck idling loudly.
 A full minute passed.
 Finally, someone spoke. 
 The 
voice was crisp and light.
Langdon grinned, recognizing the thick British accent. 

 

 

 

 
d open the gate for an old friend?"
 "Those who seek the truth are more than friends. They are brothers."
 Langdon rolled his eyes at Sophie, well accustomed to Teabing
Indeed I will open the gate,
but first I must confirm your heart is true. A 
test of your honor. You will answer three questions.
Bear with me here. As I mentioned, he's something of a 
character.
Your first question,
Shall I serve you coffee, or tea?
s feelings about the American phenomenon of coffee. "Tea," he replied. 
"Earl Grey."
 "Excellent. Your second question. Milk or sugar?"
 Langdon hesitated.
 "Milk," Sophie whispered in his ear. "I think the British take milk."
 "Milk," Langdon said.
 Silence.
 "Sugar?"
 Teabing made no reply.
 Wait! Langdon now recalled the bitter beverage he had been served on his last visit and realized 
this question was a trick. "Lemon!" he declared. "Earl Grey with lemon"
"Indeed." Teabing sounded deeply amused now. "And finally, I must make the most grave of 
inquiries." Teabing paused and then spoke in a solemn tone. "In which year did a Harvard sculler 
last outrow an Oxford man at Henley?"
 Langdon had no idea, but he could imagine only one reason the question had been asked. "Surely 
such a travesty has never occurred."
 The gate clicked open. "Your heart is true, my friend. You may pass."
 CHAPTER 53
 "Monsieur Vernet!" The night manager of the Depository Bank of Zurich felt relieved to hear the 
bank president
Where did you go, sir? The police are here, everyone is 
waiting for you!
I have a little problem,
I need your help right 
away.
How can I help you, sir?
Armored truck number three. I need to find it.
It's here. Downstairs at the loading dock.
Actually, no. The truck was stolen by the two individuals the police are tracking.
What? How did they drive out?
I can't go into the specifics on the phone, but we have a situation here that could potentially be 
extremely unfortunate for the bank.
What do you need me to do, sir?
I'd like you to activate the truck's emergency transponder.
s eyes moved to the LoJack control box across the room. Like many armored 
cars, each of the bank
Sir, you are aware that if I activate the LoJack 
system, the transponder will simultaneously inform the authorities that we have a problem.
Yes, I know. Do it anyway. Truck number three. I'll hold. I 
need the exact location of that truck the instant you have it.
Right away, sir.
No reason to risk being spotted from the road,
Or having Leigh wonder why we arrived 
in a wrecked armored truck.
What do we do with the cryptex? We probably shouldn't leave it out here, but if 
Leigh sees it, he'll certainly want to know what it is.
Not to worry,
Subtle.
Teabing never answers his own door; he prefers to make an entrance. I'll find somewhere inside to 
stash this before he joins us.
Actually, I should probably warn you before you 
meet him. Sir Leigh has a sense of humor that people often find a bit... strange.
Sir Leigh will be down presently,
He is dressing. He 
prefers not to greet visitors while wearing only a nightshirt. May I take your coat?
s arms.
 "Thank you, I

 

 The butler guided them through a lush marble foyer into an exquisitely adorned drawing room, 
softly lit by tassel-draped Victorian lamps. The air inside smelled antediluvian, regal somehow, 
with traces of pipe tobacco, tea leaves, cooking sherry, and the earthen aroma of stone architecture. 
Against the far wall, flanked between two glistening suits of chain mail armor, was a rough-hewn 
fireplace large enough to roast an ox. Walking to the hearth, the butler knelt and touched a match to 
a pre-laid arrangement of oak logs and kindling. A fire quickly crackled to life.
 The man stood, straightening his jacket. 
 
With that, he departed, leaving Langdon and Sophie alone.
 Sophie wondered which of the fireside antiques she was supposed to sit on—the Renaissance 
velvet divan, the rustic eagle-claw rocker, or the pair of stone pews that looked like they'd been 
lifted from some Byzantine temple.
 Langdon unwrapped the cryptex from his coat, walked to the velvet divan, and slid the wooden box 
deep underneath it, well out of sight. Then, shaking out his jacket, he put it back on, smoothed the 
lapels, and smiled at Sophie as he sat down directly over the stashed treasure.
 The divan it is, Sophie thought, taking a seat beside him.
 As she stared into the growing fire, enjoying the warmth, Sophie had the sensation that her 
grandfather would have loved this room. The dark wood paneling was bedecked with Old Master 
paintings, one of which Sophie recognized as a Poussin, her grandfather's second-favorite painter. 
On the mantel above the fireplace, an alabaster bust of Isis watched over the room.
 Beneath the Egyptian goddess, inside the fireplace, two stone gargoyles served as andirons, their 
mouths gaping to reveal their menacing hollow throats. Gargoyles had always terrified Sophie as a 
child; that was, until her grandfather cured her of the fear by taking her atop Notre Dame Cathedral 
in a rainstorm. 
 he had told her, pointing to the gargoyle 
rainspouts with their mouths gushing water. 
 
Sophie nodded, having to smile at the burping sound of the water gurgling through their throats. 

re gargling," her grandfather told her. "Gargariser! And that
gargoyles.
 Sophie had never again been afraid.
 The fond memory caused Sophie a pang of sadness as the harsh reality of the murder gripped her 
again. Grand-père is gone. She pictured the cryptex under the divan and wondered if Leigh 
Teabing would have any idea how to open it. Or if we even should ask him. Sophie's grandfather's 
final words had instructed her to find Robert Langdon. He had said nothing about involving anyone 
else. We needed somewhere to hide, Sophie said, deciding to trust Robert's judgment.
 
 a voice bellowed somewhere behind them. 

 Langdon stood up. Sophie jumped to her feet as well. The voice had come from the top of a curled 
staircase that snaked up to the shadows of the second floor. At the top of the stairs, a form moved 
in the shadows, only his silhouette visible.
 
 Langdon called up. 

 
 Teabing moved into the light.
 
 Sophie said, now seeing the man wore metal leg braces and used 
crutches. He was coming down one stair at a time. 
s quite late."
 "It is so late, my dear, it
 He laughed. 
êtes pas Américaine?"
 Sophie shook her head. "Parisienne."
 "Your English is superb."
 "Thank you. I studied at the Royal Holloway."
 "So then, that explains it." Teabing hobbled lower through the shadows. "Perhaps Robert told you I 
schooled just down the road at Oxford." Teabing fixed Langdon with a devilish smile. "Of course, I 
also applied to Harvard as my safety school."
Their host arrived at the bottom of the stairs, appearing to Sophie no more like a knight than Sir 
Elton John. Portly and ruby-faced, Sir Leigh Teabing had bushy red hair and jovial hazel eyes that 
seemed to twinkle as he spoke. He wore pleated pants and a roomy silk shirt under a paisley vest. 
Despite the aluminum braces on his legs, he carried himself with a resilient, vertical dignity that 
seemed more a by-product of noble ancestry than any kind of conscious effort.
 Teabing arrived and extended a hand to Langdon. "Robert, you

 Langdon grinned. 
ve found some."
 Teabing laughed heartily, patting his rotund belly. "Touché. My only carnal pleasures these days 
seem to be culinary." Turning now to Sophie, he gently took her hand, bowing his head slightly, 
breathing lightly on her fingers, and diverting his eyes. "M

 Sophie glanced at Langdon, uncertain whether she'd stepped back in time or into a nuthouse.
 The butler who had answered the door now entered carrying a tea service, which he arranged on a 
table in front of the fireplace.
 
 Teabing said, 

 The slender butler gave a stiff nod and disappeared yet again.
 
 Teabing whispered, as if it were an unfortunate disease. 

 Langdon looked amused. 
d import an English staff?"
 "Good heavens, no! I would not wish a British chef on anyone except the French tax collectors." 
He glanced over at Sophie. "Pardonnez-moi, Mademoiselle Neveu. Please be assured that my 
distaste for the French extends only to politics and the soccer pitch. Your government steals my 
money, and your football squad recently humiliated us."
 Sophie offered an easy smile.
 Teabing eyed her a moment and then looked at Langdon. "Something has happened. You both look 
shaken."
 Langdon nodded. "We

 

A little of both, Sophie thought, picturing the cryptex hidden beneath the couch.
 
 Langdon said, 
d like to talk to you about the Priory of Sion."
 Teabing
The keepers. So this is indeed about the Grail. 
You say you come with information? Something new, Robert?
Perhaps. We're not quite sure. We might have a better idea if we could get some information from 
you first.
Ever the wily American. A game of quid pro quo. Very well. I am at 
your service. What is it I can tell you?
I was hoping you would be kind enough to explain to Ms. Neveu the true nature 
of the Holy Grail.
She doesn't know?
s face was almost obscene. "Robert, you

 Langdon winced, glancing at Sophie. 

 Teabing turned eagerly to Sophie. 

 Sophie quickly outlined what Langdon had explained earlier—the Priory of Sion, the Knights 
Templar, the Sangreal documents, and the Holy Grail, which many claimed was not a cup... but 
rather something far more powerful.
 
s all?" Teabing fired Langdon a scandalous look. "Robert, I thought you were a gentleman. 
You

 
 Langdon apparently decided the unseemly metaphor 
had gone far enough.
 Teabing already had Sophie locked in his twinkling gaze. 

CHAPTER 55
 Seated on the divan beside Langdon, Sophie drank her tea and ate a scone, feeling the welcome 
effects of caffeine and food. Sir Leigh Teabing was beaming as he awkwardly paced before the 
open fire, his leg braces clicking on the stone hearth.
 
 Teabing said, his voice sermonic. 
 He turned and looked directly at Sophie. 

 Sophie sensed a rising air of academic anticipation now in both of her male companions.
 
 Teabing continued, 

 Sophie shrugged. 

 Teabing looked both startled and pleased. 

 

 
s views on the New Testament?"
 "I have no idea."
 Teabing
Robert, would 
you mind? On the bottom shelf. La Storia di Leonardo.
From Da Vinci's notebook on polemics and 
speculation,
I think you'll find this relevant to 
our discussion.
Here's another,
Da Vinci is talking about the Bible?
Leonardo's feelings about the Bible relate directly to the Holy Grail. In fact, Da 
Vinci painted the true Grail, which I will show you momentarily, but first we must speak of the 
Bible.
And everything you need to know about the Bible can be summed up by 
the great canon doctor Martyn Percy.
The Bible did not 
arrive by fax from heaven.
I beg your pardon?
The Bible is a product of man, my dear. Not of God. The Bible did not fall magically from the 
clouds. Man created it as a historical record of tumultuous times, and it has evolved through 
countless translations, additions, and revisions. History has never had a definitive version of the 
book.
Okay.
Jesus Christ was a historical figure of staggering influence, perhaps the most enigmatic and 
inspirational leader the world has ever seen. As the prophesied Messiah, Jesus toppled kings, 
inspired millions, and founded new philosophies. As a descendant of the lines of King Solomon 
and King David, Jesus possessed a rightful claim to the throne of the King of the Jews. 
Understandably, His life was recorded by thousands of followers across the land.
More than eighty gospels were 
considered for the New Testament, and yet only a relative few were chosen for 
inclusion—Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John among them.
 
 Sophie asked.
 
 Teabing burst in with enthusiasm. 

 
 Sophie said.
 
 Teabing scoffed. 
s day, Rome
s 
followers had multiplied exponentially. Christians and pagans began warring, and the conflict grew 
to such proportions that it threatened to rend Rome in two. Constantine decided something had to 
be done. In 325 A.D., he decided to unify Rome under a single religion. Christianity."
 Sophie was surprised. "Why would a pagan emperor choose Christianity as the official religion?"
 Teabing chuckled. "Constantine was a very good businessman. He could see that Christianity was 
on the rise, and he simply backed the winning horse. Historians still marvel at the brilliance with 
which Constantine converted the sun-worshipping pagans to Christianity. By fusing pagan 
symbols, dates, and rituals into the growing Christian tradition, he created a kind of hybrid religion 
that was acceptable to both parties."
 "Transmogrification," Langdon said. "The vestiges of pagan religion in Christian symbology are 
undeniable. Egyptian sun disks became the halos of Catholic saints. Pictograms of Isis nursing her 
miraculously conceived son Horus became the blueprint for our modern images of the Virgin Mary 
nursing Baby Jesus. And virtually all the elements of the Catholic ritual—the miter, the altar, the 
doxology, and communion, the act of "God-eating"—were taken directly from earlier pagan 
mystery religions."
 Teabing groaned. "Don
s weekly holy day was stolen from 
the pagans."
 "What do you mean?"
 "Originally," Langdon said, "Christianity honored the Jewish Sabbath of Saturday, but Constantine 
shifted it to coincide with the pagan
 He paused, grinning. 
s weekly tribute—Sunday."
 Sophie
And all of this relates to the Grail?
Indeed,
Stay with me. During this fusion of religions, Constantine needed to 
strengthen the new Christian tradition, and held a famous ecumenical gathering known as the 
Council of Nicaea.
At this gathering,
many aspects of Christianity were debated and voted upon—the 
date of Easter, the role of the bishops, the administration of sacraments, and, of course, the divinity 
of Jesus.
I don't follow. His divinity?
My dear,
until that moment in history, Jesus was viewed by His followers as 
a mortal prophet... a great and powerful man, but a man nonetheless. A mortal.
Not the Son of God?
Right,
Jesus' establishment as 'the Son of God' was officially proposed and voted 
on by the Council of Nicaea.
Hold on. You're saying Jesus' divinity was the result of a vote?
A relatively close vote at that,
Nonetheless, establishing Christ's divinity was 
critical to the further unification of the Roman empire and to the new Vatican power base. By 
officially endorsing Jesus as the Son of God, Constantine turned Jesus into a deity who existed 
beyond the scope of the human world, an entity whose power was unchallengeable. This not only 
precluded further pagan challenges to Christianity, but now the followers of Christ were able to 
redeem themselves only via the established sacred channel—the Roman Catholic Church.
It was all about power,
Christ as Messiah was critical to the functioning of 
Church and state. Many scholars claim that the early Church literally stole Jesus from His original 
followers, hijacking His human message, shrouding it in an impenetrable cloak of divinity, and 
using it to expand their own power. I've written several books on the topic.
And I assume devout Christians send you hate mail on a daily basis?
Why would they?
The vast majority of educated Christians know the history 
of their faith. Jesus was indeed a great and powerful man. Constantine's underhanded political 
maneuvers don't diminish the majesty of Christ's life. Nobody is saying Christ was a fraud, or 
denying that He walked the earth and inspired millions to better lives. All we are saying is that 
Constantine took advantage of Christ's substantial influence and importance. And in doing so, he 
shaped the face of Christianity as we know it today.
The twist is this,
Because Constantine upgraded Jesus' status 
almost four centuries after Jesus' death, thousands of documents already existed chronicling His 
life as a mortal man. To rewrite the history books, Constantine knew he would need a bold stroke. 
From this sprang the most profound moment in Christian history.
Constantine commissioned and financed a new Bible, which omitted those gospels that spoke of 
Christ's human traits and embellished those gospels that made Him godlike. The earlier gospels 
were outlawed, gathered up, and burned.
An interesting note,
Anyone who chose the forbidden gospels over 
Constantine's version was deemed a heretic. The word heretic derives from that moment in history. 
The Latin word haereticus means 'choice.' Those who 'chose' the original history of Christ were the 
world's first heretics.
Fortunately for historians,
some of the gospels that Constantine attempted to 
eradicate managed to survive. The Dead Sea Scrolls were found in the 1950s hidden in a cave near 
Qumran in the Judean desert. And, of course, the Coptic Scrolls in 1945 at Nag Hammadi. In 
addition to telling the true Grail story, these documents speak of Christ's ministry in very human 
terms. Of course, the Vatican, in keeping with their tradition of misinformation, tried very hard to 
suppress the release of these scrolls. And why wouldn't they? The scrolls highlight glaring 
historical discrepancies and fabrications, clearly confirming that the modern Bible was compiled 
and edited by men who possessed a political agenda—to promote the divinity of the man Jesus 
Christ and use His influence to solidify their own power base.
And yet,
it's important to remember that the modern Church's desire to 
suppress these documents comes from a sincere belief in their established view of Christ. The 
Vatican is made up of deeply pious men who truly believe these contrary documents could only be 
false testimony.
As you can see, our professor 
has a far softer heart for Rome than I do. Nonetheless, he is correct about the modern clergy 
believing these opposing documents are false testimony. That's understandable. Constantine's Bible 
has been their truth for ages. Nobody is more indoctrinated than the indoctrinator.
What he means,
is that we worship the gods of our fathers.
What I mean,
is that almost everything our fathers taught us about Christ is 
false. As are the stories about the Holy Grail.
And finally, before I show you Da 
Vinci's paintings of the Holy Grail, I'd like you to take a quick look at this.
I assume you recognize this fresco?
s kidding, right? Sophie was staring at the most famous fresco of all time—The Last 
Supper—Da Vinci
I know the fresco, yes.
Then perhaps you would indulge me this little game? Close your eyes if you would.
Where is Jesus sitting?
In the center.
Good. And what food are He and His disciples breaking and eating?
Bread.
Superb. And what drink?
Wine. They drank wine.
Great. And one final question. How many wineglasses are on the table?
One cup,
The chalice.
Jesus passed a single chalice of wine, just as modern Christians do at communion.
Open your eyes.
s eyes twinkled. "A bit strange, don

 

 

Sophie scanned the work eagerly. 

 
 Teabing whispered. 

 CHAPTER 56
 Sophie stared at Teabing a long moment and then turned to Langdon. 

 Langdon nodded. 
 From the blank look on Sophie's face, Langdon could tell 
they had already lost her. He recalled having a similar reaction the first time he heard the 
statement. It was not until he understood the symbology behind the Grail that the feminine 
connection became clear.
 Teabing apparently had a similar thought. 
 He went to a nearby end table, found a piece of paper, and laid it in front of Langdon.
 Langdon pulled a pen from his pocket. 
 He drew the common male symbol  and female symbol .
 
 she said.
 
 he said quietly, 
 
Langdon drew another icon on the paper.
 
 he told her. 

 
 Sophie said.
 
 Teabing added.
 Langdon went on. 


 Teabing grinned. 

 Langdon winced. 
 He 
drew another symbol on the page. 

 Sophie glanced up, looking surprised.
 Langdon could see she had made the connection. 
 he said, 
s womb. This symbol 
communicates femininity, womanhood, and fertility." Langdon looked directly at her now. 
"Sophie, legend tells us the Holy Grail is a chalice—a cup. But the Grail

 
 Sophie said.
 
 Langdon smiled. 
original sin,

 
 Teabing chimed, 
s creative power by ignoring biological truth and making man the Creator. 
Genesis tells us that Eve was created from Adam

 
 Langdon said, 
searching for the 
chalice

 Sophie shook her head. 
m sorry, when you said the Holy Grail was a person, I thought you 
meant it was an actual person."
"It is," Langdon said.
 "And not just any person," Teabing blurted, clambering excitedly to his feet. "A woman who 
carried with her a secret so powerful that, if revealed, it threatened to devastate the very foundation 
of Christianity!"
 Sophie looked overwhelmed. "Is this woman well known in history?"
 "Quite." Teabing collected his crutches and motioned down the hall. "And if we adjourn to the 
study, my friends, it would be my honor to show you Da Vinci

 Two rooms away, in the kitchen, manservant Rémy Legaludec stood in silence before a television. 
The news station was broadcasting photos of a man and woman... the same two individuals to 
whom Rémy had just served tea.
 CHAPTER 57
 Standing at the roadblock outside the Depository Bank of Zurich, Lieutenant Collet wondered what 
was taking Fache so long to come up with the search warrant. The bankers were obviously hiding 
something. They claimed Langdon and Neveu had arrived earlier and were turned away from the 
bank because they did not have proper account identification.
 So why won't they let us inside for a look?
 Finally, Collet's cellular phone rang. It was the command post at the Louvre. 
 Collet demanded.
 
 the agent told him. 

 Collet sat down hard on the hood of his car. 
re kidding."
 "I have an address in the suburbs. Somewhere near Versailles."
 "Does Captain Fache know?"
 "Not yet. He


m on my way. Have him call as soon as he
 Collet took down the address and jumped in 
his car. As he peeled away from the bank, Collet realized he had forgotten to ask who had tipped 
DCPJ off to Langdon's location. Not that it mattered. Collet had been blessed with a chance to 
redeem his skepticism and earlier blunders. He was about to make the most high-profile arrest of 
his career.
 Collet radioed the five cars accompanying him. 
t know we

 Forty kilometers away, a black Audi pulled off a rural road and parked in the shadows on the edge 
of a field. Silas got out and peered through the rungs of the wrought-iron fence that encircled the 
vast compound before him. He gazed up the long moonlit slope to the château in the distance.
 The downstairs lights were all ablaze. Odd for this hour, Silas thought, smiling. The information 
the Teacher had given him was obviously accurate. I will not leave this house without the keystone, 
he vowed. I will not fail the bishop and the Teacher.
 Checking the thirteen-round clip in his Heckler Koch, Silas pushed it through the bars and let it fall 
onto the mossy ground inside the compound. Then, gripping the top of the fence, he heaved 
himself up and over, dropping to the ground on the other side. Ignoring the slash of pain from his 
cilice, Silas retrieved his gun and began the long trek up the grassy slope.
 CHAPTER 58
 Teabing's 
 was like no study Sophie had ever seen. Six or seven times larger than even the 
most luxurious of office spaces, the knight's cabinet de travail resembled an ungainly hybrid of 
science laboratory, archival library, and indoor flea market. Lit by three overhead chandeliers, the 
boundless tile floor was dotted with clustered islands of worktables buried beneath books, artwork, 
artifacts, and a surprising amount of electronic gear—computers, projectors, microscopes, copy 
machines, and flatbed scanners.
 
 Teabing said, looking sheepish as he shuffled into the room. 

 Sophie felt as if the entire night had become some kind of twilight zone where nothing was as she 
expected. 

 
s love," Teabing said. "And the Sangreal is my favorite 
mistress."
The Holy Grail is a woman, Sophie thought, her mind a collage of interrelated ideas that seemed to 
make no sense. "You said you have a picture of this woman who you claim is the Holy Grail."
 "Yes, but it is not I who claim she is the Grail. Christ Himself made that claim."
 "Which one is the painting?" Sophie asked, scanning the walls.
 "Hmmm..." Teabing made a show of seeming to have forgotten. "The Holy Grail. The Sangreal. 
The Chalice." He wheeled suddenly and pointed to the far wall. On it hung an eight-foot-long print 
of The Last Supper, the same exact image Sophie had just been looking at. "There she is!"
 Sophie was certain she had missed something. "That

 He winked. 
t you think?"
 Sophie turned to Langdon for help. "I

 Langdon smiled. 

 
 Sophie said. 

 
 Teabing arched his eyebrows. 

 Uncertain, Sophie made her way closer to the painting, scanning the thirteen figures—Jesus Christ 
in the middle, six disciples on His left, and six on His right. 
re all men," she confirmed.
 "Oh?" Teabing said. "How about the one seated in the place of honor, at the right hand of the 
Lord?"
 Sophie examined the figure to Jesus
s face 
and body, a wave of astonishment rose within her. The individual had flowing red hair, delicate 
folded hands, and the hint of a bosom. It was, without a doubt... female.
 "That
 Sophie exclaimed.
 Teabing was laughing. 
s no mistake. Leonardo was skilled at 
painting the difference between the sexes."
 Sophie could not take her eyes from the woman beside Christ. The Last Supper is supposed to be 
thirteen men. Who is this woman? Although Sophie had seen this classic image many times, she 
had not once noticed this glaring discrepancy.
 "Everyone misses it," Teabing said. "Our preconceived notions of this scene are so powerful that 
our mind blocks out the incongruity and overrides our eyes."
 "It
 Langdon added. 

 
 Teabing said, 
s original layer of paint." He motioned to the 
photograph. "Et voilà!"
 Sophie moved closer to the image. The woman to Jesus
Who is she?
That, my dear,
is Mary Magdalene.
The prostitute?
Magdalene was no such 
thing. That unfortunate misconception is the legacy of a smear campaign launched by the early 
Church. The Church needed to defame Mary Magdalene in order to cover up her dangerous 
secret—her role as the Holy Grail.
Her role?
As I mentioned,
the early Church needed to convince the world that the 
mortal prophet Jesus was a divine being. Therefore, any gospels that described earthly aspects of 
Jesus' life had to be omitted from the Bible. Unfortunately for the early editors, one particularly 
troubling earthly theme kept recurring in the gospels. Mary Magdalene.
More 
specifically, her marriage to Jesus Christ.
I beg your pardon?
s eyes moved to Langdon and then back to Teabing.
 "It
 Teabing said, 

 Sophie glanced back to the fresco.

 Teabing pointed to 
the two individuals in the center of the fresco.
 Sophie was mesmerized. Sure enough, their clothes were inverse colors. Jesus wore a red robe and 
blue cloak; Mary Magdalene wore a blue robe and red cloak. Yin and yang.
 
 Teabing said, 

 Even before Teabing traced the contour for her, Sophie saw it—the indisputable V shape at the 
focal point of the painting. It was the same symbol Langdon had drawn earlier for the Grail, the 
chalice, and the female womb.
 
 Teabing said, 
 He paused. 

 Sophie saw it at once. To say the letter leapt out at her was an understatement. The letter was 
suddenly all Sophie could see. Glaring in the center of the painting was the unquestionable outline 
of an enormous, flawlessly formed letter M.
 
t you say?" Teabing asked.
 Sophie was amazed. "Why is it there?"
 Teabing shrugged. "Conspiracy theorists will tell you it stands for Matrimonio or Mary Magdalene. 
To be honest, nobody is certain. The only certainty is that the hidden M is no mistake. Countless 
Grail-related works contain the hidden letter M—whether as watermarks, underpaintings, or 
compositional allusions. The most blatant M, of course, is emblazoned on the altar at Our Lady of 
Paris in London, which was designed by a former Grand Master of the Priory of Sion, Jean 
Cocteau."
 Sophie weighed the information. "I
s are intriguing, although I assume 
nobody is claiming they are proof of Jesus

 
 Teabing said, going to a nearby table of books. 
 He began pawing through his book 
collection. 

 
 Sophie asked.

 Langdon said, taking over while Teabing searched for his book, 
s gospels would have 
mentioned it and offered some explanation for His unnatural state of bachelorhood."
 Teabing located a huge book and pulled it toward him across the table. The leather-bound edition 
was poster-sized, like a huge atlas. The cover read: The Gnostic Gospels. Teabing heaved it open, 
and Langdon and Sophie joined him. Sophie could see it contained photographs of what appeared 
to be magnified passages of ancient documents—tattered papyrus with handwritten text. She did 
not recognize the ancient language, but the facing pages bore typed translations.
 "These are photocopies of the Nag Hammadi and Dead Sea scrolls, which I mentioned earlier," 
Teabing said. "The earliest Christian records. Troublingly, they do not match up with the gospels in 
the Bible." Flipping toward the middle of the book, Teabing pointed to a passage. "The Gospel of 
Philip is always a good place to start." Sophie read the passage:
 And the companion of the Saviour is Mary Magdalene. Christ loved her more than 
all the disciples and used to kiss her often on her mouth. The rest of the disciples 
were offended by it and expressed disapproval. They said to him, "Why do you love 
her more than all of us?"
 The words surprised Sophie, and yet they hardly seemed conclusive. "It says nothing of marriage."
 "Au contraire." Teabing smiled, pointing to the first line. "As any Aramaic scholar will tell you, 
the word companion, in those days, literally meant spouse."
 Langdon concurred with a nod.
 Sophie read the first line again. And the companion of the Saviour is Mary Magdalene.
 Teabing flipped through the book and pointed out several other passages that, to Sophie
s door when she was a 
schoolgirl.
 "Is this the home of Jacques Saunière?" the priest had demanded, glaring down at young Sophie 
when she pulled open the door. "I want to talk to him about this editorial he wrote." The priest held 
up a newspaper.
 Sophie summoned her grandfather, and the two men disappeared into his study and closed the 
door. My grandfather wrote something in the paper? Sophie immediately ran to the kitchen and 
flipped through that morning
s name on an article on the second 
page. She read it. Sophie didn
s article said the Church was arrogant and wrong to ban it.
 No wonder the priest is mad, Sophie thought.
 "It
 the priest yelled, emerging from the study and storming to the front 
door. 
 The priest slammed the door on his way out.
 When her grandfather came into the kitchen, he saw Sophie with the paper and frowned. 
re 
quick."
 Sophie said, "You think Jesus Christ had a girlfriend?"
 "No, dear, I said the Church should not be allowed to tell us what notions we can and can

 

 Her grandfather was silent for several moments. 

 Sophie considered it and then shrugged. 
t mind."
 Sir Leigh Teabing was still talking. "I shan
s union. That has been explored ad nauseum by modern historians. I would, however, 
like to point out the following." He motioned to another passage. "This is from the Gospel of Mary 
Magdalene."
 Sophie had not known a gospel existed in Magdalene
Did the Saviour really speak with a woman without our knowledge? 
Are we to turn about and all listen to her? Did he prefer her to us?
Peter, you have always been hot-tempered. Now I see you 
contending against the woman like an adversary. If the Saviour made her worthy, 
who are you indeed to reject her? Surely the Saviour knows her very well. That is 
why he loved her more than us.
The woman they are speaking of,
is Mary Magdalene. Peter is jealous of 
her.
Because Jesus preferred Mary?
Not only that. The stakes were far greater than mere affection. At this point in the gospels, Jesus 
suspects He will soon be captured and crucified. So He gives Mary Magdalene instructions on how 
to carry on His Church after He is gone. As a result, Peter expresses his discontent over playing 
second fiddle to a woman. I daresay Peter was something of a sexist.
This is Saint Peter. The rock on which Jesus built His Church.
The same, except for one catch. According to these unaltered gospels, it was not Peter to whom 
Christ gave directions with which to establish the Christian Church. It was Mary Magdalene.
You're saying the Christian Church was to be carried on by a woman?
That was the plan. Jesus was the original feminist. He intended for the future of His Church to be 
in the hands of Mary Magdalene.
And Peter had a problem with that,
That's Peter 
there. You can see that Da Vinci was well aware of how Peter felt about Mary Magdalene.
And here too,
A bit ominous, 
no?
Is that hand wielding a 
dagger?
Yes. Stranger still, if you count the arms, you'll see that this hand belongs to... no one at all. It's 
disembodied. Anonymous.
I'm sorry, I still don't understand how all of this makes 
Mary Magdalene the Holy Grail.
Aha!
Therein lies the rub!
Few people realize 
that Mary Magdalene, in addition to being Christ's right hand, was a powerful woman already.
Mary Magdalene is here,
She was of the House of Benjamin?
Indeed,
Mary Magdalene was of royal descent.
But I was under the impression Magdalene was poor.
Magdalene was recast as a whore in order to erase evidence of her 
powerful family ties.
But why would the early Church care if Magdalene had royal blood?
My dear child, it was not Mary Magdalene's royal blood that concerned the 
Church so much as it was her consorting with Christ, who also had royal blood. As you know, the 
Book of Matthew tells us that Jesus was of the House of David. A descendant of King 
Solomon—King of the Jews. By marrying into the powerful House of Benjamin, Jesus fused two 
royal bloodlines, creating a potent political union with the potential of making a legitimate claim to 
the throne and restoring the line of kings as it was under Solomon.
The legend of the Holy Grail is a legend about royal blood. When 
Grail legend speaks of 'the chalice that held the blood of Christ'... it speaks, in fact, of Mary 
Magdalene—the female womb that carried Jesus' royal bloodline.
s 
mind. Mary Magdalene carried the royal bloodline of Jesus Christ? "But how could Christ have a 
bloodline unless...?" She paused and looked at Langdon.
 Langdon smiled softly. "Unless they had a child."
 Sophie stood transfixed.
 "Behold," Teabing proclaimed, "the greatest cover-up in human history. Not only was Jesus Christ 
married, but He was a father. My dear, Mary Magdalene was the Holy Vessel. She was the chalice 
that bore the royal bloodline of Jesus Christ. She was the womb that bore the lineage, and the vine 
from which the sacred fruit sprang forth!"
Sophie felt the hairs stand up on her arms. "But how could a secret that big be kept quiet all of 
these years?"
 "Heavens!" Teabing said. "It has been anything but quiet! The royal bloodline of Jesus Christ is the 
source of the most enduring legend of all time—the Holy Grail. Magdalene

 
 Sophie said. 

 

 

 
 Teabing said. 
 Teabing wrote on a piece 
of scrap paper and handed it to her.
 She read what he had written.
 Sang Real
 Instantly, Sophie recognized the translation. Sang Real literally meant Royal Blood.
 CHAPTER 59
 The male receptionist in the lobby of the Opus Dei headquarters on Lexington Avenue in New 
York City was surprised to hear Bishop Aringarosa's voice on the line. 

 
 the bishop demanded, sounding unusually anxious.
 
m very glad you called in. I couldn

 
 He sounded relieved by the news. 

 
 The operator relayed the number.

s France, am I right?"
 "Yes, sir. Paris. The caller said it was critical you contact him immediately."
 "Thank you. I have been waiting for that call." Aringarosa quickly severed the connection.
 As the receptionist hung up the receiver, he wondered why Aringarosa
s daily schedule showed him in New York this weekend, and yet he 
sounded a world away. The receptionist shrugged it off. Bishop Aringarosa had been acting very 
strangely the last few months.
 My cellular phone must not have been receiving, Aringarosa thought as the Fiat approached the 
exit for Rome
s concern at having missed the call, he felt encouraged that the Teacher felt confident 
enough to call Opus Dei headquarters directly.
 Things must have gone well in Paris tonight.
 As Aringarosa began dialing the number, he felt excited to know he would soon be in Paris. I
Direction Centrale Police Judidaire.
Ah, yes... I was asked to call this number?
Qui êtes-vous?
Your name?
Your name, monsieur?
Bishop Manuel Aringarosa.
Un moment.
Bishop, I am glad I finally 
reached you. You and I have much to discuss.
As you can see, my dear,
Leonardo is not the only 
one who has been trying to tell the world the truth about the Holy Grail. The royal bloodline of 
Jesus Christ has been chronicled in exhaustive detail by scores of historians.
Here is perhaps the best-known tome,
An international bestseller? I've never heard of it.
You were young. This caused quite a stir back in the nineteen eighties. To my taste, the authors 
made some dubious leaps of faith in their analysis, but their fundamental premise is sound, and to 
their credit, they finally brought the idea of Christ's bloodline into the mainstream.
What was the Church's reaction to the book?
Outrage, of course. But that was to be expected. After all, this was a secret the Vatican had tried to 
bury in the fourth century. That's part of what the Crusades were about. Gathering and destroying 
information. The threat Mary Magdalene posed to the men of the early Church was potentially 
ruinous. Not only was she the woman to whom Jesus had assigned the task of founding the Church, 
but she also had physical proof that the Church's newly proclaimed deity had spawned a mortal 
bloodline. The Church, in order to defend itself against the Magdalene's power, perpetuated her 
image as a whore and buried evidence of Christ's marriage to her, thereby defusing any potential 
claims that Christ had a surviving bloodline and was a mortal prophet.
Sophie, the historical evidence supporting this is 
substantial.
I admit,
the assertions are dire, but you must understand the Church's powerful 
motivations to conduct such a cover-up. They could never have survived public knowledge of a 
bloodline. A child of Jesus would undermine the critical notion of Christ's divinity and therefore 
the Christian Church, which declared itself the sole vessel through which humanity could access 
the divine and gain entrance to the kingdom of heaven.
The five-petal rose,
s books. The 
same exact design inlaid on the rosewood box.
 Teabing glanced at Langdon and grinned. "She has a good eye." He turned back to Sophie. "That is 
the Priory symbol for the Grail. Mary Magdalene. Because her name was forbidden by the Church, 
Mary Magdalene became secretly known by many pseudonyms—the Chalice, the Holy Grail, and 
the Rose." He paused. "The Rose has ties to the five-pointed pentacle of Venus and the guiding 
Compass Rose. By the way, the word rose is identical in English, French, German, and many other 
languages."
 "Rose," Langdon added, "is also an anagram of Eros, the Greek god of sexual love."
 Sophie gave him a surprised look as Teabing plowed on.
 "The Rose has always been the premiere symbol of female sexuality. In primitive goddess cults, 
the five petals represented the five stations of female life—birth, menstruation, motherhood, 
menopause, and death. And in modern times, the flowering rose
 He glanced at Robert. 

 Robert hesitated. A moment too long.
 
 Teabing huffed. 
 He looked back at Sophie. 

ve ever seen 
any paintings by Georgia O
ll know exactly what I mean."
 "The point here," Langdon said, motioning back to the bookshelf, "is that all of these books 
substantiate the same historical claim."
 "That Jesus was a father." Sophie was still uncertain.
 "Yes," Teabing said. "And that Mary Magdalene was the womb that carried His royal lineage. The 
Priory of Sion, to this day, still worships Mary Magdalene as the Goddess, the Holy Grail, the 
Rose, and the Divine Mother."
 Sophie again flashed on the ritual in the basement.
 "According to the Priory," Teabing continued, "Mary Magdalene was pregnant at the time of the 
crucifixion. For the safety of Christ
 trusted uncle, Joseph of Arimathea, Mary Magdalene secretly traveled to 
France, then known as Gaul. There she found safe refuge in the Jewish community. It was here in 
France that she gave birth to a daughter. Her name was Sarah."
 Sophie glanced up. "They actually know the child

 
s and Sarah
s child belonged to the lineage of Jewish kings—David and 
Solomon. For this reason, the Jews in France considered Magdalene sacred royalty and revered her 
as the progenitor of the royal line of kings. Countless scholars of that era chronicled Mary 
Magdalene

 Sophie was startled. 

 

 
s bloodline?" Sophie asked. "It

 Teabing chuckled. 

 

 
What is history, but a fable agreed upon?
 
He smiled. 

 Sophie had never thought of it that way.
 
Q
 
teachings, possibly written in His own hand."
 "Writings by Christ Himself?"
 "Of course," Teabing said. "Why wouldn
s personal account of her relationship with 
Christ, His crucifixion, and her time in France."
 Sophie was silent for a long moment. "And these four chests of documents were the treasure that 
the Knights Templar found under Solomon

 

 

 Teabing eyed her, his expression softening. 

 Outside, the wind howled in the trees.
 Teabing spoke more quietly now. 

 Sophie felt an unexpected wonder. 

 Teabing's hazel eyes got misty. 
s rightful 
claim to power."
 Sophie waited a moment as Teabing gathered himself. So much about her grandfather was still not 
making sense. "Members of the Priory," she finally said, "all these years have answered the charge 
of protecting the Sangreal documents and the tomb of Mary Magdalene?"
 "Yes, but the brotherhood had another, more important duty as well—to protect the bloodline itself. 
Christ
 He paused. 
s line grew quietly under cover in France 
until making a bold move in the fifth century, when it intermarried with French royal blood and 
created a lineage known as the Merovingian bloodline."
 This news surprised Sophie. Merovingian was a term learned by every student in France. "The 
Merovingians founded Paris."
 "Yes. That
s Grail 
quests here were in fact stealth missions to erase members of the royal bloodline. Have you heard 
of King Dagobert?"
 Sophie vaguely recalled the name from a grisly tale in history class. "Dagobert was a Merovingian 
king, wasn

 
Heristal. Late seventh century. 
With Dagobert
s son, Sigisbert, secretly escaped the attack and carried on the lineage, which later 
included Godefroi de Bouillon—founder of the Priory of Sion."
 "The same man," Langdon said, "who ordered the Knights Templar to recover the Sangreal 
documents from beneath Solomon

 Teabing nodded, heaving a ponderous sigh. 

 The words hung in the huge space, and Sophie felt an odd vibration, as if her bones were 
reverberating with some new kind of truth. Descendants of Jesus who survived into modern times. 
Her grandfather's voice again was whispering in her ear. Princess, I must tell you the truth about 
your family.
 A chill raked her flesh.
 Royal blood.
 She could not imagine.
 Princess Sophie.
 
 The manservant's words crackled through the intercom on the wall, and Sophie 
jumped. 

 Teabing scowled at the ill-timed intrusion. He went over to the intercom and pressed the button. 


 

 Teabing grunted and pressed the button. 

 

 Teabing looked incredulous. 

 
t take a minute."
 Teabing rolled his eyes and looked at Langdon and Sophie. "Sometimes I wonder who is serving 
whom?" He pressed the button again. "I

 

 

 

 CHAPTER 61
 Princess Sophie.
Sophie felt hollow as she listened to the clicking of Teabing's crutches fade down the hallway. 
Numb, she turned and faced Langdon in the deserted ballroom. He was already shaking his head as 
if reading her mind.
 
 he whispered, his eyes reassuring. 
s impossible." Langdon paused. "Saunière is not a Merovingian name."
 Sophie wasn
s mother
And Chauvel?
I'm sorry. I know that would have answered some questions for you. 
Only two direct lines of Merovingians remain. Their family names are Plantard and Saint-Clair. 
Both families live in hiding, probably protected by the Priory.
s long red hair and 
quiet eyes. There was something in the woman
Robert?
I know Leigh said the Grail story is all around us, but tonight is the first time I've ever heard any 
of this.
You've heard her story before, Sophie. Everyone has. We just don't realize it when we hear it.
I don't understand.
The Grail story is everywhere, but it is hidden. When the Church outlawed speaking of the 
shunned Mary Magdalene, her story and importance had to be passed on through more discreet 
channels... channels that supported metaphor and symbolism.
Of course. The arts.
A perfect example. Some of today's most enduring art, 
literature, and music secretly tell the history of Mary Magdalene and Jesus.
s Hunchback of Notre Dame and Mozart
Once you open your eyes to the Holy Grail,
you see her everywhere. Paintings. 
Music. Books. Even in cartoons, theme parks, and popular movies.
s work to pass on the Grail story to future generations. Throughout his entire life, Disney had 
been hailed as "the Modern-Day Leonardo da Vinci." Both men were generations ahead of their 
times, uniquely gifted artists, members of secret societies, and, most notably, avid pranksters. Like 
Leonardo, Walt Disney loved infusing hidden messages and symbolism in his art. For the trained 
symbologist, watching an early Disney movie was like being barraged by an avalanche of allusion 
and metaphor.
 Most of Disney
s Princess Aurora—code-named "Rose" and hidden deep in the forest to 
protect her from the clutches of the evil witch—was the Grail story for children.
 Despite its corporate image, Disney still had a savvy, playful element among its employees, and 
their artists still amused themselves by inserting hidden symbolism in Disney products. Langdon 
would never forget one of his students bringing in a DVD of The Lion King and pausing the film to 
reveal a freeze-frame in which the word SEX was clearly visible, spelled out by floating dust 
particles over Simba
s 
sophomoric prank than any kind of enlightened allusion to pagan human sexuality, he had learned 
not to underestimate Disney
s underwater home was none other than seventeenth-century artist 
Georges de la Tour
s name, Ariel, possessed powerful ties to the sacred feminine and, 
in the Book of Isaiah, was synonymous with "the Holy City besieged." Of course, the Little 
Mermaid
s crutches approached in the hallway, his pace unusually brisk. When their 
host entered the study, his expression was stern.
 "You
 he said coldly. 

 CHAPTER 62
 
m being framed, Leigh," Langdon said, trying to stay calm. You know me. I wouldn
s tone did not soften. "Robert, you
s sake. Did you know you 
were wanted by the authorities?"
 "Yes."
 "Then you abused my trust. I

 
t kill anyone."
 "Jacques Saunière is dead, and the police say you did it." Teabing looked saddened. "Such a 
contributor to the arts..."
 "Sir?" The manservant had appeared now, standing behind Teabing in the study doorway, his arms 
crossed. "Shall I show them out?"
 "Allow me." Teabing hobbled across the study, unlocked a set of wide glass doors, and swung 
them open onto a side lawn. "Please find your car, and leave."
 Sophie did not move. "We have information about the clef de voûte. The Priory keystone."
 Teabing stared at her for several seconds and scoffed derisively. "A desperate ploy. Robert knows 
how I

 
s telling the truth," Langdon said. "That

 The manservant intervened now. 

 
 Langdon whispered, 

 Teabing's balance seemed to falter a bit.
 Rémy now marched stiffly across the room. 

 
 Teabing spun, snapping at his servant. 

 The servant's jaw dropped. 

 
ll handle this." Teabing pointed to the hallway.
 After a moment of stunned silence, Rémy skulked out like a banished dog.
 In the cool night breeze coming through the open doors, Teabing turned back to Sophie and 
Langdon, his expression still wary. "This better be good. What do you know of the keystone?"
 In the thick brush outside Teabing
s bewilderment.
"Grand Master?" Teabing choked, eyeing Sophie. "Jacques Saunière?"
 Sophie nodded, seeing the shock in his eyes.
 "But you could not possibly know that!"
 "Jacques Saunière was my grandfather."
 Teabing staggered back on his crutches, shooting a glance at Langdon, who nodded. Teabing 
turned back to Sophie. "Miss Neveu, I am speechless. If this is true, then I am truly sorry for your 
loss. I should admit, for my research, I have kept lists of men in Paris whom I thought might be 
good candidates for involvement in the Priory. Jacques Saunière was on that list along with many 
others. But Grand Master, you say? It
 Teabing was silent a moment and then 
shook his head. 
s ultimate treasure. Granddaughter or not, you are not eligible to 
receive such knowledge."
 "Mr. Saunière was dying when he passed on the information," Langdon said. "He had limited 
options."
 "He didn
 Teabing argued. 

 
t see the entire news broadcast," Sophie said. "In addition to my grandfather, 
three other prominent Parisians were murdered today. All in similar ways. All looked like they had 
been interrogated."
 Teabing
And you think they were...
The sénéchaux,
But how? A murderer could not possibly learn the identities of all four top members of the Priory 
of Sion! Look at me, I have been researching them for decades, and I can't even name one Priory 
member. It seems inconceivable that all three sénéchaux and the Grand Master could be discovered 
and killed in one day.
I doubt the information was gathered in a single day,
It sounds like a well-planned 
décapiter. It's a technique we use to fight organized crime syndicates. If DCPJ wants to move on a 
certain group, they will silently listen and watch for months, identify all the main players, and then 
move in and take them all at the same moment. Decapitation. With no leadership, the group falls 
into chaos and divulges other information. It's possible someone patiently watched the Priory and 
then attacked, hoping the top people would reveal the location of the keystone.
But the brothers would never talk. They are sworn to secrecy. Even 
in the face of death.
Exactly,
Meaning, if they never divulged the secret, and they were killed...
Then the location of the keystone would be lost forever!
And with it,
the location of the Holy Grail.
s body seemed to sway with the weight of Langdon
Considering my grandfather's predicament, it seems possible 
that in total desperation he tried to pass the secret on to someone outside the brotherhood. Someone 
he thought he could trust. Someone in his family.
But someone capable of such an attack... of discovering so much about the 
brotherhood...
It could only be one force. This kind of 
infiltration could only have come from the Priory's oldest enemy.
The Church.
Who else? Rome has been seeking the Grail for centuries.
You think the Church killed my grandfather?
It would not be the first time in history the Church has killed to protect itself. The 
documents that accompany the Holy Grail are explosive, and the Church has wanted to destroy 
them for years.
s premise that the Church would blatantly murder 
people to obtain these documents. Having met the new Pope and many of the cardinals, Langdon 
knew they were deeply spiritual men who would never condone assassination. Regardless of the 
stakes.
 Sophie seemed to be having similar thoughts. "Isn
t understand what the Grail really 
is? The Cup of Christ, after all, would be quite an enticing treasure. Certainly treasure hunters have 
killed for less."
 "In my experience," Teabing said, "men go to far greater lengths to avoid what they fear than to 
obtain what they desire. I sense a desperation in this assault on the Priory."
 "Leigh," Langdon said, "the argument is paradoxical. Why would members of the Catholic clergy 
murder Priory members in an effort to find and destroy documents they believe are false testimony 
anyway?"
 Teabing chuckled. "The ivory towers of Harvard have made you soft, Robert. Yes, the clergy in 
Rome are blessed with potent faith, and because of this, their beliefs can weather any storm, 
including documents that contradict everything they hold dear. But what about the rest of the 
world? What about those who are not blessed with absolute certainty? What about those who look 
at the cruelty in the world and say, where is God today? Those who look at Church scandals and 
ask, who are these men who claim to speak the truth about Christ and yet lie to cover up the sexual 
abuse of children by their own priests?" Teabing paused. "What happens to those people, Robert, if 
persuasive scientific evidence comes out that the Church

 Langdon did not respond.
 
ll tell you what happens if the documents get out," Teabing said. "The Vatican faces a crisis of 
faith unprecedented in its two-millennia history."
 After a long silence, Sophie said, "But if it is the Church who is responsible for this attack, why 
would they act now? After all these years? The Priory keeps the Sangreal documents hidden. They 
pose no immediate threat to the Church."
 Teabing heaved an ominous sigh and glanced at Langdon. "Robert, I assume you are familiar with 
the Priory

 Langdon felt his breath catch at the thought. 

 
 Teabing said, 
 He paused. 

 Sophie stared at Teabing in silence. Finally, she too sat down. 

 
 Teabing said, 

Langdon had the uneasy feeling that Teabing was making good sense. 
s date?"
 "Why not—if we
t have the exact date, 
their superstitions may be getting the best of them."
 "Superstitions?" Sophie asked.
 "In terms of prophecy," Teabing said, "we are currently in an epoch of enormous change. The 
millennium has recently passed, and with it has ended the two-thousand-year-long astrological Age 
of Pisces—the fish, which is also the sign of Jesus. As any astrological symbologist will tell you, 
the Piscean ideal believes that man must be told what to do by higher powers because man is 
incapable of thinking for himself. Hence it has been a time of fervent religion. Now, however, we 
are entering the Age of Aquarius—the water bearer—whose ideals claim that man will learn the 
truth and be able to think for himself. The ideological shift is enormous, and it is occurring right 
now."
 Langdon felt a shiver. Astrological prophecy never held much interest or credibility for him, but he 
knew there were those in the Church who followed it very closely. "The Church calls this 
transitional period the End of Days."
 Sophie looked skeptical. "As in the end of the world? The Apocalypse?"
 "No." Langdon replied. "That
s birth, spanned two thousand years, and waned with the passing of the 
millennium. Now that we

 
 Teabing added, 
s release would coincide precisely with the millennium. 
Obviously, it did not. Admittedly, the Roman calendar does not mesh perfectly with astrological 
markers, so there is some gray area in the prediction. Whether the Church now has inside 
information that an exact date is looming, or whether they are just getting nervous on account of 
astrological prophecy, I don
s immaterial. Either scenario explains how the 
Church might be motivated to launch a preemptive attack against the Priory." Teabing frowned. 
"And believe me, if the Church finds the Holy Grail, they will destroy it. The documents and the 
relics of the blessed Mary Magdalene as well." His eyes grew heavy. "Then, my dear, with the 
Sangreal documents gone, all evidence will be lost. The Church will have won their age-old war to 
rewrite history. The past will be erased forever."
 Slowly, Sophie pulled the cruciform key from her sweater pocket and held it out to Teabing.
Teabing took the key and studied it. "My goodness. The Priory seal. Where did you get this?"
 "My grandfather gave it to me tonight before he died."
 Teabing ran his fingers across the cruciform. "A key to a church?"
 She drew a deep breath. "This key provides access to the keystone."
 Teabing
Impossible! What church did I miss? I've 
searched every church in France!
It's not in a church,
It's in a Swiss depository bank.
s look of excitement waned. "The keystone is in a bank?"
 "A vault," Langdon offered.
 "A bank vault?" Teabing shook his head violently. "That

 
 Langdon said. 

 Teabing looked thunderstruck. 
ve seen the keystone?"
 Sophie nodded. "We visited the bank."
 Teabing came over to them, his eyes wild with fear. "My friends, we must do something. The 
keystone is in danger! We have a duty to protect it. What if there are other keys? Perhaps stolen 
from the murdered sénéchaux? If the Church can gain access to the bank as you have—"
 "Then they will be too late," Sophie said. "We removed the keystone."
 "What! You removed the keystone from its hiding place?"
 "Don
 Langdon said. 

 

 
 Langdon said, unable to hide his grin, 

The wind outside Château Villette had picked up, and Silas's robe danced in the breeze as he 
crouched near the window. Although he had been unable to hear much of the conversation, the 
word keystone had sifted through the glass on numerous occasions.
 It is inside.
 The Teacher's words were fresh in his mind. Enter Château Villette. Take the keystone. Hun no 
one.
 Now, Langdon and the others had adjourned suddenly to another room, extinguishing the study 
lights as they went. Feeling like a panther stalking prey, Silas crept to the glass doors. Finding 
them unlocked, he slipped inside and closed the doors silently behind him. He could hear muffled 
voices from another room. Silas pulled the pistol from his pocket, turned off the safety, and inched 
down the hallway.
 CHAPTER 63
 Lieutenant Collet stood alone at the foot of Leigh Teabing's driveway and gazed up at the massive 
house. Isolated. Dark. Good ground cover. Collet watched his half-dozen agents spreading silently 
out along the length of the fence. They could be over it and have the house surrounded in a matter 
of minutes. Langdon could not have chosen a more ideal spot for Collet's men to make a surprise 
assault.
 Collet was about to call Fache himself when at last his phone rang.
 Fache sounded not nearly as pleased with the developments as Collet would have imagined. 
t someone tell me we had a lead on Langdon?"
 "You were on a phone call and—"
 "Where exactly are you, Lieutenant Collet?"
 Collet gave him the address. "The estate belongs to a British national named Teabing. Langdon 
drove a fair distance to get here, and the vehicle is inside the security gate, with no signs of forced 
entry, so chances are good that Langdon knows the occupant."
 "I
 Fache said. 
t make a move. I

 Collet's jaw dropped. 
re twenty minutes away! We should act immediately. I 
have him staked out. I

 

 

 
 Fache 
hung up.
 Stunned, Lieutenant Collet switched off his phone. Why the hell is Fache asking me to wait? Collet 
knew the answer. Fache, though famous for his instinct, was notorious for his pride. Fache wants 
credit for the arrest. After putting the American's face all over the television, Fache wanted to be 
sure his own face got equal time. Collet's job was simply to hold down the fort until the boss 
showed up to save the day.
 As he stood there, Collet flashed on a second possible explanation for this delay. Damage control. 
In law enforcement, hesitating to arrest a fugitive only occurred when uncertainty had arisen 
regarding the suspect's guilt. Is Fache having second thoughts that Langdon is the right man? The 
thought was frightening. Captain Fache had gone out on a limb tonight to arrest Robert 
Langdon—surveillance cachée, Interpol, and now television. Not even the great Bezu Fache would 
survive the political fallout if he had mistakenly splashed a prominent American's face all over 
French television, claiming he was a murderer. If Fache now realized he'd made a mistake, then it 
made perfect sense that he would tell Collet not to make a move. The last thing Fache needed was 
for Collet to storm an innocent Brit's private estate and take Langdon at gunpoint.
 Moreover, Collet realized, if Langdon were innocent, it explained one of this case's strangest 
paradoxes: Why had Sophie Neveu, the granddaughter of the victim, helped the alleged killer 
escape? Unless Sophie knew Langdon was falsely charged. Fache had posited all kinds of 
explanations tonight to explain Sophie's odd behavior, including that Sophie, as Saunière's sole 
heir, had persuaded her secret lover Robert Langdon to kill off Saunière for the inheritance money. 
Saunière, if he had suspected this, might have left the police the message P.S. Find Robert 
Langdon. Collet was fairly certain something else was going on here. Sophie Neveu seemed far too 
solid of character to be mixed up in something that sordid.
 
 One of the field agents came running over. 

 Collet followed the agent about fifty yards past the driveway. The agent pointed to a wide shoulder 
on the opposite side of the road. There, parked in the brush, almost out of sight, was a black Audi. 
It had rental plates. Collet felt the hood. Still warm. Hot even.
 
 Collet said. 
s 
stolen."
"Yes, sir."
 Another agent waved Collet back over in the direction of the fence. "Lieutenant, have a look at 
this." He handed Collet a pair of night vision binoculars. "The grove of trees near the top of the 
driveway."
 Collet aimed the binoculars up the hill and adjusted the image intensifier dials. Slowly, the 
greenish shapes came into focus. He located the curve of the driveway and slowly followed it up, 
reaching the grove of trees. All he could do was stare. There, shrouded in the greenery, was an 
armored truck. A truck identical to the one Collet had permitted to leave the Depository Bank of 
Zurich earlier tonight. He prayed this was some kind of bizarre coincidence, but he knew it could 
not be.
 "It seems obvious," the agent said, "that this truck is how Langdon and Neveu got away from the 
bank."
 Collet was speechless. He thought of the armored truck driver he had stopped at the roadblock. The 
Rolex. His impatience to leave. I never checked the cargo hold.
 Incredulous, Collet realized that someone in the bank had actually lied to DCPJ about Langdon and 
Sophie
s intricate inlaid 
Rose. Tonight has become the strangest and most magical night of my life.
"Lift the lid," Sophie whispered, standing over him, beside Langdon.
 Teabing smiled. Do not rush me. Having spent over a decade searching for this keystone, he 
wanted to savor every millisecond of this moment. He ran a palm across the wooden lid, feeling the 
texture of the inlaid flower.
 "The Rose," he whispered. The Rose is Magdalene is the Holy Grail. The Rose is the compass that 
guides the way. Teabing felt foolish. For years he had traveled to cathedrals and churches all over 
France, paying for special access, examining hundreds of archways beneath rose windows, 
searching for an encrypted keystone. La clef de voûte—a stone key beneath the sign of the Rose.
 Teabing slowly unlatched the lid and raised it.
 As his eyes finally gazed upon the contents, he knew in an instant it could only be the keystone. He 
was staring at a stone cylinder, crafted of interconnecting lettered dials. The device seemed 
surprisingly familiar to him.
 "Designed from Da Vinci
 Sophie said. 

 Of course, Teabing realized. He had seen the sketches and blueprints. The key to finding the Holy 
Grail lies inside this stone. Teabing lifted the heavy cryptex from the box, holding it gently. 
Although he had no idea how to open the cylinder, he sensed his own destiny lay inside. In 
moments of failure, Teabing had questioned whether his life's quest would ever be rewarded. Now 
those doubts were gone forever. He could hear the ancient words... the foundation of the Grail 
legend:
 Vous ne trouvez pas le Saint-Graal, c'est le Saint-Graal qui vous trouve.
 You do not find the Grail, the Grail finds you.
 And tonight, incredibly, the key to finding the Holy Grail had walked right through his front door.
 While Sophie and Teabing sat with the cryptex and talked about the vinegar, the dials, and what the 
password might be, Langdon carried the rosewood box across the room to a well-lit table to get a 
better look at it. Something Teabing had just said was now running through Langdon's mind.
 The key to the Grail is hidden beneath the sign of the Rose.
 Langdon held the wooden box up to the light and examined the inlaid symbol of the Rose. 
Although his familiarity with art did not include woodworking or inlaid furniture, he had just 
recalled the famous tiled ceiling of the Spanish monastery outside of Madrid, where, three 
centuries after its construction, the ceiling tiles began to fall out, revealing sacred texts scrawled by 
monks on the plaster beneath.
 Langdon looked again at the Rose.
 Beneath the Rose.
 Sub Rosa.
 Secret.
 A bump in the hallway behind him made Langdon turn. He saw nothing but shadows. Teabing's 
manservant most likely had passed through. Langdon turned back to the box. He ran his finger over 
the smooth edge of the inlay, wondering if he could pry the Rose out, but the craftsmanship was 
perfect. He doubted even a razor blade could fit in between the inlaid Rose and the carefully carved 
depression into which it was seated.
 Opening the box, he examined the inside of the lid. It was smooth. As he shifted its position, 
though, the light caught what appeared to be a small hole on the underside of the lid, positioned in 
the exact center. Langdon closed the lid and examined the inlaid symbol from the top. No hole.
 It doesn't pass through.
 Setting the box on the table, he looked around the room and spied a stack of papers with a paper 
clip on it. Borrowing the clip, he returned to the box, opened it, and studied the hole again. 
Carefully, he unbent the paper clip and inserted one end into the hole. He gave a gentle push. It 
took almost no effort. He heard something clatter quietly onto the table. Langdon closed the lid to 
look. It was a small piece of wood, like a puzzle piece. The wooden Rose had popped out of the lid 
and fallen onto the desk.
 Speechless, Langdon stared at the bare spot on the lid where the Rose had been. There, engraved in 
the wood, written in an immaculate hand, were four lines of text in a language he had never seen.
 The characters look vaguely Semitic, Langdon thought to himself, and yet I don't recognize the 
language!
 A sudden movement behind him caught his attention. Out of nowhere, a crushing blow to the head 
knocked Langdon to his knees.
 As he fell, he thought for a moment he saw a pale ghost hovering over him, clutching a gun. Then 
everything went black.
CHAPTER 65
 Sophie Neveu, despite working in law enforcement, had never found herself at gunpoint until 
tonight. Almost inconceivably, the gun into which she was now staring was clutched in the pale 
hand of an enormous albino with long white hair. He looked at her with red eyes that radiated a 
frightening, disembodied quality. Dressed in a wool robe with a rope tie, he resembled a medieval 
cleric. Sophie could not imagine who he was, and yet she was feeling a sudden newfound respect 
for Teabing's suspicions that the Church was behind this.
 
 the monk said, his voice hollow.
 Sophie and Teabing were seated on the divan, arms raised as their attacker had commanded. 
Langdon lay groaning on the floor. The monk's eyes fell immediately to the keystone on Teabing's 
lap.
 Teabing's tone was defiant. 

 
 the monk replied, inching closer, the gun shifting between Teabing and 
Sophie.
 Sophie wondered where Teabing's manservant was. Didn't he hear Robert fall?
 
 Teabing asked. 

 
 He moved closer.
 
re bleeding," Teabing noted calmly, nodding to the monk
And you're limping.
As do you,
Now, 
hand me the keystone.
You know of the keystone?
Never mind what I know. Stand up slowly, and give it to me.
Standing is difficult for me.
Precisely. I would prefer nobody attempt any quick moves.
s head. Sophie 
watched, feeling helpless as the monk reached out to take the cylinder.
 "You will not succeed," Teabing said. "Only the worthy can unlock this stone."
 God alone judges the worthy, Silas thought.
 "It
 the man on crutches said, his arm wavering now. 
t take it soon, I
 He swayed perilously.
 Silas stepped quickly forward to take the stone, and as he did, the man on crutches lost his balance. 
The crutch slid out from under him, and he began to topple sideways to his right. No! Silas lunged 
to save the stone, lowering his weapon in the process. But the keystone was moving away from 
him now. As the man fell to his right, his left hand swung backward, and the cylinder tumbled from 
his palm onto the couch. At the same instant, the metal crutch that had been sliding out from under 
the man seemed to accelerate, cutting a wide arc through the air toward Silas's leg.
 Splinters of pain tore up Silas's body as the crutch made perfect contact with his cilice, crushing the 
barbs into his already raw flesh. Buckling, Silas crumpled to his knees, causing the belt to cut 
deeper still. The pistol discharged with a deafening roar, the bullet burying itself harmlessly in the 
floorboards as Silas fell. Before he could raise the gun and fire again, the woman's foot caught him 
square beneath the jaw.
 At the bottom of the driveway, Collet heard the gunshot. The muffled pop sent panic through his 
veins. With Fache on the way, Collet had already relinquished any hopes of claiming personal 
credit for finding Langdon tonight. But Collet would be damned if Fache's ego landed him in front 
of a Ministerial Review Board for negligent police procedure.
 A weapon was discharged inside a private home! And you waited at the bottom of the driveway?
 Collet knew the opportunity for a stealth approach had long since passed. He also knew if he stood 
idly by for another second, his entire career would be history by morning. Eyeing the estate's iron 
gate, he made his decision.
 

In the distant recesses of his groggy mind, Robert Langdon had heard the gunshot. He'd also heard 
a scream of pain. His own? A jackhammer was boring a hole into the back of his cranium. 
Somewhere nearby, people were talking.
 
 Teabing was yelling.
 The manservant hurried in. 
ll call the police!"
 "Bloody hell! Don

 
 Sophie called after him.
 Langdon drifted out again. More voices. Movement. Now he was seated on the divan. Sophie was 
holding an ice pack to his head. His skull ached. As Langdon's vision finally began to clear, he 
found himself staring at a body on the floor. Am I hallucinating? The massive body of an albino 
monk lay bound and gagged with duct tape. His chin was split open, and the robe over his right 
thigh was soaked with blood. He too appeared to be just now coming to.
 Langdon turned to Sophie. 

 Teabing hobbled over. 

 Huh? Langdon tried to sit up.
 Sophie's touch was shaken but tender. 

 
 Teabing said, 
ve just demonstrated for your lady friend the unfortunate benefit of 
my condition. It seems everyone underestimates you."
 From his seat on the divan, Langdon gazed down at the monk and tried to imagine what had 
happened.
 "He was wearing a cilice," Teabing explained.
 "A what?"
 Teabing pointed to a bloody strip of barbed leather that lay on the floor. "A Discipline belt. He 
wore it on his thigh. I took careful aim."
 Langdon rubbed his head. He knew of Discipline belts. "But how... did you know?"
Teabing grinned. "Christianity is my field of study, Robert, and there are certain sects who wear 
their hearts on their sleeves." He pointed his crutch at the blood soaking through the monk
As it were.
Opus Dei,
supernumerary
s more stringent "numerary" members... members like the monk now lying on the floor 
before Langdon.
 Teabing was looking closely at the bloody belt. "But why would Opus Dei be trying to find the 
Holy Grail?"
 Langdon was too groggy to consider it.
 "Robert," Sophie said, walking to the wooden box. "What
 She was holding the small Rose 
inlay he had removed from the lid.
 

 Before Sophie and Teabing could respond, a sea of blue police lights and sirens erupted at the 
bottom of the hill and began snaking up the half-mile driveway.
 Teabing frowned. 
d better make it fast."
 CHAPTER 66
 Collet and his agents burst through the front door of Sir Leigh Teabing
They're upstairs!
t get off the compound. The driveway 
and gate were barricaded with two patrol cars to prevent this very situation.
 "Sir?" The agent pointed down the length of the stalls.
 The barn
Get some men spread out 
down there. They're probably already stuck somewhere nearby. These fancy sports cars can't 
handle terrain.
Um, sir?
s manservant Rémy, on orders from his master, was doing an impressive job of 
maneuvering the vehicle across the moonlit fields behind Château Villette. With no headlights, he 
had crossed an open knoll and was now descending a long slope, moving farther away from the 
estate. He seemed to be heading toward a jagged silhouette of wooded land in the distance.
 Langdon, cradling the keystone, turned in the passenger seat and eyed Teabing and Sophie in the 
back seat.
"How
 Sophie asked, sounding concerned.
 Langdon forced a pained smile. 
 It was killing him.
 Beside her, Teabing glanced over his shoulder at the bound and gagged monk lying in the cramped 
luggage area behind the back seat. Teabing had the monk's gun on his lap and looked like an old 
photo of a British safari chap posing over his kill.
 
 Teabing said, grinning as if he were having fun for 
the first time in years.
 

 
ve waited my entire life to be involved." Teabing looked past Langdon out the 
windshield at the shadow of a long hedgerow. He tapped Rémy on the shoulder from behind. 
"Remember, no brake lights. Use the emergency brake if you need it. I want to get into the woods a 
bit. No reason to risk them seeing us from the house."
 Rémy coasted to a crawl and guided the Range Rover through an opening in the hedge. As the 
vehicle lurched onto an overgrown pathway, almost immediately the trees overhead blotted out the 
moonlight.
 I can
You're doing beautifully, Rémy,
That should be far enough. Robert, if you could 
press that little blue button just below the vent there. See it?
Well, Rémy,
The lights are on. Our lives are in your hands.
Where are we going?
This trail continues about three kilometers into the forest,
Cutting across the estate 
and then arching north. Provided we don't hit any standing water or fallen trees, we shall emerge 
unscathed on the shoulder of highway five.
s head begged to differ. He turned his eyes down to his own lap, where the 
keystone was safely stowed in its wooden box. The inlaid Rose on the lid was back in place, and 
although his head felt muddled, Langdon was eager to remove the inlay again and examine the 
engraving beneath more closely. He unlatched the lid and began to raise it when Teabing laid a 
hand on his shoulder from behind.
 "Patience, Robert," Teabing said. "It
t recognize the language in the light, you won
s focus on getting 
away in one piece, shall we? There will be time for that very soon."
 Langdon knew Teabing was right. With a nod, he relatched the box.
 The monk in back was moaning now, struggling against his trusses. Suddenly, he began kicking 
wildly.
 Teabing spun around and aimed the pistol over the seat. "I can

 The monk fell silent.
 
 Langdon asked.
 
 Teabing exclaimed. 
re wanted for murder, Robert. This scoundrel is 
your ticket to freedom. The police apparently want you badly enough to have tailed you to my 
home."
 "My fault," Sophie said. "The armored car probably had a transmitter."
 "Not the point," Teabing said. "I
ve told me, I can

 Langdon considered it. Bezu Fache certainly seemed intent on finding a scapegoat for tonight's 
murders. And Vernet had turned on them rather suddenly, although considering Langdon was 
being charged with four murders, the banker's change of heart seemed understandable.
 
 Teabing said, 

Rémy was picking up speed, getting comfortable with the trail. They splashed through some water, 
climbed a small rise, and began descending again.
 
 Teabing pointed to the car phone on the 
dash. Langdon handed it back, and Teabing dialed a number. He waited for a very long time before 
someone answered. 
m sorry. I have a 
small problem. I
 He hung up.
 
 Langdon said.
 
s ransom."
 Langdon turned full around and looked at him.
 "What?" Teabing demanded. "You two can

 Sophie had turned to Teabing as well. 

 

 
re running a big risk," Sophie said, "by helping us. You won

 Teabing gave a wave of disgust. 
t care if I ever again see Château Villette."
 Sophie sounded uncertain. "How will we get through airport security?"
 Teabing chuckled. "I fly from Le Bourget—an executive airfield not far from here. French doctors 
make me nervous, so every fortnight, I fly north to take my treatments in England. I pay for certain 
special privileges at both ends. Once we
d like someone from the U.S. Embassy to meet us."
 Langdon suddenly didn
s mythical, Grail-rich Isle of Avalon was now believed to be none 
other than Glastonbury, England. Wherever the Grail lay, Langdon never imagined he would 
actually be looking for it. The Sangreal documents. The true history of Jesus Christ. The tomb of 
Mary Magdalene. He suddenly felt as if he were living in some kind of limbo tonight... a bubble 
where the real world could not reach him.
 "Sir?" Rémy said. "Are you truly thinking of returning to England for good?"
 "Rémy, you needn
 Teabing assured. 
s realm 
does not mean I intend to subject my palate to bangers and mash for the rest of my days. I expect 
you will join me there permanently. I
ll 
have all your things shipped up immediately. An adventure, Rémy. I say, an adventure!"
 Langdon had to smile. As Teabing railed on about his plans for a triumphant return to Britain, 
Langdon felt himself caught up in the man
You okay?
Yeah,
Somehow.
I think he's choking,
Fortunately for you, we British judge man's civility not by his 
compassion for his friends, but by his compassion for his enemies.
s mouth. In one fast motion, he tore it off.
Silas felt as if his lips had just caught fire, but the air pouring into his lungs was sent from God.
 "Whom do you work for?" the British man demanded.
 "I do the work of God," Silas spat back through the pain in his jaw where the woman had kicked 
him.
 "You belong to Opus Dei," the man said. It was not a question.
 "You know nothing of who I am."
 "Why does Opus Dei want the keystone?"
 Silas had no intention of answering. The keystone was the link to the Holy Grail, and the Holy 
Grail was the key to protecting the faith.
 I do the work of God. The Way is in peril.
 Now, in the Range Rover, struggling against his bonds, Silas feared he had failed the Teacher and 
the bishop forever. He had no way even to contact them and tell them the terrible turn of events. 
My captors have the keystone! They will reach the Grail before we do! In the stifling darkness, 
Silas prayed. He let the pain of his body fuel his supplications.
 A miracle, Lord. I need a miracle. Silas had no way of knowing that hours from now, he would get 
one.
 "Robert?" Sophie was still watching him. "A funny look just crossed your face."
 Langdon glanced back at her, realizing his jaw was firmly set and his heart was racing. An 
incredible notion had just occurred to him. Could it really be that simple an explanation? "I need to 
use your cell phone, Sophie."
 "Now?"
 "I think I just figured something out."
 "What?"
 "I

 Sophie looked wary. 
 She gave 
him her phone.
 

 
t cover transatlantic."
 Langdon dialed zero, knowing that the next sixty seconds might answer a question that had been 
puzzling him all night.
 CHAPTER 68
 New York editor Jonas Faukman had just climbed into bed for the night when the telephone rang. 
A little late for callers, he grumbled, picking up the receiver.
 An operator
Will you accept charges for a collect call from Robert Langdon?
Uh... sure, okay.
Jonas?
Robert? You wake me up and you charge me for it?
Jonas, forgive me,
I'll keep this very short. I really need to know. The manuscript 
I gave you. Have you—
Robert, I'm sorry, I know I said I'd send the edits out to you this week, but I'm swamped. Next 
Monday. I promise.
I'm not worried about the edits. I need to know if you sent any copies out for blurbs without 
telling me?
s newest manuscript—an exploration of the history of goddess 
worship—included several sections about Mary Magdalene that were going to raise some 
eyebrows. Although the material was well documented and had been covered by others, Faukman 
had no intention of printing Advance Reading Copies of Langdon
s experience, most people jumped 
at the opportunity to see their name in print.
"Jonas?" Langdon pressed. "You sent out my manuscript, didn

 Faukman frowned, sensing Langdon was not happy about it. 

 A pause. 

 

 The silence on the other end lasted a long time. 

 
 Faukman paused, rubbing his eyes. 
t you supposed to be 
in Paris this week?"
 "I am in Paris."
 Faukman sat upright. "You called me collect from Paris?"
 "Take it out of my royalties, Jonas. Did you ever hear back from Saunière? Did he like the 
manuscript?"
 "I don
t yet heard from him."
 "Well, don
ve got to run, but this explains a lot Thanks."
 "Robert—"
 But Langdon was gone.
 Faukman hung up the phone, shaking his head in disbelief Authors, he thought. Even the sane ones 
are nuts.
 Inside the Range Rover, Leigh Teabing let out a guffaw. "Robert, you

 Langdon slumped. 

 

Coincidence has nothing to do with it, Langdon knew. Asking Jacques Saunière to endorse a 
manuscript on goddess worship was as obvious as asking Tiger Woods to endorse a book on golf. 
Moreover, it was virtually guaranteed that any book on goddess worship would have to mention the 
Priory of Sion.
 
s the million-dollar question," Teabing said, still chuckling. "Was your position on the Priory 
favorable or unfavorable?"
 Langdon could hear Teabing
I took no position on the Priory's actions.
You mean lack thereof.
I simply 
provided history on the brotherhood and described them as a modern goddess worship society, 
keepers of the Grail, and guardians of ancient documents.
Did you mention the keystone?
I talked about the supposed keystone as an example of 
the lengths to which the Priory would go to protect the Sangreal documents.
I guess that explains P.S. Find Robert Langdon.
s 
interest, but that topic was something he would discuss with Sophie when they were alone.
 "So," Sophie said, "you lied to Captain Fache."
 "What?" Langdon demanded.
 "You told him you had never corresponded with my grandfather."
 "I didn

 
t find the envelope in which your editor sent the 
manuscript, he would have to conclude that you sent it." She paused. "Or worse, that you hand
delivered it and lied about it."
 When the Range Rover arrived at Le Bourget Airfield, Rémy drove to a small hangar at the far end 
of the airstrip. As they approached, a tousled man in wrinkled khakis hurried from the hangar, 
waved, and slid open the enormous corrugated metal door to reveal a sleek white jet within.
 Langdon stared at the glistening fuselage. "That

 Teabing grinned. 

 The man in khakis hurried toward them, squinting into the headlights. 
 he 
called in a British accent. 
 He 
stopped short as the group unloaded. He looked at Sophie and Langdon, and then Teabing.
 Teabing said, 
ve no time to waste. Please 
prepare to depart immediately." As he spoke, Teabing took the pistol out of the vehicle and handed 
it to Langdon.
 The pilot
Sir, 
my humble apologies, but my diplomatic flight allowance provides only for you and your 
manservant. I cannot take your guests.
Richard,
two thousand pounds sterling and that loaded gun say 
you can take my guests.
And the unfortunate fellow in the 
back.
s twin Garrett TFE-731 engines thundered, powering the plane skyward with gut
wrenching force. Outside the window, Le Bourget Airfield dropped away with startling speed.
 I
s dying wishes. That window of opportunity, Sophie knew, had just closed. She was 
leaving the country, without documentation, accompanying a wanted man, and transporting a 
bound hostage. If a "line of reason" had ever existed, she had just crossed it. At almost the speed of 
sound.
 Sophie was seated with Langdon and Teabing near the front of the cabin—the Fan Jet Executive 
Elite Design, according to the gold medallion on the door. Their plush swivel chairs were bolted to 
tracks on the floor and could be repositioned and locked around a rectangular hardwood table. A 
mini-boardroom. The dignified surroundings, however, did little to camouflage the less than 
dignified state of affairs in the rear of the plane where, in a separate seating area near the rest room, 
Teabing
s orders 
to stand guard over the bloody monk who lay trussed at his feet like a piece of luggage.
 "Before we turn our attention to the keystone," Teabing said, "I was wondering if you would permit 
me a few words." He sounded apprehensive, like a father about to give the birds-and-the-bees 
lecture to his children. "My friends, I realize I am but a guest on this journey, and I am honored as 
such. And yet, as someone who has spent his life in search of the Grail, I feel it is my duty to warn 
you that you are about to step onto a path from which there is no return, regardless of the dangers 
involved." He turned to Sophie. "Miss Neveu, your grandfather gave you this cryptex in hopes you 
would keep the secret of the Holy Grail alive."
 "Yes."
 "Understandably, you feel obliged to follow the trail wherever it leads."
 Sophie nodded, although she felt a second motivation still burning within her. The truth about my 
family. Despite Langdon
s own hands, were trying to speak to her and offer some kind of resolution to the 
emptiness that had haunted her all these years.
 "Your grandfather and three others died tonight," Teabing continued, "and they did so to keep this 
keystone away from the Church. Opus Dei came within inches tonight of possessing it. You 
understand, I hope, that this puts you in a position of exceptional responsibility. You have been 
handed a torch. A two-thousand-year-old flame that cannot be allowed to go out. This torch cannot 
fall into the wrong hands." He paused, glancing at the rosewood box. "I realize you have been 
given no choice in this matter, Miss Neveu, but considering what is at stake here, you must either 
fully embrace this responsibility... or you must pass that responsibility to someone else."
 "My grandfather gave the cryptex to me. I

 Teabing looked encouraged but unconvinced. 

 

 

Sophie paused. 
m not sure that is my decision to make."
 Teabing
No? If not the possessor of the keystone, then who?
The brotherhood who has successfully protected the secret for so long.
The Priory?
But how? The brotherhood was shattered tonight. 
Decapitated, as you so aptly put it. Whether they were infiltrated by some kind of eavesdropping or 
by a spy within their ranks, we will never know, but the fact remains that someone got to them and 
uncovered the identities of their four top members. I would not trust anyone who stepped forward 
from the brotherhood at this point.
So what do you suggest?
Robert, you know as well as I do that the Priory has not protected the truth all these years to have 
it gather dust until eternity. They have been waiting for the right moment in history to share their 
secret. A time when the world is ready to handle the truth.
And you believe that moment has arrived?
Absolutely. It could not be more obvious. All the historical signs are in place, and if the Priory did 
not intend to make their secret known very soon, why has the Church now attacked?
The monk has not yet told us his purpose.
The monk's purpose is the Church's purpose,
to destroy the documents that 
reveal the great deception. The Church came closer tonight than they have ever come, and the 
Priory has put its trust in you, Miss Neveu. The task of saving the Holy Grail clearly includes 
carrying out the Priory's final wishes of sharing the truth with the world.
Leigh, asking Sophie to make that decision is quite a load to drop on 
someone who only an hour ago learned the Sangreal documents exist.
I apologize if I am pressing, Miss Neveu. Clearly I have always believed these 
documents should be made public, but in the end the decision belongs to you. I simply feel it is 
important that you begin to think about what happens should we succeed in opening the keystone.
Gentlemen,
To quote your words, 'You do not find the Grail, the 
Grail finds you.' I am going to trust that the Grail has found me for a reason, and when the time 
comes, I will know what to do.
So then,
Let's move on.
s direct orders and lost Langdon for a second time, Collet was grateful 
that PTS had located a bullet hole in the floor, which at least corroborated Collet
s mood was sour, and Collet sensed there would be dire 
repercussions when the dust settled.
 Unfortunately, the clues they were turning up here seemed to shed no light at all on what was going 
on or who was involved. The black Audi outside had been rented in a false name with false credit 
card numbers, and the prints in the car matched nothing in the Interpol database.
 Another agent hurried into the living room, his eyes urgent. "Where

 Collet barely looked up from the burning embers. 
s on the phone."
 "I
 Fache snapped, stalking into the room. 

 The second agent said, 

 
 Fache said.
 Now Collet looked up.
 

 
 Fache said. 

 
ll talk only to you, but he

 


s name out of the news and also for helping him recover some stolen 
property. It sounds like Langdon and Neveu stole something from Saunière

 
 Collet blurted. 

 Fache never flinched, his eyes riveted on the second agent. 

 
t elaborate, but he sounds like he

 Collet tried to imagine how this could happen. Maybe Langdon and Neveu had held a bank 
employee at gunpoint? Maybe they forced Vernet to open Saunière's account and facilitate an 
escape in the armored truck. As feasible as it was, Collet was having trouble believing Sophie 
Neveu could be involved in anything like that.
 From the kitchen, another agent yelled to Fache. 
m going through Mr. Teabing
m on the phone with Le Bourget Airfield. I

 Thirty seconds later, Fache was packing up and preparing to leave Château Villette. He had just 
learned that Teabing kept a private jet nearby at Le Bourget Airfield and that the plane had taken 
off about a half hour ago.
 The Bourget representative on the phone had claimed not to know who was on the plane or where 
it was headed. The takeoff had been unscheduled, and no flight plan had been logged. Highly 
illegal, even for a small airfield. Fache was certain that by applying the right pressure, he could get 
the answers he was looking for.
 
 Fache barked, heading for the door. 

 CHAPTER 71
 As the Hawker leveled off, with its nose aimed for England, Langdon carefully lifted the rosewood 
box from his lap, where he had been protecting it during takeoff. Now, as he set the box on the 
table, he could sense Sophie and Teabing leaning forward with anticipation.
 Unlatching the lid and opening the box, Langdon turned his attention not to the lettered dials of the 
cryptex, but rather to the tiny hole on the underside of the box lid. Using the tip of a pen, he 
carefully removed the inlaid Rose on top and revealed the text beneath it. Sub Rosa, he mused, 
hoping a fresh look at the text would bring clarity. Focusing all his energies, Langdon studied the 
strange text.
 After several seconds, he began to feel the initial frustration resurfacing. 
t seem to 
place it."
 From where Sophie was seated across the table, she could not yet see the text, but Langdon
t identify it? She quickly realized she should not find this 
surprising. This would not be the first secret Jacques Saunière had kept from his granddaughter.
 Opposite Sophie, Leigh Teabing felt ready to burst. Eager for his chance to see the text, he 
quivered with excitement, leaning in, trying to see around Langdon, who was still hunched over the 
box.
 "I don
 Langdon whispered intently. 
m not so sure. 
Most primary Semitics include nekkudot. This has none."
 "Probably ancient," Teabing offered.
 "Nekkudot?" Sophie inquired.
 Teabing never took his eyes from the box. "Most modern Semitic alphabets have no vowels and 
use nekkudot—tiny dots and dashes written either below or within the consonants—to indicate 
what vowel sound accompanies them. Historically speaking, nekkudot are a relatively modern 
addition to language."
Langdon was still hovering over the script. "A Sephardic transliteration, perhaps...?"
 Teabing could bear it no longer. "Perhaps if I just..." Reaching over, he edged the box away from 
Langdon and pulled it toward himself. No doubt Langdon had a solid familiarity with the standard 
ancients—Greek, Latin, the Romances—but from the fleeting glance Teabing had of this language, 
he thought it looked more specialized, possibly a Rashi script or a STA
I'm astonished,
This language looks like nothing I've ever seen!
Might I see it?
Robert, you said earlier that you thought you'd seen something 
like this before?
I thought so. I'm not sure. The script looks familiar somehow.
Leigh?
Might I have a 
look at the box my grandfather made?
Of course, dear,
t meant to sound belittling, and yet 
Sophie Neveu was light-years out of her league. If a British Royal Historian and a Harvard 
symbologist could not even identify the language—
 "Aah," Sophie said, seconds after examining the box. "I should have guessed."
 Teabing and Langdon turned in unison, staring at her.
 "Guessed what?" Teabing demanded.
 Sophie shrugged. "Guessed that this would be the language my grandfather would have used."
 "You
 Teabing exclaimed.
 
 Sophie chimed, obviously enjoying herself now. 
m fluent." She leaned across the table and fixed Teabing 
with an admonishing glare. "And frankly, sir, considering your allegiance to the Crown, I
t recognize it."
 In a flash, Langdon knew.
No wonder the script looks so damned familiar!
 Several years ago, Langdon had attended an event at Harvard
s Codex Leicester after their famous owner, the Earl 
of Leicester—were all that remained of one of Leonardo
s progressive theories on astronomy, geology, archaeology, and 
hydrology.
 Langdon would never forget his reaction after waiting in line and finally viewing the priceless 
parchment. Utter letdown. The pages were unintelligible. Despite being beautifully preserved and 
written in an impeccably neat penmanship—crimson ink on cream paper—the codex looked like 
gibberish. At first Langdon thought he could not read them because Da Vinci wrote his notebooks 
in an archaic Italian. But after studying them more closely, he realized he could not identify a 
single Italian word, or even one letter.
 "Try this, sir," whispered the female docent at the display case. She motioned to a hand mirror 
affixed to the display on a chain. Langdon picked it up and examined the text in the mirror
s ideas that he had forgotten one of 
the man
I can read the first few 
words,
It's English.
What's going on?
Reverse text,
We need a mirror.
No we don't,
I bet this veneer is thin enough.
t 
actually write in reverse, so he always cheated by writing normally and then flipping the paper over 
and tracing the reversed impression. Sophie
d simply flipped the piece over, 
and laid it in.
 As Sophie moved the lid closer to the light, she saw she was right. The bright beam sifted through 
the thin layer of wood, and the script appeared in reverse on the underside of the lid.
 Instantly legible.
 "English," Teabing croaked, hanging his head in shame. "My native tongue."
 At the rear of the plane, Rémy Legaludec strained to hear beyond the rumbling engines, but the 
conversation up front was inaudible. Rémy did not like the way the night was progressing. Not at 
all. He looked down at the bound monk at his feet. The man lay perfectly still now, as if in a trance 
of acceptance, or perhaps, in silent prayer for deliverance.
 CHAPTER 72
 Fifteen thousand feet in the air, Robert Langdon felt the physical world fade away as all of his 
thoughts converged on Saunière
d family whole... a 
headstone praised by templars is the key... and atbash will reveal the truth to thee.
 Before Langdon could even ponder what ancient password the verse was trying to reveal, he felt 
something far more fundamental resonate within him—the meter of the poem. Iambic pentameter.
 Langdon had come across this meter often over the years while researching secret societies across 
Europe, including just last year in the Vatican Secret Archives. For centuries, iambic pentameter 
had been a preferred poetic meter of outspoken literati across the globe, from the ancient Greek 
writer Archilochus to Shakespeare, Milton, Chaucer, and Voltaire—bold souls who chose to write 
their social commentaries in a meter that many of the day believed had mystical properties. The 
roots of iambic pentameter were deeply pagan.
 Iambs. Two syllables with opposite emphasis. Stressed and unstressed. Yin yang. A balanced pair. 
Arranged in strings of five. Pentameter. Five for the pentacle of Venus and the sacred feminine.
 "It
 Teabing blurted, turning to Langdon. 

 Langdon nodded. The Priory, like many European secret societies at odds with the Church, had 
considered English the only European pure language for centuries. Unlike French, Spanish, and 
Italian, which were rooted in Latin—the tongue of the Vatican—English was linguistically 
removed from Rome's propaganda machine, and therefore became a sacred, secret tongue for those 
brotherhoods educated enough to learn it.

 Teabing gushed, 

 
 Sophie said, looking again at the poem. 

 
 Teabing ventured, his eyes twinkling.
 A word of five letters, Langdon thought, pondering the staggering number of ancient words that 
might be considered words of wisdom—selections from mystic chants, astrological prophecies, 
secret society inductions, Wicca incantations, Egyptian magic spells, pagan mantras—the list was 
endless.
 
 Sophie said, 
 She read the 
text aloud. 
A headstone praised by Templars is the key.

 
 Langdon said, 
re the Templar specialist. Any ideas?"
 Teabing was silent for several seconds and then sighed. "Well, a headstone is obviously a grave 
marker of some sort. It
t help us much because we have no idea where her tomb is."
 "The last line," Sophie said, "says that Atbash will reveal the truth. I

 
m not surprised," Langdon replied. "You probably heard it in Cryptology 101. The Atbash 
Cipher is one of the oldest codes known to man."
 Of course! Sophie thought. The famous Hebrew encoding system.
 The Atbash Cipher had indeed been part of Sophie
Atbash is sublimely appropriate,
Text encrypted with Atbash is found throughout 
the Kabbala, the Dead Sea Scrolls, and even the Old Testament. Jewish scholars and mystics are 
still finding hidden meanings using Atbash. The Priory certainly would include the Atbash Cipher 
as part of their teachings.
The only problem,
is that we don't have anything on which to apply the cipher.
There must be a code word on the headstone. We must find this headstone 
praised by Templars.
s face that finding the Templar headstone would be 
no small feat.
 Atbash is the key, Sophie thought. But we don
My friends, 
I'm stymied. Let me ponder this while I get us some nibblies and check on Rémy and our guest.
s riddles, she had the uneasy sense right now that this poem before them contained 
information they still had not seen.
 There is more there, she told herself. Ingeniously hidden... but present nonetheless.
 Also plaguing her thoughts was a fear that what they eventually found inside this cryptex would 
not be as simple as "a map to the Holy Grail." Despite Teabing
s confidence that the 
truth lay just within the marble cylinder, Sophie had solved enough of her grandfather
s night shift air traffic controller had been dozing before a blank radar screen 
when the captain of the Judicial Police practically broke down his door.
 "Teabing
 Bezu Fache blared, marching into the small tower, 

 The controller's initial response was a babbling, lame attempt to protect the privacy of their British 
client—one of the airfield's most respected customers. It failed miserably.
 
 Fache said, 
 Fache motioned to another officer, who approached with 
handcuffs, and the traffic controller felt a surge of terror. He thought of the newspaper articles 
debating whether the nation's police captain was a hero or a menace. That question had just been 
answered.

 the controller heard himself whimper at the sight of the handcuffs. 

 Fache waved off the man with the cuffs. 

 
t know," the controller said honestly. "The plane left on its usual tack, and his last radar 
contact suggested the United Kingdom. Biggin Hill is an extremely likely guess."
 "Did he have others onboard?"
 "I swear, sir, there is no way for me to know that. Our clients can drive directly to their hangars, 
and load as they please. Who is onboard is the responsibility of the customs officials at the 
receiving airport."
 Fache checked his watch and gazed out at the scattering of jets parked in front of the terminal. "If 
they

 The controller fumbled through his records. 
s a short flight. His plane could be on the ground 
by... around six-thirty. Fifteen minutes from now."
 Fache frowned and turned to one of his men. "Get a transport up here. I
s plane to be permitted to land. Then I want it surrounded on the tarmac. Nobody deplanes 
until I get there."
 CHAPTER 74
 "You
 Langdon said, gazing across the Hawker's cabin at Sophie.
 
 she replied. 
t know."
 Langdon was feeling the same way. The hum of the engines and the gentle rocking of the plane 
were hypnotic, and his head still throbbed where he
I think I know part of the reason why your grandfather 
conspired to put us together. I think there's something he wanted me to explain to you.
The history of the Holy Grail and Mary Magdalene isn't enough?
The rift between you. The reason you haven't spoken to 
him in ten years. I think maybe he was hoping I could somehow make that right by explaining what 
drove you apart.
I haven't told you what drove us apart.
You witnessed a sex rite. Didn't you?
How do you know that?
Sophie, you told me you witnessed something that convinced you your grandfather was in a secret 
society. And whatever you saw upset you enough that you haven't spoken to him since. I know a 
fair amount about secret societies. It doesn't take the brains of Da Vinci to guess what you saw.
Was it in the spring?
Sometime around the equinox? Mid-March?
I was on spring break from university. I came home a few days 
early.
You want to tell me about it?
I'd rather not.
I don't 
know what I saw.
Were both men and women present?
Dressed in white and black?
The women were in white 
gossamer gowns... with golden shoes. They held golden orbs. The men wore black tunics and black 
shoes.
Masks?
Androgynous masks?
Yes. Everyone. Identical masks. White on the women. Black on the men.
It's called Hieros 
Gamos,
It dates back more than two thousand years. Egyptian priests and 
priestesses performed it regularly to celebrate the reproductive power of the female,
And if you witnessed Hieros Gamos without being properly prepared to 
understand its meaning, I imagine it would be pretty shocking.
Hieros Gamos is Greek,
It means sacred marriage.
The ritual I saw was no marriage.
Marriage as in union, Sophie.
You mean as in sex.
No.
No?
Well... yes, in a manner of speaking, but not as we understand it today.
s only bridge from earth to heaven. "By communing with woman," Langdon said, "man could 
achieve a climactic instant when his mind went totally blank and he could see God."
 Sophie looked skeptical. "Orgasm as prayer?"
 Langdon gave a noncommittal shrug, although Sophie was essentially correct. Physiologically 
speaking, the male climax was accompanied by a split second entirely devoid of thought. A brief 
mental vacuum. A moment of clarity during which God could be glimpsed. Meditation gurus 
achieved similar states of thoughtlessness without sex and often described Nirvana as a never
ending spiritual orgasm.
 "Sophie," Langdon said quietly, "it
 view of sex was 
entirely opposite from ours today. Sex begot new life—the ultimate miracle—and miracles could 
be performed only by a god. The ability of the woman to produce life from her womb made her 
sacred. A god. Intercourse was the revered union of the two halves of the human spirit—male and 
female—through which the male could find spiritual wholeness and communion with God. What 
you saw was not about sex, it was about spirituality. The Hieros Gamos ritual is not a perversion. 
It

 His words seemed to strike a nerve. Sophie had been remarkably poised all evening, but now, for 
the first time, Langdon saw the aura of composure beginning to crack. Tears materialized in her 
eyes again, and she dabbed them away with her sleeve.
 He gave her a moment. Admittedly, the concept of sex as a pathway to God was mind-boggling at 
first. Langdon's Jewish students always looked flabbergasted when he first told them that the early 
Jewish tradition involved ritualistic sex. In the Temple, no less. Early Jews believed that the Holy 
of Holies in Solomon's Temple housed not only God but also His powerful female equal, Shekinah. 
Men seeking spiritual wholeness came to the Temple to visit priestesses—or hierodules—with 
whom they made love and experienced the divine through physical union. The Jewish 
tetragrammaton YHWH—the sacred name of God—in fact derived from Jehovah, an androgynous 
physical union between the masculine Jah and the pre-Hebraic name for Eve, Havah.
 
 Langdon explained in a soft voice, 
s use of sex to commune 
directly with God posed a serious threat to the Catholic power base. It left the Church out of the 
loop, undermining their self-proclaimed status as the sole conduit to God. For obvious reasons, 
they worked hard to demonize sex and recast it as a disgusting and sinful act. Other major religions 
did the same."
 Sophie was silent, but Langdon sensed she was starting to understand her grandfather better. 
Ironically, Langdon had made this same point in a class lecture earlier this semester. "Is it 
surprising we feel conflicted about sex?" he asked his students. "Our ancient heritage and our very 
physiologies tell us sex is natural—a cherished route to spiritual fulfillment—and yet modern 
religion decries it as shameful, teaching us to fear our sexual desire as the hand of the devil."
 Langdon decided not to shock his students with the fact that more than a dozen secret societies 
around the world—many of them quite influential—still practiced sex rites and kept the ancient 
traditions alive. Tom Cruise
Professor Langdon?
Are you saying 
that instead of going to chapel, we should have more sex?
d heard about Harvard parties, these 
kids were having more than enough sex. "Gentlemen," he said, knowing he was on tender ground, 
"might I offer a suggestion for all of you. Without being so bold as to condone premarital sex, and 
without being so naive as to think you

All the men in the audience leaned forward, listening intently.
 

 The women smiled knowingly, nodding.
 The men exchanged dubious giggles and off-color jokes.
 Langdon sighed. College men were still boys.
 Sophie's forehead felt cold as she pressed it against the plane's window and stared blankly into the 
void, trying to process what Langdon had just told her. She felt a new regret well within her. Ten 
years. She pictured the stacks of unopened letters her grandfather had sent her. I will tell Robert 
everything. Without turning from the window, Sophie began to speak. Quietly. Fearfully.
 As she began to recount what had happened that night, she felt herself drifting back... alighting in 
the woods outside her grandfather's Normandy château... searching the deserted house in 
confusion... hearing the voices below her... and then finding the hidden door. She inched down the 
stone staircase, one step at a time, into that basement grotto. She could taste the earthy air. Cool 
and light. It was March. In the shadows of her hiding place on the staircase, she watched as the 
strangers swayed and chanted by flickering orange candles.
 I'm dreaming, Sophie told herself. This is a dream. What else could this be?
 The women and men were staggered, black, white, black, white. The women's beautiful gossamer 
gowns billowed as they raised in their right hands golden orbs and called out in unison, 

 The women lowered their orbs, and everyone rocked back and forth as if in a trance. They were 
revering something in the center of the circle.
 What are they looking at?
 The voices accelerated now. Louder. Faster.
 
 The women called, raising their orbs again.
 The men responded, 

The chanting grew steady again. Accelerating. Thundering now. Faster. The participants stepped 
inward and knelt.
 In that instant, Sophie could finally see what they were all watching.
 On a low, ornate altar in the center of the circle lay a man. He was naked, positioned on his back, 
and wearing a black mask. Sophie instantly recognized his body and the birthmark on his shoulder. 
She almost cried out. Grand-père! This image alone would have shocked Sophie beyond belief, 
and yet there was more.
 Straddling her grandfather was a naked woman wearing a white mask, her luxuriant silver hair 
flowing out behind it. Her body was plump, far from perfect, and she was gyrating in rhythm to the 
chanting—making love to Sophie's grandfather.
 Sophie wanted to turn and run, but she couldn't. The stone walls of the grotto imprisoned her as the 
chanting rose to a fever pitch. The circle of participants seemed almost to be singing now, the noise 
rising in crescendo to a frenzy. With a sudden roar, the entire room seemed to erupt in climax. 
Sophie could not breathe. She suddenly realized she was quietly sobbing. She turned and staggered 
silently up the stairs, out of the house, and drove trembling back to Paris.
 CHAPTER 75
 The chartered turboprop was just passing over the twinkling lights of Monaco when Aringarosa 
hung up on Fache for the second time. He reached for the airsickness bag again but felt too drained 
even to be sick.
 Just let it be over!
 Fache's newest update seemed unfathomable, and yet almost nothing tonight made sense anymore. 
What is going on? Everything had spiraled wildly out of control. What have I gotten Silas into? 
What have I gotten myself into!
 On shaky legs, Aringarosa walked to the cockpit. 

 The pilot glanced over his shoulder and laughed. 
re joking, right?"
 "No. I have to get to London immediately."
 "Father, this is a charter flight, not a taxi."
"I will pay you extra, of course. How much? London is only one hour farther north and requires 
almost no change of direction, so—"
 "It

 

 The pilot turned, his eyes wide with shock. 

 Aringarosa walked back to his black briefcase, opened it, and removed one of the bearer bonds. He 
handed it to the pilot.
 
 the pilot demanded.
 

 The pilot looked dubious.
 
s the same as cash."
 "Only cash is cash," the pilot said, handing the bond back.
 Aringarosa felt weak as he steadied himself against the cockpit door. "This is a matter of life or 
death. You must help me. I need to get to London."
 The pilot eyed the bishop
Real diamonds?
I could not possibly part with this.
s moment of glory was in shambles.
 It had all begun as a holy cause. A brilliantly crafted scheme. Now, like a house of cards, it was 
collapsing in on itself... and the end was nowhere in sight.
CHAPTER 76
 Langdon could see Sophie was still shaken from recounting her experience of Hieros Gamos. For 
his part, Langdon was amazed to have heard it. Not only had Sophie witnessed the full-blown 
ritual, but her own grandfather had been the celebrant... the Grand Master of the Priory of Sion. It 
was heady company. Da Vinci, Botticelli, Isaac Newton, Victor Hugo, Jean Cocteau... Jacques 
Saunière.
 "I don
 Langdon said softly.
 Sophie's eyes were a deep green now, tearful. 

 Langdon now recognized the emotion that had been growing in her eyes as they spoke. It was 
remorse. Distant and deep. Sophie Neveu had shunned her grandfather and was now seeing him in 
an entirely different light.
 Outside, the dawn was coming fast, its crimson aura gathering off the starboard. The earth was still 
black beneath them.
 
 Teabing rejoined them with a flourish, presenting several cans of Coke and a 
box of old crackers. He apologized profusely for the limited fare as he doled out the goods. 
t talking yet," he chimed, "but give him time." He bit into a cracker and eyed 
the poem. "So, my lovely, any headway?" He looked at Sophie. "What is your grandfather trying to 
tell us here? Where the devil is this headstone? This headstone praised by Templars."
 Sophie shook her head and remained silent.
 While Teabing again dug into the verse, Langdon popped a Coke and turned to the window, his 
thoughts awash with images of secret rituals and unbroken codes. A headstone praised by Templars 
is the key. He took a long sip from the can. A headstone praised by Templars. The cola was warm.
 The dissolving veil of night seemed to evaporate quickly, and as Langdon watched the 
transformation, he saw a shimmering ocean stretch out beneath them. The English Channel. It 
wouldn
You won't believe this,
The Templar 
headstone—I figured it out.
s eyes turned to saucers. "You know where the headstone is?"
 Langdon smiled. "Not where it is. What it is."
 Sophie leaned in to hear.
 "I think the headstone references a literal stone head," Langdon explained, savoring the familiar 
excitement of academic breakthrough. "Not a grave marker."
 "A stone head?" Teabing demanded.
 Sophie looked equally confused.
 "Leigh," Langdon said, turning, "during the Inquisition, the Church accused the Knights Templar 
of all kinds of heresies, right?"
 "Correct. They fabricated all kinds of charges. Sodomy, urination on the cross, devil worship, quite 
a list."
 "And on that list was the worship of false idols, right? Specifically, the Church accused the 
Templars of secretly performing rituals in which they prayed to a carved stone head... the pagan 
god—"
 "Baphomet!" Teabing blurted. "My heavens, Robert, you

 Langdon quickly explained to Sophie that Baphomet was a pagan fertility god associated with the 
creative force of reproduction. Baphomet's head was represented as that of a ram or goat, a 
common symbol of procreation and fecundity. The Templars honored Baphomet by encircling a 
stone replica of his head and chanting prayers.
 
 Teabing tittered. 
s head was in fact that of the devil. The Pope 
used the head of Baphomet as the linchpin in his case against the Templars."
 Langdon concurred. The modern belief in a horned devil known as Satan could be traced back to 
Baphomet and the Church
horn of plenty
s fertility and dated back to Zeus being suckled by a goat whose horn broke off and 
magically filled with fruit. Baphomet also appeared in group photographs when some joker raised 
two fingers behind a friend
s robust sperm count.
 "Yes, yes," Teabing was saying excitedly. "Baphomet must be what the poem is referring to. A 
headstone praised by Templars."
 "Okay," Sophie said, "but if Baphomet is the headstone praised by Templars, then we have a new 
dilemma." She pointed to the dials on the cryptex. "Baphomet has eight letters. We only have room 
for five."
 Teabing grinned broadly. "My dear, this is where the Atbash Cipher comes into play"
 CHAPTER 77
 Langdon was impressed. Teabing had just finished writing out the entire twenty-two-letter Hebrew 
alphabet—alef-beit—from memory. Granted, he
Alef, Beit, Gimel, Dalet, Hei, Vav, Zayin, Chet, Tet, Yud, Kaf, Lamed, Mem, Nun, Samech, Ayin, 
Pei, Tzadik, Kuf, Reish, Shin, and Tav.
In 
formal Hebrew spelling, the vowel sounds are not written. Therefore, when we write the word 
Baphomet using the Hebrew alphabet, it will lose its three vowels in translation, leaving us—
Five letters,
Okay, here is the proper spelling of Baphomet in 
Hebrew letters. I'll sketch in the missing vowels for clarity's sake.
 B a P V o M e Th
 
 he added, 

 
s an easier way," Sophie said, taking the pen from Teabing. "It works for all reflectional 
substitution ciphers, including the Atbash. A little trick I learned at the Royal Holloway." Sophie 
wrote the first half of the alphabet from left to right, and then, beneath it, wrote the second half, 
right to left. "Cryptanalysts call it the fold-over. Half as complicated. Twice as clean."
 A B G D H V Z Ch T Y K
 Th Sh R Q Tz P O S N M L
 Teabing eyed her handiwork and chuckled. "Right you are. Glad to see those boys at the Holloway 
are doing their job."
 Looking at Sophie
We're getting close,
Inches, Robert,
You ready?
Okay, Baphomet in Hebrew without the vowels reads: B-P-V-M-Th. Now we simply apply your 
Atbash substitution matrix to translate the letters into our five-letter password.
s heart pounded. B-P-V-M-Th. The sun was pouring through the windows now. He looked 
at Sophie
And the Atbash Cipher reveals...
Good God!
s head snapped up.
 "What
 Sophie demanded.
 
t believe this." Teabing glanced at Sophie. "Especially you."
 "What do you mean?" she said.
 "This is... ingenious," he whispered. "Utterly ingenious!" Teabing wrote again on the paper. 
"Drumroll, please. Here is your password." He showed them what he had written.
 Sh-V-P-Y-A
 Sophie scowled. "What is it?"
 Langdon didn
s voice seemed to tremble with awe. "This, my friend, is actually an ancient word of 
wisdom."
 Langdon read the letters again. An ancient word of wisdom frees this scroll. An instant later he got 
it. He had newer seen this coming. "An ancient word of wisdom!"
 Teabing was laughing. "Quite literally!"
 Sophie looked at the word and then at the dial. Immediately she realized Langdon and Teabing had 
failed to see a serious glitch. "Hold on! This can
 she argued. 
t have an Sh on the dial. It uses a traditional Roman alphabet."
 "Read the word," Langdon urged. "Keep in mind two things. In Hebrew, the symbol for the sound 
Sh can also be pronounced as S, depending on the accent. Just as the letter P can be pronounced F."
 SVFYA? she thought, puzzled.
 "Genius!" Teabing added. "The letter Vav is often a placeholder for the vowel sound O!"
 Sophie again looked at the letters, attempting to sound them out.
 "S...o...f...y...a."
She heard the sound of her voice, and could not believe what she had just said. "Sophia? This 
spells Sophia?"
 Langdon was nodding enthusiastically. "Yes! Sophia literally means wisdom in Greek. The root of 
your name, Sophie, is literally a 
 "
 Sophie suddenly missed her grandfather immensely. He encrypted the Priory keystone with my 
name. A knot caught in her throat. It all seemed so perfect. But as she turned her gaze to the five 
lettered dials on the cryptex, she realized a problem still existed. "But wait... the word Sophia has 
six letters."
 Teabing
Look at the poem again. Your grandfather wrote, 'An ancient word 
of wisdom.' 
Yes?
In ancient Greek, wisdom is spelled S-O-F-I-A.
Carefully,
Ever so carefully.
Okay,
I'm going to pull it 
apart.
Remember the vinegar,
Be careful.
s outward force on the ends would be transferred to a hinged lever 
inside, which would pivot downward into the cavity and apply pressure to the glass vial, eventually 
shattering it if she pulled too hard.
 Pull gently, she told herself.
 Teabing and Langdon both leaned in as Sophie wrapped her palms around the ends of the cylinder. 
In the excitement of deciphering the code word, Sophie had almost forgotten what they expected to 
find inside. This is the Priory keystone. According to Teabing, it contained a map to the Holy Grail, 
unveiling the tomb of Mary Magdalene and the Sangreal treasure... the ultimate treasure trove of 
secret truth.
 Now gripping the stone tube, Sophie double-checked that all of the letters were properly aligned 
with the indicator. Then, slowly, she pulled. Nothing happened. She applied a little more force. 
Suddenly, the stone slid apart like a well-crafted telescope. The heavy end piece detached in her 
hand. Langdon and Teabing almost jumped to their feet. Sophie
s odd, she thought, vinegar 
can
What's wrong?
Pull out the scroll.
That's not papyrus,
It's too heavy.
I know. It's padding.
For what? The vial of vinegar?
No.
For this.
God help us,
Your grandfather was a pitiless architect.
s passion for dualism. Two cryptexes. Everything in pairs. Double entendres. Male female. 
Black nested within white. Langdon felt the web of symbolism stretching onward. White gives birth 
to black.
 Every man sprang from woman.
 White—female.
 Black—male.
 Reaching over, Langdon lifted the smaller cryptex. It looked identical to the first, except half the 
size and black. He heard the familiar gurgle. Apparently, the vial of vinegar they had heard earlier 
was inside this smaller cryptex.
 "Well, Robert," Teabing said, sliding the page of vellum over to him.
 "You
re flying in the right direction."
 Langdon examined the thick vellum sheet. Written in ornate penmanship was another four-line 
verse. Again, in iambic pentameter. The verse was cryptic, but Langdon needed to read only as far 
as the first line to realize that Teabing
s tomb, somewhere in the city.
 Langdon turned excitedly to Teabing. "Do you have any idea what knight this poem is referring 
to?"
 Teabing grinned. "Not the foggiest. But I know in precisely which crypt we should look."
 At that moment, fifteen miles ahead of them, six Kent police cars streaked down rain-soaked 
streets toward Biggin Hill Executive Airport.
CHAPTER 79
 Lieutenant Collet helped himself to a Perrier from Teabing
Anything?
Nothing new. Multiple sets matching those in the rest of the house.
How about the prints on the cilice belt?
Interpol is still working. I uploaded everything we found.
And this?
Force of habit. I bag anything peculiar.
This Brit's a strange one,
Have a look at this.
This is peculiar?
Turn it over.
s long hollow nave 
as a secret pagan tribute to a woman
s doorway, however, was what startled him. "Hold on! He thinks a cathedral
s..."
 The examiner nodded. "Complete with receding labial ridges and a nice little cinquefoil clitoris 
above the doorway." He sighed. "Kind of makes you want to go back to church."
 Collet picked up the second evidence bag. Through the plastic, he could see a large glossy 
photograph of what appeared to be an old document. The heading at the top read:
 Les Dossiers Secrets—Number 4° lm1 249
 "What
 Collet asked.
 
s got copies of it all over the place, so I bagged it."
 Collet studied the document.
 PRIEURE DE SIGN—LES NAUTONIERS/GRAND MASTERS
 JEAN DE GISORS
 MARIE DE SAINT-CLAIR
 GUILLAUME DE GlSORS
 EDOUARD DE BAR
 JEANNE DE BAR
 JEAN DE SAINT-CLAIR
 BLANCE D
ANJOU
 IOLANDE DE BAR
 SANDRO BOTTICELLI
 LEONARDO DA VINCI
 CONNETABLE DE BOURBON
 FERDINAND DE GONZAQUE
 LOUIS DE NEVERS
 ROBERT FLUDD
 J. VALENTIN ANDREA
 ROBERT BOYLE
 ISAAC NEWTON
 1188-1220
 1220-1266
 1266-1307
 1307-1336
 1336-1351
 1351-1366
 1366-1398
 1398-1418
 1418-1480
 1480-1483
 1483-1510
 1510-1519
 1519-1527
 1527-1575
 1575-1595
 1595-1637
 1637-1654
 1654-1691
 1691-1727
CHARLES RADCLYFFE 1727-1746
 CHARLES DE LORRAINE 1746-1780
 MAXIMILIAN DE LORRAINE 1780-1801
 CHARLES NODIER 1801-1844
 VICTOR HUGO 1844-1885
 CLAUDE DEBUSSY 1885-1918
 JEAN COCTEAU 1918-1963
 
Prieuré de Sion? Collet wondered.
 "Lieutenant?" Another agent stuck his head in. "The switchboard has an urgent call for Captain 
Fache, but they can

 Collet returned to the kitchen and took the call.
 It was André Vernet.
 The banker's refined accent did little to mask the tension in his voice. 

 
 Collet replied. 

 

 For a moment, Collet thought he recognized the timbre of the man's voice, but he couldn't quite 
place it. 

 There was a long pause on the line. 
 He hung up.
 For several seconds, Collet held the receiver. Then it dawned on him. I knew I recognized that 
voice! The revelation made him gasp.
 The armored car driver.
 With the fake Rolex.
 Collet now understood why the banker had hung up so quickly. Vernet had remembered the name 
Lieutenant Collet—the officer he blatantly lied to earlier tonight.
Collet pondered the implications of this bizarre development. Vernet is involved. Instinctively, he 
knew he should call Fache. Emotionally, he knew this lucky break was going to be his moment to 
shine.
 He immediately called Interpol and requested every shred of information they could find on the 
Depository Bank of Zurich and its president, André Vernet.
 CHAPTER 80
 
 Teabing's pilot announced as the Hawker 731 descended into a gloomy 
morning drizzle. 
ll be landing in five minutes."
 Teabing felt a joyous sense of homecoming when he saw the misty hills of Kent spreading wide 
beneath the descending plane. England was less than an hour from Paris, and yet a world away. 
This morning, the damp, spring green of his homeland looked particularly welcoming. My time in 
France is over. I am returning to England victorious. The keystone has been found. The question 
remained, of course, as to where the keystone would ultimately lead. Somewhere in the United 
Kingdom. Where exactly, Teabing had no idea, but he was already tasting the glory.
 As Langdon and Sophie looked on, Teabing got up and went to the far side of the cabin, then slid 
aside a wall panel to reveal a discreetly hidden wall safe. He dialed in the combination, opened the 
safe, and extracted two passports. "Documentation for Rémy and myself." He then removed a thick 
stack of fifty-pound notes. "And documentation for you two."
 Sophie looked leery. "A bribe?"
 "Creative diplomacy. Executive airfields make certain allowances. A British customs official will 
greet us at my hangar and ask to board the plane. Rather than permitting him to come on, I
m traveling with a French celebrity who prefers that nobody knows she is in England—press 
considerations, you know—and I

 Langdon looked amazed. 

 
t, but these people all know me. I
s 
sake. I was knighted." Teabing smiled. "Membership has its privileges."
 Rémy approached up the aisle now, the Heckler Koch pistol cradled in his hand. "Sir, my agenda?"
 Teabing glanced at his servant. "I
t very well drag him all over London with us."
 Sophie looked wary. "Leigh, I was serious about the French police finding your plane before we 
return."
 Teabing laughed. "Yes, imagine their surprise if they board and find Rémy."
 Sophie looked surprised by his cavalier attitude. "Leigh, you transported a bound hostage across 
international borders. This is serious."
 "So are my lawyers." He scowled toward the monk in the rear of the plane. "That animal broke into 
my home and almost killed me. That is a fact, and Rémy will corroborate."
 "But you tied him up and flew him to London!" Langdon said.
 Teabing held up his right hand and feigned a courtroom oath. "Your honor, forgive an eccentric old 
knight his foolish prejudice for the British court system. I realize I should have called the French 
authorities, but I

 Langdon looked incredulous. 

 
 the pilot called back. 
ve got some kind of maintenance 
problem out near your hangar, and they

 Teabing had been flying to Biggin Hill for over a decade, and this was a first. 

 
re not supposed to deplane until we get the all clear from airport authorities."
 Teabing was skeptical. Must be one hell of a gas leak. The pumping station was a good half mile 
from his hangar.
 Rémy also looked concerned. "Sir, this sounds highly irregular."
 Teabing turned to Sophie and Langdon. "My friends, I have an unpleasant suspicion that we are 
about to be met by a welcoming committee."
 Langdon gave a bleak sigh. "I guess Fache still thinks I


 Sophie said, 
s mind-set, action needed to be taken fast. Don
re so dose. Below them, the landing gear descended 
with a clunk.
 "Leigh," Langdon said, sounding deeply remorseful, "I should turn myself in and sort this out 
legally. Leave you all out of it."
 "Oh, heavens, Robert!" Teabing waved it off. "Do you really think they
re all in this together."
 "Maybe a different airport?" Sophie said.
 Teabing shook his head. "If we pull up now, by the time we get clearance anywhere else, our 
welcoming party will include army tanks."
 Sophie slumped.
 Teabing sensed that if they were to have any chance of postponing confrontation with the British 
authorities long enough to find the Grail, bold action had to be taken. "Give me a minute," he said, 
hobbling toward the cockpit.
 "What are you doing?" Langdon asked.
 "Sales meeting," Teabing said, wondering how much it would cost him to persuade his pilot to 
perform one highly irregular maneuver.
 CHAPTER 81
 The Hawker is on final approach.
 Simon Edwards—Executive Services Officer at Biggin Hill Airport—paced the control tower, 
squinting nervously at the rain-drenched runway. He never appreciated being awoken early on a 
Saturday morning, but it was particularly distasteful that he had been called in to oversee the arrest 
of one of his most lucrative clients. Sir Leigh Teabing paid Biggin Hill not only for a private 
hangar but a "per landing fee" for his frequent arrivals and departures. Usually, the airfield had 
advance warning of his schedule and was able to follow a strict protocol for his arrival. Teabing 
liked things just so. The custom-built Jaguar stretch limousine that he kept in his hangar was to be 
fully gassed, polished, and the day
t accommodate its clients, certainly competing airfields would. Teabing was 
provided with what he wanted here at Biggin Hill, and the employees reaped the benefits.
 Edwards
s 
penchant for spreading the wealth had gotten him in trouble somehow; the French authorities 
seemed very intent on containing him. Edwards had not yet been told what the charges were, but 
they were obviously serious. At the French authorities
s pilot and order him directly to the terminal rather 
than to the client
s engines powered down. The instant this happened, 
a runway attendant would place safety wedges under the tires so the plane could no longer move. 
Then the police would step into view and hold the occupants at bay until the French police arrived 
to handle the situation.
 The Hawker was low in the sky now, skimming the treetops to their right. Simon Edwards went 
downstairs to watch the landing from tarmac level. The Kent police were poised, just out of sight, 
and the maintenance man waited with his wedges. Out on the runway, the Hawker
s hangar in the distance.
 All the police spun and stared at Edwards. "I thought you said the pilot agreed to come to the 
terminal!"
 Edwards was bewildered. "He did!"
 Seconds later, Edwards found himself wedged in a police car racing across the tarmac toward the 
distant hangar. The convoy of police was still a good five hundred yards away as Teabing
s engines were still roaring as the jet finished its usual rotation inside the hangar, 
positioning itself nose-out in preparation for later departure. As the plane completed its 180-degree 
turn and rolled toward the front of the hangar, Edwards could see the pilot
s electronic stairs smoothly dropped down. As 
he gazed out at the sea of weapons aimed at him, he propped himself on his crutches and scratched 
his head. "Simon, did I win the policemen
 He sounded more 
bewildered than concerned.
 Simon Edwards stepped forward, swallowing the frog in his throat. 
ve had a gas leak and your pilot said he was coming to the terminal."
 "Yes, yes, well, I told him to come here instead. I

 
m afraid your arrival has taken us a bit off guard, sir."
 "I know. I
d come over for a tune-up."
 The policemen all exchanged looks. Edwards winced. "Very good, sir."
 "Sir," the Kent chief inspector said, stepping forward. "I need to ask you to stay onboard for 
another half hour or so."
 Teabing looked unamused as he hobbled down the stairs. "I
 He reached the tarmac. 

 The chief inspector repositioned himself to block Teabing's progress away from the plane. 

 Teabing stared at the chief inspector a long moment, and then burst out laughing. 

 The chief inspector never flinched. 

 Teabing's manservant Rémy appeared in the doorway at the top of the stairs. 
 Rémy checked his watch. 
 He nodded toward the Jaguar stretch limousine in the far corner of the 
hangar. The enormous automobile was ebony with smoked glass and whitewall tires. 
ll bring the 
car." Rémy started down the stairs.
 "I
 the chief inspector said. 

 Teabing looked now toward Simon Edwards. 
s sake, this is ridiculous! We 
don

 Edwards knew he was trapped. 

 
 the Kent chief inspector declared, apparently knowing enough about 
executive airfields to suspect Simon Edwards might well lie about the plane's occupants in an effort 
to keep Teabing's business at Biggin Hill. 

 Teabing shook his head. 
t, Inspector. This is private property and until you have a 
search warrant, you will stay off my plane. I am offering you a reasonable option here. Mr. 
Edwards can perform the inspection."
 "No deal."
 Teabing
Inspector, I'm afraid I don't have time to indulge in your games. 
I'm late, and I'm leaving. If it is that important to you to stop me, you'll just have to shoot me.
s back. "Stop! I will fire!"
 "Go ahead," Teabing said without breaking stride or glancing back. "My lawyers will fricassee 
your testicles for breakfast. And if you dare board my plane without a warrant, your spleen will 
follow."
No stranger to power plays, the chief inspector was unimpressed. Technically, Teabing was correct 
and the police needed a warrant to board his jet, but because the flight had originated in France, 
and because the powerful Bezu Fache had given his authority, the Kent chief inspector felt certain 
his career would be far better served by finding out what it was on this plane that Teabing seemed 
so intent on hiding.
 "Stop them," the inspector ordered. "I

 His men raced over, guns leveled, and physically blocked Teabing and his servant from reaching 
the limousine.
 Now Teabing turned. 

 Ignoring the threat, the chief inspector gripped his sidearm and marched up the plane's gangway. 
Arriving at the hatch, he peered inside. After a moment, he stepped into the cabin. What the devil?
 With the exception of the frightened-looking pilot in the cockpit, the aircraft was empty. Entirely 
devoid of human life. Quickly checking the bathroom, the chairs, and the luggage areas, the 
inspector found no traces of anyone hiding... much less multiple individuals.
 What the hell was Bezu Fache thinking? It seemed Leigh Teabing had been telling the truth.
 The Kent chief inspector stood alone in the deserted cabin and swallowed hard. Shit. His face 
flushed, he stepped back onto the gangway, gazing across the hangar at Leigh Teabing and his 
servant, who were now under gunpoint near the limousine. 
 the inspector ordered. 


 Teabing's eyes were menacing even across the hangar. 

 With that, Teabing's manservant opened the door at the rear of the stretch limousine and helped his 
crippled master into the back seat. Then the servant walked the length of the car, climbed in behind 
the wheel, and gunned the engine. Policemen scattered as the Jaguar peeled out of the hangar.
 
 Teabing chimed from the rear seat as the limousine accelerated out 
of the airport. He turned his eyes now to the dimly lit front recesses of the spacious interior. 


 Langdon gave a weak nod. He and Sophie were still crouched on the floor beside the bound and 
gagged albino.
Moments earlier, as the Hawker taxied into the deserted hangar, Rémy had popped the hatch as the 
plane jolted to a stop halfway through its turn. With the police closing in fast, Langdon and Sophie 
dragged the monk down the gangway to ground level and out of sight behind the limousine. Then 
the jet engines had roared again, rotating the plane and completing its turn as the police cars came 
skidding into the hangar.
 Now, as the limousine raced toward Kent, Langdon and Sophie clambered toward the rear of the 
limo's long interior, leaving the monk bound on the floor. They settled onto the long seat facing 
Teabing. The Brit gave them both a roguish smile and opened the cabinet on the limo's bar. 

 Sophie and Langdon both shook their heads.
 Teabing grinned and closed the bar. 
s tomb..."
 CHAPTER 82
 "Fleet Street?" Langdon asked, eyeing Teabing in the back of the limo. There
knight's tomb,
Miss Neveu, give the Harvard boy one more shot at the 
verse, will you?
s 
strongbox, carrying with them only what they needed, the far more portable and discreet black 
cryptex. Sophie unwrapped the vellum and handed the sheet to Langdon.
 Although Langdon had read the poem several times onboard the jet, he had been unable to extract 
any specific location. Now, as he read the words again, he processed them slowly and carefully, 
hoping the pentametric rhythms would reveal a clearer meaning now that he was on the ground.
 In London lies a knight a Pope interred.
 His labor
s final reference—Rosy flesh and seeded womb—was a clear allusion to Mary 
Magdalene, the Rose who bore the seed of Jesus.
 Despite the apparent straightforwardness of the verse, Langdon still had no idea who this knight 
was or where he was buried. Moreover, once they located the tomb, it sounded as if they would be 
searching for something that was absent. The orb that ought be on his tomb?
 "No thoughts?" Teabing clucked in disappointment, although Langdon sensed the Royal Historian 
was enjoying being one up. "Miss Neveu?"
 She shook her head.
 "What would you two do without me?" Teabing said. "Very well, I will walk you through it. It

 Langdon read aloud. 
In London lies a knight a Pope interred.

 
 He eyed Langdon. 

 Langdon shrugged. 

 Teabing laughed loudly. 
s rich. Always the optimist, Robert. Look at the second line. 
This knight obviously did something that incurred the Holy wrath of the Church. Think again. 
Consider the dynamic between the Church and the Knights Templar. A knight a Pope interred?"
 "A knight a Pope killed?" Sophie asked.
 Teabing smiled and patted her knee. "Well done, my dear. A knight a Pope buried. Or killed."
 Langdon thought of the notorious Templar round-up in 1307—unlucky Friday the 
thirteenth—when Pope Clement killed and interred hundreds of Knights Templar. "But there must 
be endless graves of 
 "
 "Aha, not so! "Teabing said. "Many of them were burned at the stake and tossed unceremoniously 
into the Tiber River. But this poem refers to a tomb. A tomb in London. And there are few knights 
buried in London." He paused, eyeing Langdon as if waiting for light to dawn. Finally he huffed. 
"Robert, for heaven
s military arm—the Knights 
Templar themselves!"
 "The Temple Church?" Langdon drew a startled breath. "It has a crypt?"
"Ten of the most frightening tombs you will ever see."
 Langdon had never actually visited the Temple Church, although he
s Temple, from which the 
Knights Templar had extracted their own title, as well as the Sangreal documents that gave them all 
their influence in Rome. Tales abounded of knights performing strange, secretive rituals within the 
Temple Church
The Temple Church is on Fleet Street?
Actually, it's just off Fleet Street on Inner Temple Lane.
I wanted 
to see you sweat a little more before I gave it away.
Thanks.
Neither of you has ever been there?
I'm not surprised,
The church is hidden now behind much larger buildings. Few 
people even know it's there. Eerie old place. The architecture is pagan to the core.
Pagan?
Pantheonically pagan!
The church is round. The Templars ignored the 
traditional Christian cruciform layout and built a perfectly circular church in honor of the sun.
A not so subtle howdy-do to the boys in Rome. They might as well 
have resurrected Stonehenge in downtown London.
What about the rest of the poem?
s mirthful air faded. "I
s puzzling. We will need to examine each of the 
ten tombs carefully. With luck, one of them will have a conspicuously absent orb."
 Langdon realized how close they really were. If the missing orb revealed the password, they would 
be able to open the second cryptex. He had a hard time imagining what they might find inside.
 Langdon eyed the poem again. It was like some kind of primordial crossword puzzle. A five-letter 
word that speaks of the Grail? On the plane, they had already tried all the obvious 
passwords—GRAIL, GRAAL, GREAL, VENUS, MARIA, JESUS, SARAH—but the cylinder had 
not budged. Far too obvious. Apparently there existed some other five-letter reference to the Rose
Sir Leigh?
You said Fleet Street is near Blackfriars Bridge?
Yes, take Victoria Embankment.
I'm sorry. I'm not sure where that is. We usually go only to the hospital.
I swear, sometimes it's like baby
sitting a child. One moment please. Help yourself to a drink and savory snacks.
Robert, nobody knows you and I are in England.
s little stunt had just bought 
them a lot of time.
 "Fache will not give up easily," Sophie said. "He has too much riding on this arrest now."
 Langdon had been trying not to think about Fache. Sophie had promised she would do everything 
in her power to exonerate Langdon once this was over, but Langdon was starting to fear it might 
not matter. Fache could easily be pan of this plot. Although Langdon could not imagine the 
Judicial Police tangled up in the Holy Grail, he sensed too much coincidence tonight to disregard 
Fache as a possible accomplice. Fache is religions, and he is intent on pinning these murders on 
me. Then again, Sophie had argued that Fache might simply be overzealous to make the arrest. 
After all, the evidence against Langdon was substantial. In addition to Langdon
s date book, Langdon now appeared to have lied about his 
manuscript and then run away. At Sophie
Robert, I'm sorry you're so deeply involved,
But I'm 
very glad you're here.
I'm a lot more fun when I've slept.
My grandfather asked me to trust you. I'm glad I listened to 
him for once.
Your grandfather didn't even know me.
Even so, I can't help but think you've done everything he would have wanted. You helped me find 
the keystone, explained the Sangreal, told me about the ritual in the basement.
Somehow I feel closer to my grandfather tonight than I have in years. I know he would be happy 
about that.
viewing capsules
s green eyes were on him. He 
realized she had been speaking to him. "What do you think we should do with the Sangreal 
documents if we ever find them?" she whispered.
 "What I think is immaterial," Langdon said. "Your grandfather gave the cryptex to you, and you 
should do with it what your instinct tells you he would want done."
 "I
s rare."
 "Maybe he wanted to tell me I have it all wrong."
 "Why would he tell me to find you unless he liked your ideas? In your manuscript, did you support 
the idea that the Sangreal documents should be revealed or stay buried?"
 "Neither. I made no judgment either way. The manuscript deals with the symbology of the sacred 
feminine—tracing her iconography throughout history. I certainly didn

 
re writing a book about it, so you obviously feel the information should be shared."
 "There
 He paused.
 

 

 

 Langdon smiled. 

 

 
m a historian. I

 
re arguing both sides of my question."
 "Am I? The Bible represents a fundamental guidepost for millions of people on the planet, in much 
the same way the Koran, Torah, and Pali Canon offer guidance to people of other religions. If you 
and I could dig up documentation that contradicted the holy stories of Islamic belief, Judaic belief, 
Buddhist belief, pagan belief, should we do that? Should we wave a flag and tell the Buddhists that 
we have proof the Buddha did not come from a lotus blossom? Or that Jesus was not born of a 
literal virgin birth? Those who truly understand their faiths understand the stories are 
metaphorical."
 Sophie looked skeptical. "My friends who are devout Christians definitely believe that Christ 
literally walked on water, literally turned water into wine, and was born of a literal virgin birth."
 "My point exactly," Langdon said. "Religious allegory has become a part of the fabric of reality. 
And living in that reality helps millions of people cope and be better people."
 "But it appears their reality is false."
 Langdon chuckled. "No more false than that of a mathematical cryptographer who believes in the 
imaginary number 
 because it helps her break codes."
 Sophie frowned. "That

 A moment passed.
 
 Langdon asked.
 
t remember."
 He smiled. "Works every time."
 CHAPTER 83
Langdon
s ancient Temple Church was constructed entirely of Caen stone. A dramatic, circular 
edifice with a daunting facade, a central turret, and a protruding nave off one side, the church 
looked more like a military stronghold than a place of worship. Consecrated on the tenth of 
February in 1185 by Heraclius, Patriarch of Jerusalem, the Temple Church survived eight centuries 
of political turmoil, the Great Fire of London, and the First World War, only to be heavily damaged 
by Luftwaffe incendiary bombs in 1940. After the war, it was restored to its original, stark 
grandeur.
 The simplicity of the circle, Langdon thought, admiring the building for the first time. The 
architecture was coarse and simple, more reminiscent of Rome
Angelo than 
the refined Pantheon. The boxy annex jutting out to the right was an unfortunate eyesore, although 
it did little to shroud the original pagan shape of the primary structure.
 "It
 Teabing said, hobbling toward the entrance, 
m assuming we won

 The church's entryway was a recessed stone niche inside which stood a large wooden door. To the 
left of the door, looking entirely out of place, hung a bulletin board covered with concert schedules 
and religious service announcements.
 Teabing frowned as he read the board. 
t open to sightseers for another couple of hours." 
He moved to the door and tried it. The door didn
Robert, check the service schedule, will you? Who is presiding this week?
t you read? The sign on 
the door clearly stated that the church did not open until nine-thirty on Saturday. The altar boy 
remained with his chores.
 Suddenly, the knocking turned to a forceful banging, as if someone were hitting the door with a 
metal rod. The young man switched off his vacuum cleaner and marched angrily toward the door. 
Unlatching it from within, he swung it open. Three people stood in the entryway. Tourists, he 
grumbled. "We open at nine-thirty."
The heavyset man, apparently the leader, stepped forward using metal crutches. "I am Sir Leigh 
Teabing," he said, his accent a highbrow, Saxonesque British. "As you are no doubt aware, I am 
escorting Mr. and Mrs. Christopher Wren the Fourth." He stepped aside, flourishing his arm toward 
the attractive couple behind them. The woman was soft-featured, with lush burgundy hair. The man 
was tall, dark-haired, and looked vaguely familiar.
 The altar boy had no idea how to respond. Sir Christopher Wren was the Temple Church
Um... an honor to meet 
you?
Good thing you're not in sales, young man, you're not very 
convincing. Where is Father Knowles?
It's Saturday. He's not due in until later.
s scowl deepened. "There
ll do it without him. It won

 The altar boy remained blocking the doorway. 
m sorry, what won

 The visitor's eyes sharpened now, and he leaned forward whispering as if to save everyone some 
embarrassment. 
s 
descendants bring a pinch of the old man

 The altar boy had been here a couple of years but had never heard of this custom. 
t open yet, and I

 The man on crutches glared angrily. 
s anything left of this 
building for you to hoover is on account of the gentleman in that woman

 
m sorry?"
 "Mrs. Wren," the man on crutches said, "would you be so kind as to show this impertinent young 
man the reliquary of ashes?"
 The woman hesitated a moment and then, as if awaking from a trance, reached in her sweater 
pocket and pulled out a small cylinder wrapped in protective fabric.
 "There, you see?" the man on crutches snapped. "Now, you can either grant his dying wish and let 
us sprinkle his ashes in the sanctuary, or I tell Father Knowles how we

The altar boy hesitated, well acquainted with Father Knowles' deep observance of church 
tradition... and, more importantly, with his foul temper when anything cast this time-honored 
shrine in anything but favorable light. Maybe Father Knowles had simply forgotten these family 
members were coming. If so, then there was far more risk in turning them away than in letting 
them in. After all, they said it would only take a minute. What harm could it do?
 When the altar boy stepped aside to let the three people pass, he could have sworn Mr. and Mrs. 
Wren looked just as bewildered by all of this as he was. Uncertain, the boy returned to his chores, 
watching them out of the corner of his eye.
 Langdon had to smile as the threesome moved deeper into the church.
 
 he whispered, 

 Teabing's eyes twinkled. 
m certain 
nobody has ever performed the first scene of Act Three with more dedication."
 Langdon glanced over. "I thought Caesar was dead in that scene."
 Teabing smirked. "Yes, but my toga tore open when I fell, and I had to lie on stage for half an hour 
with my todger hanging out. Even so, I never moved a muscle. I was brilliant, I tell you."
 Langdon cringed. Sorry I missed it.
 As the group moved through the rectangular annex toward the archway leading into the main 
church, Langdon was surprised by the barren austerity. Although the altar layout resembled that of 
a linear Christian chapel, the furnishings were stark and cold, bearing none of the traditional 
ornamentation. "Bleak," he whispered.
 Teabing chuckled. "Church of England. Anglicans drink their religion straight. Nothing to distract 
from their misery."
 Sophie motioned through the vast opening that gave way to the circular section of the church. "It 
looks like a fortress in there," she whispered.
 Langdon agreed. Even from here, the walls looked unusually robust.
 "The Knights Templar were warriors," Teabing reminded, the sound of his aluminum crutches 
echoing in this reverberant space. "A religio-military society. Their churches were their 
strongholds and their banks."
"Banks?" Sophie asked, glancing at Leigh.
 "Heavens, yes. The Templars invented the concept of modern banking. For European nobility, 
traveling with gold was perilous, so the Templars allowed nobles to deposit gold in their nearest 
Temple Church and then draw it from any other Temple Church across Europe. All they needed 
was proper documentation." He winked. "And a small commission. They were the original ATMs." 
Teabing pointed toward a stained-glass window where the breaking sun was refracting through a 
white-clad knight riding a rose-colored horse. "Alanus Marcel," Teabing said, "Master of the 
Temple in the early twelve hundreds. He and his successors actually held the Parliamentary chair 
of Primus Baro Angiae."
 Langdon was surprised. "First Baron of the Realm?"
 Teabing nodded. "The Master of the Temple, some claim, held more influence than the king 
himself." As they arrived outside the circular chamber, Teabing shot a glance over his shoulder at 
the altar boy, who was vacuuming in the distance. "You know," Teabing whispered to Sophie, "the 
Holy Grail is said to once have been stored in this church overnight while the Templars moved it 
from one hiding place to another. Can you imagine the four chests of Sangreal documents sitting 
right here with Mary Magdalene

 Langdon was feeling gooseflesh too as they stepped into the circular chamber. His eye traced the 
curvature of the chamber's pale stone perimeter, taking in the carvings of gargoyles, demons, 
monsters, and pained human faces, all staring inward. Beneath the carvings, a single stone pew 
curled around the entire circumference of the room.
 
 Langdon whispered.
 Teabing raised a crutch, pointing toward the far left of the room and then to the far right. Langdon 
had already seen them.
 Ten stone knights.
 Five on the left. Five on the right.
 Lying prone on the floor, the carved, life-sized figures rested in peaceful poses. The knights were 
depicted wearing full armor, shields, and swords, and the tombs gave Langdon the uneasy 
sensation that someone had snuck in and poured plaster over the knights while they were sleeping. 
All of the figures were deeply weathered, and yet each was clearly unique—different armory 
pieces, distinct leg and arm positions, facial features, and markings on their shields.
 In London lies a knight a Pope interred.
 Langdon felt shaky as he inched deeper into the circular room.
This had to be the place.
 CHAPTER 84
 In a rubbish-strewn alley very close to Temple Church, Rémy Legaludec pulled the Jaguar 
limousine to a stop behind a row of industrial waste bins. Killing the engine, he checked the area. 
Deserted. He got out of the car, walked toward the rear, and climbed back into the limousine's main 
cabin where the monk was.
 Sensing Rémy's presence, the monk in the back emerged from a prayer-like trance, his red eyes 
looking more curious than fearful. All evening Rémy had been impressed with this trussed man's 
ability to stay calm. After some initial struggles in the Range Rover, the monk seemed to have 
accepted his plight and given over his fate to a higher power.
 Loosening his bow tie, Rémy unbuttoned his high, starched, wing-tipped collar and felt as if he 
could breathe for the first time in years. He went to the limousine's wet bar, where he poured 
himself a Smirnoff vodka. He drank it in a single swallow and followed it with a second.
 Soon I will be a man of leisure.
 Searching the bar, Rémy found a standard service wine-opener and flicked open the sharp blade. 
The knife was usually employed to slice the lead foil from corks on fine bottles of wine, but it 
would serve a far more dramatic purpose this morning. Rémy turned and faced Silas, holding up 
the glimmering blade.
 Now those red eyes flashed fear.
 Rémy smiled and moved toward the back of the limousine. The monk recoiled, struggling against 
his bonds.
 
 Rémy whispered, raising the blade.
 Silas could not believe that God had forsaken him. Even the physical pain of being bound Silas had 
turned into a spiritual exercise, asking the throb of his blood-starved muscles to remind him of the 
pain Christ endured. I have been praying all night for liberation. Now, as the knife descended, 
Silas clenched his eyes shut.
 A slash of pain tore through his shoulder blades. He cried out, unable to believe he was going to 
die here in the back of this limousine, unable to defend himself. I was doing God's work. The 
Teacher said he would protect me.
Silas felt the biting warmth spreading across his back and shoulders and could picture his own 
blood, spilling out over his flesh. A piercing pain cut through his thighs now, and he felt the onset 
of that familiar undertow of disorientation—the body's defense mechanism against the pain.
 As the biting heat tore through all of his muscles now, Silas clenched his eyes tighter, determined 
that the final image of his life would not be of his own killer. Instead he pictured a younger Bishop 
Aringarosa, standing before the small church in Spain... the church that he and Silas had built with 
their own hands. The beginning of my life.
 Silas felt as if his body were on fire.
 
 the tuxedoed man whispered, his accent French. 

 Silas's eyes flew open in surprise. A blurry image was leaning over him, offering a glass of liquid. 
A mound of shredded duct tape lay on the floor beside the bloodless knife.
 
 he repeated. 

 Silas felt the fiery throb transforming now to a prickling sting. The vodka tasted terrible, but he 
drank it, feeling grateful. Fate had dealt Silas a healthy share of bad luck tonight, but God had 
solved it all with one miraculous twist.
 God has not forsaken me.
 Silas knew what Bishop Aringarosa would call it.
 Divine intervention.
 
 the servant apologized, 
t you, Silas?"
 Silas recoiled, startled. "You know my name?"
 The servant smiled.
 Silas sat up now, rubbing his stiff muscles, his emotions a torrent of incredulity, appreciation, and 
confusion. "Are you... the Teacher?"
 Rémy shook his head, laughing at the proposition. "I wish I had that kind of power. No, I am not 
the Teacher. Like you, I serve him. But the Teacher speaks highly of you. My name is Rémy."
Silas was amazed. "I don

 
s foremost Grail historian, Sir Leigh Teabing."
 "But you live there. The odds..."
 Rémy smiled, seeming to have no trouble with the apparent coincidence of Langdon
It was all utterly predictable. Robert Langdon was in possession of the keystone, and he 
needed help. What more logical place to run than to the home of Leigh Teabing? That I happen to 
live there is why the Teacher approached me in the first place.
How do you think the 
Teacher knows so much about the Grail?
s research. It was brilliant.
 "There is much I have to tell you," Rémy said, handing Silas the loaded Heckler Koch pistol. Then 
he reached through the open partition and retrieved a small, palm-sized revolver from the glove 
box. "But first, you and I have a job to do."
 Captain Fache descended from his transport plane at Biggin Hill and listened in disbelief to the 
Kent chief inspector
s hangar.
 "I searched the plane myself," the inspector insisted, "and there was no one inside." His tone turned 
haughty. "And I should add that if Sir Leigh Teabing presses charges against me, I will—"
 "Did you interrogate the pilot?"
 "Of course not. He is French, and our jurisdiction requires—"
 "Take me to the plane."
 Arriving at the hangar, Fache needed only sixty seconds to locate an anomalous smear of blood on 
the pavement near where the limousine had been parked. Fache walked up to the plane and rapped 
loudly on the fuselage.
 "This is the captain of the French Judicial Police. Open the door!"
 The terrified pilot opened the hatch and lowered the stairs.
 Fache ascended. Three minutes later, with the help of his sidearm, he had a full confession, 
including a description of the bound albino monk. In addition, he learned that the pilot saw 
Langdon and Sophie leave something behind in Teabing
s full attention during the flight to London.
 "Open the safe," Fache demanded.
 The pilot looked terrified. "I don

 
s too bad. I was going to offer to let you keep your pilot

 The pilot wrung his hands. 

 

 The pilot leapt for his radio.
 Fache strode to the back of the plane and poured himself a hard drink. It was early, but he had not 
yet slept, so this hardly counted as drinking before noon. Sitting in a plush bucket seat, he closed 
his eyes, trying to sort out what was going on. The Kent police's blunder could cost me dearly. 
Everyone was now on the lookout for a black Jaguar limousine.
 Fache's phone rang, and he wished for a moment's peace. 

 
m en route to London." It was Bishop Aringarosa. "I

 Fache sat up. 

 

 

 

 

 Aringarosa's anger rang sharply. 

 Fache lowered his voice. 

 
 Aringarosa covered the receiver and then came back. 
m his only passenger, but our redirect was unscheduled."
"Tell him to come to Biggin Hill Executive Airport in Kent. I
m not here 
when you land, I

 

 

 CHAPTER 85
 You seek the orb that ought be on his tomb.
 Each of the carved knights within the Temple Church lay on his back with his head resting on a 
rectangular stone pillow. Sophie felt a chill. The poem's reference to an 
 conjured images of 
the night in her grandfather's basement.
 Hieros Gamos. The orbs.
 Sophie wondered if the ritual had been performed in this very sanctuary. The circular room seemed 
custom-built for such a pagan rite. A stone pew encircled a bare expanse of floor in the middle. A 
theater in the round, as Robert had called it. She imagined this chamber at night, filled with 
masked people, chanting by torchlight, all witnessing a 
 in the center of the 
room.
 Forcing the image from her mind, she advanced with Langdon and Teabing toward the first group 
of knights. Despite Teabing's insistence that their investigation should be conducted meticulously, 
Sophie felt eager and pushed ahead of them, making a cursory walk-through of the five knights on 
the left.
 Scrutinizing these first tombs, Sophie noted the similarities and differences between them. Every 
knight was on his back, but three of the knights had their legs extended straight out while two had 
their legs crossed. The oddity seemed to have no relevance to the missing orb. Examining their 
clothing, Sophie noted that two of the knights wore tunics over their armor, while the other three 
wore ankle-length robes. Again, utterly unhelpful. Sophie turned her attention to the only other 
obvious difference—their hand positions. Two knights clutched swords, two prayed, and one had 
his arms at his side. After a long moment looking at the hands, Sophie shrugged, having seen no 
hint anywhere of a conspicuously absent orb.
 Feeling the weight of the cryptex in her sweater pocket, she glanced back at Langdon and Teabing. 
The men were moving slowly, still only at the third knight, apparently having no luck either. In no 
mood to wait, she turned away from them toward the second group of knights.
 As she crossed the open space, she quietly recited the poem she had read so many times now that it 
was committed to memory.
 In London lies a knight a Pope interred.
 His labor's fruit a Holy wrath incurred.
 You seek the orb that ought be on his tomb.
 It speaks of Rosy flesh and seeded womb.
 When Sophie arrived at the second group of knights, she found that this second group was similar 
to the first. All lay with varied body positions, wearing armor and swords.
 That was, all except the tenth and final tomb.
 Hurrying over to it, she stared down.
 No pillow. No armor. No tunic. No sword.
 
 she called, her voice echoing around the chamber. 
s something missing 
over here."
 Both men looked up and immediately began to cross the room toward her.
 "An orb?" Teabing called excitedly. His crutches clicked out a rapid staccato as he hurried across 
the room. "Are we missing an orb?"
 "Not exactly," Sophie said, frowning at the tenth tomb. "We seem to be missing an entire knight."
 Arriving beside her both men gazed down in confusion at the tenth tomb. Rather than a knight 
lying in the open air, this tomb was a sealed stone casket. The casket was trapezoidal, tapered at the 
feet, widening toward the top, with a peaked lid.
 "Why isn
 Langdon asked.
 
 Teabing said, stroking his chin. 
s been years 
since I was here."
 "This coffin," Sophie said, "looks like it was carved at the same time and by the same sculptor as 
the other nine tombs. So why is this knight in a casket rather than in the open?"
 Teabing shook his head. "One of this church

 
 the altar boy said, arriving with a perturbed look on his face. 

 Teabing scowled at the boy and turned to Langdon. 
s 
philanthropy does not buy you the time it used to, so perhaps we should take out the ashes and get 
on with it." Teabing turned to Sophie. "Mrs. Wren?"
 Sophie played along, pulling the vellum-wrapped cryptex from her pocket.
 "Now then," Teabing snapped at the boy, "if you would give us some privacy?"
 The altar boy did not move. He was eyeing Langdon closely now. "You look familiar."
 Teabing huffed. "Perhaps that is because Mr. Wren comes here every year!"
 Or perhaps, Sophie now feared, because he saw Langdon on television at the Vatican last year.
 "I have never met Mr. Wren," the altar boy declared.
 "You
 Langdon said politely. 
 Langdon spoke his lines with Teabing-esque believability.
 The altar boy's expression turned even more skeptical. 

 
m sorry?" Langdon said.
 "Of course they are tombs," Teabing declared. "What are you talking about?"
 The altar boy shook his head. "Tombs contain bodies. These are effigies. Stone tributes to real 
men. There are no bodies beneath these figures."
 "This is a crypt!" Teabing said.
 "Only in outdated history books. This was believed to be a crypt but was revealed as nothing of the 
sort during the 1950 renovation." He turned back to Langdon. "And I imagine Mr. Wren would 
know that. Considering it was his family that uncovered that fact."
 An uneasy silence fell.
It was broken by the sound of a door slamming out in the annex.
 "That must be Father Knowles," Teabing said. "Perhaps you should go see?"
 The altar boy looked doubtful but stalked back toward the annex, leaving Langdon, Sophie, and 
Teabing to eye one another gloomily.
 "Leigh," Langdon whispered. "No bodies? What is he talking about?"
 Teabing looked distraught. "I don
t imagine he knows what he is talking about. It makes no sense!"
 "Can I see the poem again?" Langdon said.
 Sophie pulled the cryptex from her pocket and carefully handed it to him.
 Langdon unwrapped the vellum, holding the cryptex in his hand while he examined the poem. 
"Yes, the poem definitely references a tomb. Not an effigy."
 "Could the poem be wrong?" Teabing asked. "Could Jacques Saunière have made the same mistake 
I just did?"
 Langdon considered it and shook his head. "Leigh, you said it yourself. This church was built by 
Templars, the military arm of the Priory. Something tells me the Grand Master of the Priory would 
have a pretty good idea if there were knights buried here."
 Teabing looked flabbergasted. "But this place is perfect." He wheeled back toward the knights. 
"We must be missing something!"
 Entering the annex, the altar boy was surprised to find it deserted. "Father Knowles?" I know I 
heard the door, he thought, moving forward until he could see the entryway.
 A thin man in a tuxedo stood near the doorway, scratching his head and looking lost. The altar boy 
gave an irritated huff, realizing he had forgotten to relock the door when he let the others in. Now 
some pathetic sod had wandered in off the street, looking for directions to some wedding from the 
looks of it. "I
 he called out, passing a large pillar, 
re closed."
 A flurry of cloth ruffled behind him, and before the altar boy could turn, his head snapped 
backward, a powerful hand clamping hard over his mouth from behind, muffling his scream. The 
hand over the boy
s forehead.
 The altar boy felt his groin grow hot and realized he had wet himself.
 "Listen carefully," the tuxedoed man whispered. "You will exit this church silently, and you will 
run. You will not stop. Is that clear?"
 The boy nodded as best he could with the hand over his mouth.
 "If you call the police..." The tuxedoed man pressed the gun to his skin. "I will find you."
 The next thing the boy knew, he was sprinting across the outside courtyard with no plans of 
stopping until his legs gave out.
 CHAPTER 86
 Like a ghost, Silas drifted silently behind his target. Sophie Neveu sensed him too late. Before she 
could turn, Silas pressed the gun barrel into her spine and wrapped a powerful arm across her chest, 
pulling her back against his hulking body. She yelled in surprise. Teabing and Langdon both turned 
now, their expressions astonished and fearful.
 "What...?" Teabing choked out. "What did you do to Rémy!"
 "Your only concern," Silas said calmly, "is that I leave here with the keystone." This recovery 
mission, as Rémy had described it, was to be clean and simple: Enter the church, take the keystone, 
and walk out; no killing, no struggle.
 Holding Sophie firm, Silas dropped his hand from her chest, down to her waist, slipping it inside 
her deep sweater pockets, searching. He could smell the soft fragrance of her hair through his own 
alcohol-laced breath. "Where is it?" he whispered. The keystone was in her sweater pocket earlier. 
So where is it now?
 "It
 Langdon's deep voice resonated from across the room.
 Silas turned to see Langdon holding the black cryptex before him, waving it back and forth like a 
matador tempting a dumb animal.
 
 Silas demanded.
 
 Langdon replied. 

Silas pushed Sophie away from him and aimed the gun at Langdon, moving toward him.
 
 Langdon said. 

 

 
 Langdon raised the cryptex high over his head. 

 Although Silas sneered outwardly at the threat, he felt a flash of fear. This was unexpected. He 
aimed the gun at Langdon's head and kept his voice as steady as his hand. 

 
re wrong. You want it much more. You
re willing to kill for it."
 Forty feet away, peering out from the annex pews near the archway, Rémy Legaludec felt a rising 
alarm. The maneuver had not gone as planned, and even from here, he could see Silas was 
uncertain how to handle the situation. At the Teacher
Let them go,
s gun.
 The monk
s ticket to freedom and wealth. A little over a year ago, he was simply 
a fifty-five-year-old manservant living within the walls of Château Villette, catering to the whims 
of the insufferable cripple Sir Leigh Teabing. Then he was approached with an extraordinary 
proposition. Rémy
s hand. If Langdon dropped it, all would be lost.
 Am I willing to show my face? It was something the Teacher had strictly forbidden. Rémy was the 
only one who knew the Teacher
Are you certain you want Silas to carry out this task?
I myself am capable.
Silas served us well with the four Priory members. He will recover the 
keystone. You must remain anonymous. If others see you, they will need to be eliminated, and there 
has been enough killing already. Do not reveal your face.
ve promised to pay me, I will become an 
entirely new man. Surgery could even change his fingerprints, the Teacher had told him. Soon he 
would be free—another unrecognizable, beautiful face soaking up the sun on the beach. 
"Understood," Rémy said. "I will assist Silas from the shadows."
 "For your own knowledge, Rémy," the Teacher had told him, "the tomb in question is not in the 
Temple Church. So have no fear. They are looking in the wrong place."
 Rémy was stunned. "And you know where the tomb is?"
 "Of course. Later, I will tell you. For the moment, you must act quickly. If the others figure out the 
true location of the tomb and leave the church before you take the cryptex, we could lose the Grail 
forever."
 Rémy didn
Azur, where he planned to live out his days basking in the sun and letting others serve him for a 
change.
 Now, however, here in the Temple Church, with Langdon threatening to break the keystone, 
Rémy
s head. "Old man, I

 Sir Leigh Teabing's heart practically stalled to see Rémy aiming a gun at him. What is he doing! 
Teabing recognized the tiny Medusa revolver as his own, the one he kept locked in the limousine 
glove box for safety.
 
 Teabing sputtered in shock. 

 Langdon and Sophie looked equally dumbstruck.
Rémy circled behind Teabing and rammed the pistol barrel into his back, high and on the left, 
directly behind his heart.
 Teabing felt his muscles seize with terror. 
t—"
 "I
 Rémy snapped, eyeing Langdon over Teabing's shoulder. 

 Langdon seemed momentarily paralyzed. 
 he stammered. 

 
 Rémy sneered. 

 Teabing felt panicked. What is he saying!
 
 Langdon demanded. 

 Rémy called to the monk. 

 As the monk advanced, Langdon stepped back, raising the keystone high, looking fully prepared to 
hurl it at the floor.
 
 Langdon said, 

 Teabing now felt a wave of horror. He could see his life's work evaporating before his eyes. All his 
dreams about to be shattered.
 
 Teabing exclaimed. 
t! That
re holding! Rémy would never shoot 
me. We

 Rémy aimed at the ceiling and fired the Medusa. The blast was enormous for such a small weapon, 
the gunshot echoing like thunder inside the stone chamber.
 Everyone froze.
 
 Rémy said. 

 Langdon reluctantly held out the cryptex. Silas stepped forward and took it, his red eyes gleaming 
with the self-satisfaction of vengeance. Slipping the keystone in the pocket of his robe, Silas 
backed off, still holding Langdon and Sophie at gunpoint.
Teabing felt Rémy's arm clamp hard around his neck as the servant began backing out of the 
building, dragging Teabing with him, the gun still pressed in his back.
 
 Langdon demanded.
 
re taking Mr. Teabing for a drive," Rémy said, still backing up. "If you call the police, he will 
die. If you do anything to interfere, he will die. Is that clear?"
 "Take me," Langdon demanded, his voice cracking with emotion. "Let Leigh go."
 Rémy laughed. "I don

 Silas was backing up now, keeping Langdon and Sophie at gunpoint as Rémy pulled Leigh toward 
the exit, his crutches dragging behind him.
 Sophie's voice was unwavering. 

 The question brought a smirk to the departing Rémy's face. 

 CHAPTER 87
 The fireplace in Château Villette's drawing room was cold, but Collet paced before it nonetheless 
as he read the faxes from Interpol.
 Not at all what he expected.
 André Vernet, according to official records, was a model citizen. No police record—not even a 
parking ticket. Educated at prep school and the Sorbonne, he had a cum laude degree in 
international finance. Interpol said Vernet's name appeared in the newspapers from time to time, 
but always in a positive light. Apparently the man had helped design the security parameters that 
kept the Depository Bank of Zurich a leader in the ultramodern world of electronic security. 
Vernet's credit card records showed a penchant for art books, expensive wine, and classical 
CD's—mostly Brahms—which he apparently enjoyed on an exceptionally high-end stereo system 
he had purchased several years ago.
 Zero, Collet sighed.
The only red flag tonight from Interpol had been a set of fingerprints that apparently belonged to 
Teabing's servant. The chief PTS examiner was reading the report in a comfortable chair across the 
room.
 Collet looked over. 

 The examiner shrugged. 
 He glanced up, chuckling. 

 Collet nodded, recalling a police investigation into a restaurant that had failed to notate on its menu 
that the chili recipe contained peanut oil. An unsuspecting patron had died of anaphylactic shock at 
the table after a single bite.
 
 The examiner looked amused. 


 Collet sighed. 

 The examiner headed off just as another PTS agent burst into the living room. 

 From the anxious look on the agent's face, Collet could only guess. 

 
 He hesitated. 

 Rubbing his eyes, Collet followed the agent out to the barn. As they entered the musty, cavernous 
space, the agent motioned toward the center of the room, where a wooden ladder now ascended 
high into the rafters, propped against the ledge of a hayloft suspended high above them.
 
t there earlier," Collet said.
 "No, sir. I set that up. We were dusting for prints near the Rolls when I saw the ladder lying on the 
floor. I wouldn

 Collet's eyes climbed the ladder's steep incline to the soaring hayloft. Someone goes up there 
regularly? From down here, the loft appeared to be a deserted platform, and yet admittedly most of 
it was invisible from this line of sight.
 A senior PTS agent appeared at the top of the ladder, looking down. 
ll definitely want to see 
this, Lieutenant," he said, waving Collet up with a latex-gloved hand.
 Nodding tiredly, Collet walked over to the base of the old ladder and grasped the bottom rungs. 
The ladder was an antique tapered design and narrowed as Collet ascended. As he neared the top, 
Collet almost lost his footing on a thin rung. The barn below him spun. Alert now, he moved on, 
finally reaching the top. The agent above him reached out, offering his wrist. Collet grabbed it and 
made the awkward transition onto the platform.
 "It
 the PTS agent said, pointing deep into the immaculately clean loft. 
ll have an ID shortly."
 Collet squinted through the dim light toward the far wall. What the hell? Nestled against the far 
wall sat an elaborate computer workstation—two tower CPUs, a flat-screen video monitor with 
speakers, an array of hard drives, and a multichannel audio console that appeared to have its own 
filtered power supply.
 Why in the world would anyone work all the way up here? Collet moved toward the gear. "Have 
you examined the system?"
 "It

 Collet spun. 

 The agent nodded. 
 He motioned to a long project table strewn with 
electronic parts, manuals, tools, wires, soldering irons, and other electronic components. 
s doing. A lot of this gear is as sophisticated as our own equipment. 
Miniature microphones, photoelectric recharging cells, high-capacity RAM chips. He

 Collet was impressed.
 
s a complete system," the agent said, handing Collet an assembly not much larger than a 
pocket calculator. Dangling off the contraption was a foot-long wire with a stamp-sized piece of 
wafer-thin foil stuck on the end. "The base is a high-capacity hard disk audio recording system 
with rechargeable battery. That strip of foil at the end of the wire is a combination microphone and 
photoelectric recharging cell."
 Collet knew them well. These foil-like, photocell microphones had been an enormous breakthrough 
a few years back. Now, a hard disk recorder could be affixed behind a lamp, for example, with its 
foil microphone molded into the contour of the base and dyed to match. As long as the microphone 
was positioned such that it received a few hours of sunlight per day, the photo cells would keep 
recharging the system. Bugs like this one could listen indefinitely.
"Reception method?" Collet asked.
 The agent signaled to an insulated wire that ran out of the back of the computer, up the wall, 
through a hole in the barn roof. "Simple radio wave. Small antenna on the roof."
 Collet knew these recording systems were generally placed in offices, were voice-activated to save 
hard disk space, and recorded snippets of conversation during the day, transmitting compressed 
audio files at night to avoid detection. After transmitting, the hard drive erased itself and prepared 
to do it all over again the next day.
 Collet
Do 
you have any idea what target is being bugged?
Well, Lieutenant,
It's 
the strangest thing....
s in enormous danger.
 Rémy
s for the same reason I did. Throughout 
history, those who held knowledge of the Grail had always been magnets for thieves and scholars 
alike. The fact that Teabing had been a target all along should have made Langdon feel less guilty 
about involving him. It did not. We need to find Leigh and help him. Immediately.
 Langdon followed Sophie to the westbound District and Circle Line platform, where she hurried to 
a pay phone to call the police, despite Rémy
The best way to help Leigh,
is to involve the London authorities 
immediately. Trust me.
s logic 
began to make sense. Teabing was safe at the moment. Even if Rémy and the others knew where 
the knight
s help deciphering the orb reference. 
What worried Langdon was what would happen after the Grail map had been found. Leigh will 
become a huge liability.
 If Langdon were to have any chance of helping Leigh, or of ever seeing the keystone again, it was 
essential that he find the tomb first. Unfortunately, Rémy has a big head start.
 Slowing Rémy down had become Sophie
s.
 Sophie would make Rémy and Silas fugitives of the London police, forcing them into hiding or, 
better yet, catching them. Langdon
s 
College, which was renowned for its electronic theological database. The ultimate research tool, 
Langdon had heard. Instant answers to any religious historical question. He wondered what the 
database would have to say about "a knight a Pope interred."
 He stood up and paced, wishing the train would hurry.
 At the pay phone, Sophie
Snow Hill Division,
How may I direct your call?
I'm reporting a kidnapping.
Name please?
Agent Sophie Neveu with the French Judicial Police.
Right away, ma'am. Let me get a detective on the line for you.
s captors. A man in a tuxedo. How much easier to identify could a suspect be? Even if 
Rémy changed clothes, he was partnered with an albino monk. Impossible to miss. Moreover, they 
had a hostage and could not take public transportation. She wondered how many Jaguar stretch 
limos there could be in London.
 Sophie
Agent Neveu?
Agent Neveu,
Where the hell are you?
Listen,
I made a terrible mistake tonight. Robert 
Langdon is innocent. All charges against him have been dropped. Even so, both of you are in 
danger. You need to come in.
s jaw fell slack. She had no idea how to respond. Fache was not a man who apologized for 
anything.
 "You did not tell me," Fache continued, "that Jacques Saunière was your grandfather. I fully intend 
to overlook your insubordination last night on account of the emotional stress you must be under. 
At the moment, however, you and Langdon need to go to the nearest London police headquarters 
for refuge."
 He knows I
Are you tracing this call, 
Captain?
s voice was firm now. "You and I need to cooperate, Agent Neveu. We both have a lot to 
lose here. This is damage control. I made errors in judgment last night, and if those errors result in 
the deaths of an American professor and a DCPJ cryptologist, my career will be over. I

 A warm wind was now pushing through the station as a train approached with a low rumble. 
Sophie had every intention of being on it. Langdon apparently had the same idea; he was gathering 
himself together and moving toward her now.
 
 Sophie said. 
s servant. He just kidnapped 
Teabing inside the Temple Church and—"
 "Agent Neveu!" Fache bellowed as the train thundered into the station. "This is not something to 
discuss on an open line. You and Langdon will come in now. For your own well-being! That is a 
direct order!"
 Sophie hung up and dashed with Langdon onto the train.
CHAPTER 89
 The immaculate cabin of Teabing
s safe.
 Running his finger across the inlaid Rose, he lifted the ornate lid. Inside he found a stone cylinder 
with lettered dials. The five dials were arranged to spell SOFIA. Fache stared at the word a long 
moment and then lifted the cylinder from its padded resting place and examined every inch. Then, 
pulling slowly on the ends, Fache slid off one of the end caps. The cylinder was empty.
 Fache set it back in the box and gazed absently out the jet
d received from PTS in Château 
Villette. The sound of his phone shook him from his daydream.
 It was the DCPJ switchboard. The dispatcher was apologetic. The president of the Depository Bank 
of Zurich had been calling repeatedly, and although he had been told several times that the captain 
was in London on business, he just kept calling. Begrudgingly Fache told the operator to forward 
the call.
 "Monsieur Vernet," Fache said, before the man could even speak, "I am sorry I did not call you 
earlier. I have been busy. As promised, the name of your bank has not appeared in the media. So 
what precisely is your concern?"
 Vernet
Then when I heard on 
the radio that they were criminals,
I pulled over and demanded the box back, but 
they attacked me and stole the truck.
You are concerned for a wooden box,
Can you tell me what was in the box?
The contents are immaterial,
I am concerned with the reputation of my bank. 
We have never had a robbery. Ever. It will ruin us if I cannot recover this property on behalf of my 
client.
You said Agent Neveu and Robert Langdon had a password and a key. What makes you say they 
stole the box?
They murdered people tonight. Including Sophie Neveu's grandfather. The key and password 
were obviously ill-gotten.
Mr. Vernet, my men have done some checking into your background and your interests. You are 
obviously a man of great culture and refinement. I would imagine you are a man of honor, as well. 
As am I. That said, I give you my word as commanding officer of the Police Judiciaire that your 
box, along with your bank's reputation, are in the safest of hands.
This 
system is eavesdropping on all these locations?
Yes,
It looks like data has been collected for over a year now.
Number four is of obvious concern.
Have you heard any of the audio files?
A few. Here's one of the most recent.
Capitaine, un agent du Département de Cryptographie est arrivé.
That's me! That's my voice!
s 
desk and radioing Fache in the Grand Gallery to alert him of Sophie Neveu
A lot of our Louvre investigation tonight would have been audible if someone 
had been interested.
Have you sent anyone in to sweep for the bug?
No need. I know exactly where it is.
Look familiar?
s desk!
 Collet
s seat 
beside Silas.
 "Secure?" Silas asked.
 Rémy chuckled, shaking off the rain and glancing over his shoulder through the open partition at 
the crumpled form of Leigh Teabing, who was barely visible in the shadows in the rear. "He

 Silas could hear Teabing's muffled cries and realized Rémy had used some of the old duct tape to 
gag him.
 
 Rémy shouted over his shoulder at Teabing. Reaching to a control panel on the 
elaborate dash, Rémy pressed a button. An opaque partition raised behind them, sealing off the 
back. Teabing disappeared, and his voice was silenced. Rémy glanced at Silas. 
ve been listening 
to his miserable whimpering long enough."
 Minutes later, as the Jaguar stretch limo powered through the streets, Silas
Hello?
Silas,
s familiar French accent said, "I am relieved to hear your voice. This means 
you are safe."
 Silas was equally comforted to hear the Teacher. It had been hours, and the operation had veered 
wildly off course. Now, at last, it seemed to be back on track. "I have the keystone."
 "This is superb news," the Teacher told him. "Is Rémy with you?"
 Silas was surprised to hear the Teacher use Rémy
Yes. Rémy freed me.
As I ordered him to do. I am only sorry you had to endure captivity for so long.
Physical discomfort has no meaning. The important thing is that the keystone is ours.
Yes. I need it delivered to me at once. Time is of the essence.
Yes, sir, I would be honored.
Silas, I would like Rémy to bring it to me.
I sense your disappointment,
which tells me you do not understand my 
meaning.
You must believe that I would much prefer to 
receive the keystone from you—a man of God rather than a criminal—but Rémy must be dealt 
with. He disobeyed my orders and made a grave mistake that has put our entire mission at risk.
You and I are men of God,
We cannot be deterred from our goal.
For this reason alone, I will ask Rémy to bring me the 
keystone. Do you understand?
s voice and was surprised the man was not more understanding. 
Showing his face could not be avoided, Silas thought. Rémy did what he had to do. He saved the 
keystone. "I understand," Silas managed.
 "Good. For your own safety, you need to get off the street immediately. The police will be looking 
for the limousine soon, and I do not want you caught. Opus Dei has a residence in London, no?"
 "Of course."
"And you are welcome there?"
 "As a brother."
 "Then go there and stay out of sight. I will call you the moment I am in possession of the keystone 
and have attended to my current problem."
 "You are in London?"
 "Do as I say, and everything will be fine."
 "Yes, sir."
 The Teacher heaved a sigh, as if what he now had to do was profoundly regrettable. "It

 Silas handed Rémy the phone, sensing it might be the last call Rémy Legaludec ever took.
 As Rémy took the phone, he knew this poor, twisted monk had no idea what fate awaited him now 
that he had served his purpose.
 The Teacher used you, Silas.
 And your bishop is a pawn.
 Rémy still marveled at the Teacher's powers of persuasion. Bishop Aringarosa had trusted 
everything. He had been blinded by his own desperation. Aringarosa was far too eager to believe. 
Although Rémy did not particularly like the Teacher, he felt pride at having gained the man's trust 
and helped him so substantially. I have earned my payday.
 
 the Teacher said. 
s Park. It is adjacent to Parliament and Big Ben. You can 
park the limousine on Horse Guards Parade. We

 With that, the connection went dead.
 CHAPTER 92
King's College, established by King George IV in 1829, houses its Department of Theology and 
Religious Studies adjacent to Parliament on property granted by the Crown. King's College 
Religion Department boasts not only 150 years' experience in teaching and research, but the 1982 
establishment of the Research Institute in Systematic Theology, which possesses one of the most 
complete and electronically advanced religious research libraries in the world.
 Langdon still felt shaky as he and Sophie came in from the rain and entered the library. The 
primary research room was as Teabing had described it—a dramatic octagonal chamber dominated 
by an enormous round table around which King Arthur and his knights might have been 
comfortable were it not for the presence of twelve flat-screen computer workstations. On the far 
side of the room, a reference librarian was just pouring a pot of tea and settling in for her day of 
work.
 
 she said in a cheerful British accent, leaving the tea and walking over. 

 
 Langdon replied. 

 
 She gave a pleasant smile. 

 For an instant, he feared Fache had put him on English television as well, but the librarian's smile 
suggested otherwise. Langdon still had not gotten used to these moments of unexpected celebrity. 
Then again, if anyone on earth were going to recognize his face, it would be a librarian in a 
Religious Studies reference facility.
 
 the librarian said, offering her hand. She had a genial, erudite face and a 
pleasingly fluid voice. The horn-rimmed glasses hanging around her neck were thick.
 
 Langdon said. 

 The two women greeted one another, and Gettum turned immediately back to Langdon. 
t 
know you were coming."
 "Neither did we. If it

 Gettum shifted, looking uncertain. 
re the guest of someone at the college?"
 Langdon shook his head. "I
ve come unannounced. A friend of mine speaks very 
highly of you. Sir Leigh Teabing?" Langdon felt a pang of gloom as he said the name. "The British 
Royal Historian."
Gettum brightened now, laughing. "Heavens, yes. What a character. Fanatical! Every time he 
comes in, it
 She winked. 
t 
you say? A regular Don Quixote, that one."
 "Is there any chance you can help us?" Sophie asked. "It

 Gettum glanced around the deserted library and then winked at them both. 
t very well 
claim I
t imagine anyone being too upset. 
What did you have in mind?"
 "We

 Gettum looked dubious. 
ve got about twenty thousand of them. Can you be a little more 
specific?"
 "It
t have a name."
 "A knight. That tightens the net substantially. Much less common."
 "We don
re looking for," Sophie said, "but this is 
what we know." She produced a slip of paper on which she had written only the first two lines of 
the poem.
 Hesitant to show the entire poem to an outsider, Langdon and Sophie had decided to share just the 
first two lines, those that identified the knight. Compartmentalized cryptography, Sophie had called 
it. When an intelligence agency intercepted a code containing sensitive data, cryptographers each 
worked on a discrete section of the code. This way, when they broke it, no single cryptographer 
possessed the entire deciphered message.
 In this case, the precaution was probably excessive; even if this librarian saw the entire poem, 
identified the knight
s fruit a Holy wrath incurred.
 She glanced at her guests. "What is this? Some kind of Harvard scavenger hunt?"
 Langdon
Yeah, something like that.
According to this rhyme, a knight did something that 
incurred displeasure with God, and yet a Pope was kind enough to bury him in London.
Does it ring any bells?
Not offhand, but let's see what we can pull up in 
the database.
s College Research Institute in Systematic Theology had used 
optical character recognition software in unison with linguistic translation devices to digitize and 
catalog an enormous collection of texts—encyclopedias of religion, religious biographies, sacred 
scriptures in dozens of languages, histories, Vatican letters, diaries of clerics, anything at all that 
qualified as writings on human spirituality. Because the massive collection was now in the form of 
bits and bytes rather than physical pages, the data was infinitely more accessible.
 Settling into one of the workstations, Gettum eyed the slip of paper and began typing. "To begin, 
we

 

 Gettum typed in a few words:
 LONDON, KNIGHT, POPE
 As she clicked the SEARCH button, she could feel the hum of the massive mainframe downstairs 
scanning data at a rate of 500 MB/sec. 
m asking the system to show us any documents whose 
complete text contains all three of these keywords. We
s a good 
place to start."
 The screen was already showing the first of the hits now.
 Painting the Pope. The Collected Portraits of Sir Joshua Reynolds. London University Press.
Gettum shook her head. "Obviously not what you
 She scrolled to the next hit.
 The London Writings of Alexander Pope by G. Wilson Knight.
 Again she shook her head.
 As the system churned on, the hits came up more quickly than usual. Dozens of texts appeared, 
many of them referencing the eighteenth-century British writer Alexander Pope, whose 
counterreligious, mock-epic poetry apparently contained plenty of references to knights and 
London.
 Gettum shot a quick glance to the numeric field at the bottom of the screen. This computer, by 
calculating the current number of hits and multiplying by the percentage of the database left to 
search, provided a rough guess of how much information would be found. This particular search 
looked like it was going to return an obscenely large amount of data.
 Estimated number of total hits: 2,692
 
 Gettum said, stopping the search. 
s nothing else to go on?"
 Langdon glanced at Sophie Neveu, looking uncertain.
 This is no scavenger hunt, Gettum sensed. She had heard the whisperings of Robert Langdon
You are friends with Leigh Teabing, you are in England, 
and you are looking for a knight.
I can only assume you are on a Grail 
quest.
My friends, this library is a base camp for Grail seekers. Leigh Teabing among 
them. I wish I had a shilling for every time I'd run searches for the Rose, Mary Magdalene, 
Sangreal, Merovingian, Priory of Sion, et cetera, et cetera. Everyone loves a conspiracy.
I need more information.
 desire for discretion was quickly being outweighed by 
their eagerness for a fast result.
 "Here," Sophie Neveu blurted. "This is everything we know." Borrowing a pen from Langdon, she 
wrote two more lines on the slip of paper and handed it to Gettum.
 You seek the orb that ought be on his tomb.
 It speaks of Rosy flesh and seeded womb.
 Gettum gave an inward smile. The Grail indeed, she thought, noting the references to the Rose and 
her seeded womb. "I can help you," she said, looking up from the slip of paper. "Might I ask where 
this verse came from? And why you are seeking an orb?"
 "You might ask," Langdon said, with a friendly smile, "but it

 
mind your own business.

 
 Langdon said, 

 
 Gettum said, typing again. 
ll play along. If this is a Grail-related issue, we should 
cross-reference against Grail keywords. I

 Search for: KNIGHT, LONDON, POPE, TOMB
 Within 100 word proximity of: GRAIL, ROSE, SANGREAL, CHALICE
 
 Sophie asked.
 
 Gettum's eyes glimmered as she 
clicked the SEARCH key. 

 Langdon and Sophie said nothing, but Gettum sensed this sounded like an eternity to them.
 
 Gettum asked, standing and walking toward the pot she had made earlier. 

CHAPTER 93
 London's Opus Dei Centre is a modest brick building at 5 Orme Court, overlooking the North Walk 
at Kensington Gardens. Silas had never been here, but he felt a rising sense of refuge and asylum as 
he approached the building on foot. Despite the rain, Rémy had dropped him off a short distance 
away in order to keep the limousine off the main streets. Silas didn't mind the walk. The rain was 
cleansing.
 At Rémy's suggestion, Silas had wiped down his gun and disposed of it through a sewer grate. He 
was glad to get rid of it. He felt lighter. His legs still ached from being bound all that time, but 
Silas had endured far greater pain. He wondered, though, about Teabing, whom Rémy had left 
bound in the back of the limousine. The Briton certainly had to be feeling the pain by now.
 
 Silas had asked Rémy as they drove over here.
 Rémy had shrugged. 
 There was an odd finality in his tone.
 Now, as Silas approached the Opus Dei building, the rain began to fall harder, soaking his heavy 
robe, stinging the wounds of the day before. He was ready to leave behind the sins of the last 
twenty-four hours and purge his soul. His work was done.
 Moving across a small courtyard to the front door, Silas was not surprised to find the door 
unlocked. He opened it and stepped into the minimalist foyer. A muted electronic chime sounded 
upstairs as Silas stepped onto the carpet. The bell was a common feature in these halls where the 
residents spent most of the day in their rooms in prayer. Silas could hear movement above on the 
creaky wood floors.
 A man in a cloak came downstairs. 
 He had kind eyes that seemed not even to 
register Silas's startling physical appearance.
 

 

 Silas nodded. 

 

 
 Silas was famished.
 Silas went upstairs to a modest room with a window, where he took off his wet robe and knelt 
down to pray in his undergarments. He heard his host come up and lay a tray outside his door. Silas 
finished his prayers, ate his food, and lay down to sleep.
 Three stories below, a phone was ringing. The Opus Dei numerary who had welcomed Silas 
answered the line.
 
 the caller said. 
ve had a tip
off that he might be there. Have you seen him?"
 The numerary was startled. "Yes, he is here. Is something wrong?"
 "He is there now?"
 "Yes, upstairs praying. What is going on?"
 "Leave him precisely where he is," the officer commanded. "Don
m 
sending officers over right away."
 CHAPTER 94
 St. James
s. Once enclosed by King Henry VIII and stocked with 
deer for the hunt, St. James
s resident pelicans, whose ancestors were a gift to 
Charles II from the Russian ambassador.
 The Teacher saw no pelicans today. The stormy weather had brought instead seagulls from the 
ocean. The lawns were covered with them—hundreds of white bodies all facing the same direction, 
patiently riding out the damp wind. Despite the morning fog, the park afforded splendid views of 
the Houses of Parliament and Big Ben. Gazing across the sloping lawns, past the duck pond and 
the delicate silhouettes of the weeping willows, the Teacher could see the spires of the building that 
housed the knight
It was almost lost.
You have done well,
We have done well,
s eager hands.
 The Teacher admired it a long moment, smiling. "And the gun? You wiped it down?"
 "Back in the glove box where I found it."
 "Excellent." The Teacher took another drink of cognac and handed the flask to Rémy. "Let

 Rémy accepted the bottle gratefully. The cognac tasted salty, but Rémy didn't care. He and the 
Teacher were truly partners now. He could feel himself ascending to a higher station in life. I will 
never be a servant again. As Rémy gazed down the embankment at the duck pond below, Château 
Villette seemed miles away.
 Taking another swig from the flask, Rémy could feel the cognac warming his blood. The warmth in 
Rémy's throat, however, mutated quickly to an uncomfortable heat. Loosening his bow tie, Rémy 
tasted an unpleasant grittiness and handed the flask back to the Teacher. 
ve probably had 
enough," he managed, weakly.
 Taking the flask, the Teacher said, "Rémy, as you are aware, you are the only one who knows my 
face. I placed enormous trust in you."
 "Yes," he said, feeling feverish as he loosened his tie further. "And your identity shall go with me 
to the grave."
 The Teacher was silent a long moment. "I believe you." Pocketing the flask and the keystone, the 
Teacher reached for the glove box and pulled out the tiny Medusa revolver. For an instant, Rémy 
felt a surge of fear, but the Teacher simply slipped it in his trousers pocket.
 What is he doing? Rémy felt himself sweating suddenly.
 "I know I promised you freedom," the Teacher said, his voice now sounding regretful. "But 
considering your circumstances, this is the best I can do."
 The swelling in Rémy
m being murdered!
Incredulous, Rémy turned to see the Teacher sitting calmly beside him, staring straight ahead out 
the windshield. Rémy
s actions in the Temple Church that had made the Teacher lose faith, Rémy would 
never know. Terror and rage coursed through him now. Rémy tried to lunge for the Teacher, but 
his stiffening body could barely move. I trusted you with everything!
 Rémy tried to lift his clenched fists to blow the horn, but instead he slipped sideways, rolling onto 
the seat, lying on his side beside the Teacher, clutching at his throat. The rain fell harder now. 
Rémy could no longer see, but he could sense his oxygen-deprived brain straining to cling to his 
last faint shreds of lucidity. As his world slowly went black, Rémy Legaludec could have sworn he 
heard the sounds of the soft Riviera surf.
 The Teacher stepped from the limousine, pleased to see that nobody was looking in his direction. I 
had no choice, he told himself, surprised how little remorse he felt for what he had just done. Rémy 
sealed his own fate. The Teacher had feared all along that Rémy might need to be eliminated when 
the mission was complete, but by brazenly showing himself in the Temple Church, Rémy had 
accelerated the necessity dramatically. Robert Langdon
s prints were all over Château Villette, as well as in the barn
s activities and his own. Nobody could 
implicate the Teacher unless Rémy talked, and that was no longer a concern.
 One more loose end to tie up here, the Teacher thought, moving now toward the rear door of the 
limousine. The police will have no idea what happened... and no living witness left to tell them. 
Glancing around to ensure nobody was watching, he pulled open the door and climbed into the 
spacious rear compartment.
 Minutes later, the Teacher was crossing St. James
s conversations for months now, the Teacher had heard the Grand Master mention this 
famous knight on occasion, expressing esteem almost matching that he held for Da Vinci. The 
poem
s wit—and 
yet how this tomb would reveal the final password was still a mystery.
 You seek the orb that ought be on his tomb.
 The Teacher vaguely recalled photos of the famous tomb and, in particular, its most distinguishing 
feature. A magnificent orb. The huge sphere mounted atop the tomb was almost as large as the 
tomb itself. The presence of the orb seemed both encouraging and troubling to the Teacher. On one 
hand, it felt like a signpost, and yet, according to the poem, the missing piece of the puzzle was an 
orb that ought to be on his tomb... not one that was already there. He was counting on his closer 
inspection of the tomb to unveil the answer.
 The rain was getting heavier now, and he tucked the cryptex deep in his right-hand pocket to 
protect it from the dampness. He kept the tiny Medusa revolver in his left, out of sight. Within 
minutes, he was stepping into the quiet sanctuary of London
Bishop Aringarosa? Captain Fache had to leave. He asked me to look after you. He suggested I 
take you to Scotland Yard. He thought it would be safest.
Yes, thank you.
Take me there at once!
s eyes had not left the computer screen since the search began.
 Five minutes. Only two hits. Both irrelevant.
 He was starting to get worried.
 Pamela Gettum was in the adjoining room, preparing hot drinks. Langdon and Sophie had inquired 
unwisely if there might be some coffee brewing alongside the tea Gettum had offered, and from the 
sound of the microwave beeps in the next room, Langdon suspected their request was about to be 
rewarded with instant Nescafe.
 Finally, the computer pinged happily.
 "Sounds like you got another," Gettum called from the next room. "What

 Langdon eyed the screen.
 Grail Allegory in Medieval Literature: A Treatise on Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.
 
 he called back.
 
 Gettum said. 

 Langdon and Sophie sat patiently in front of the screen and waited through two more dubious 
returns. When the computer pinged again, though, the offering was unexpected.
 DIE OPERN VON RICHARD WAGNER
 
 Sophie asked.
 Gettum peeked back in the doorway, holding a packet of instant coffee. 

 
 Langdon said, feeling a sudden intrigue. 
 Along with 
Mozart, Beethoven, Shakespeare, Gershwin, Houdini, and Disney. Volumes had been written about 
the ties between the Masons and the Knights Templar, the Priory of Sion, and the Holy Grail. 


t want the full text," Gettum called. "Click on the hypertext title. The computer will 
display your keyword hits along with mono prelogs and triple postlogs for context."
 Langdon had no idea what she had just said, but he clicked anyway.
 A new window popped up.
 ...mythological knight named Parsifal who...
 ...metaphorical Grail quest that arguably...
 ...the London Philharmonic in 1855...
 Rebecca Pope
Diva's...
 ...Wagner's tomb in Bayreuth, Germany...
 
 Langdon said, disappointed. Even so, he was amazed by the system's ease of use. 
The keywords with context were enough to remind him that Wagner's opera Parsifal was a tribute 
to Mary Magdalene and the bloodline of Jesus Christ, told through the story of a young knight on a 
quest for truth.
 
 Gettum urged. 
s a numbers game. Let the machine run."
 Over the next few minutes, the computer returned several more Grail references, including a text 
about troubadours—France
ministers
our Lady
Not surprising,
Some of our keywords have the same names as 
individual cards.
I'm not sure if your 
grandfather ever mentioned it when you played Tarot with him, Sophie, but this game is a 'flash
card catechism' into the story of the Lost Bride and her subjugation by the evil Church.
I had no idea.
That's the point. By teaching through a metaphorical game, the followers of the Grail disguised 
their message from the watchful eye of the Church.
s four suits of swords, cups, scepters, and pentacles.
 Spades were Swords—The blade. Male.
 Hearts were Cups—The chalice. Feminine.
 Clubs were Scepters—The Royal Line. The flowering staff.
 Diamonds were Pentacles—The goddess. The sacred feminine.
 Four minutes later, as Langdon began feeling fearful they would not find what they had come for, 
the computer produced another hit.
 The Gravity of Genius: Biography of a Modern Knight.
 "Gravity of Genius?" Langdon called out to Gettum. "Bio of a modern knight?"
 Gettum stuck her head around the corner. "How modern? Please don
s your Sir Rudy 
Giuliani. Personally, I found that one a bit off the mark."
 Langdon had his own qualms about the newly knighted Sir Mick Jagger, but this hardly seemed the 
moment to debate the politics of modern British knighthood. "Let
 Langdon 
summoned up the hypertext keywords.
 ... honorable knight, Sir Isaac Newton...
 ... in London in 1727 and...
 ... his tomb in Westminster Abbey...
 ... Alexander Pope, friend and colleague...
 
modern
 Sophie called to Gettum. 
s an old book. About Sir Isaac 
Newton."
 Gettum shook her head in the doorway. "No good. Newton was buried in Westminster Abbey, the 
seat of English Protestantism. There

 Sophie nodded.
Gettum waited. 

 Langdon's heart was hammering. He pulled his eyes from the screen and stood up. 

 Sophie remained seated. 

 
 Langdon said. 

 
 Sophie pointed to the poem. 

 Langdon reached for the mouse. 
 He clicked on the 

 hyperlink, and the complete sentence appeared.
 Sir Isaac Newton's burial, attended by kings and nobles, was presided 
over by Alexander Pope, friend and colleague, who gave a stirring 
eulogy before sprinkling dirt on the tomb.
 Langdon looked at Sophie. 
 He paused. 


 In London lies a knight A. Pope interred.
 Sophie stood up, looking stunned.
 Jacques Saunière, the master of double-entendres, had proven once again that he was a 
frighteningly clever man.
 CHAPTER 96
 Silas awoke with a start.
 He had no idea what had awoken him or how long he had been asleep. Was I dreaming? Sitting up 
now on his straw mat, he listened to the quiet breathing of the Opus Dei residence hall, the stillness 
textured only by the soft murmurs of someone praying aloud in a room below him. These were 
familiar sounds and should have comforted him.
 And yet he felt a sudden and unexpected wariness.
 Standing, wearing only his undergarments, Silas walked to the window. Was I followed? The 
courtyard below was deserted, exactly as he had seen it when he entered. He listened. Silence. So 
why am I uneasy? Long ago Silas had learned to trust his intuition. Intuition had kept him alive as a 
child on the streets of Marseilles long before prison... long before he was born again by the hand of 
Bishop Aringarosa. Peering out the window, he now saw the faint outline of a car through the 
hedge. On the car's roof was a police siren. A floorboard creaked in the hallway. A door latch 
moved.
 Silas reacted on instinct, surging across the room and sliding to a stop just behind the door as it 
crashed open. The first police officer stormed through, swinging his gun left then right at what 
appeared an empty room. Before he realized where Silas was, Silas had thrown his shoulder into 
the door, crushing a second officer as he came through. As the first officer wheeled to shoot, Silas 
dove for his legs. The gun went off, the bullet sailing above Silas's head, just as he connected with 
the officer's shins, driving his legs out from under him, and sending the man down, his head hitting 
the floor. The second officer staggered to his feet in the doorway, and Silas drove a knee into his 
groin, then went clambering over the writhing body into the hall.
 Almost naked, Silas hurled his pale body down the staircase. He knew he had been betrayed, but by 
whom? When he reached the foyer, more officers were surging through the front door. Silas turned 
the other way and dashed deeper into the residence hall. The women's entrance. Every Opus Dei 
building has one. Winding down narrow hallways, Silas snaked through a kitchen, past terrified 
workers, who left to avoid the naked albino as he knocked over bowls and silverware, bursting into 
a dark hallway near the boiler room. He now saw the door he sought, an exit light gleaming at the 
end.
 Running full speed through the door out into the rain, Silas leapt off the low landing, not seeing the 
officer coming the other way until it was too late. The two men collided, Silas's broad, naked 
shoulder grinding into the man's sternum with crushing force. He drove the officer backward onto 
the pavement, landing hard on top of him. The officer's gun clattered away. Silas could hear men 
running down the hall shouting. Rolling, he grabbed the loose gun just as the officers emerged. A 
shot rang out on the stairs, and Silas felt a searing pain below his ribs. Filled with rage, he opened 
fire at all three officers, their blood spraying.
 A dark shadow loomed behind, coming out of nowhere. The angry hands that grabbed at his bare 
shoulders felt as if they were infused with the power of the devil himself. The man roared in his 
ear. SILAS, NO!
 Silas spun and fired. Their eyes met. Silas was already screaming in horror as Bishop Aringarosa 
fell.
CHAPTER 97
 More than three thousand people are entombed or enshrined within Westminster Abbey. The 
colossal stone interior burgeons with the remains of kings, statesmen, scientists, poets, and 
musicians. Their tombs, packed into every last niche and alcove, range in grandeur from the most 
regal of mausoleums—that of Queen Elizabeth I, whose canopied sarcophagus inhabits its own 
private, apsidal chapel—down to the most modest etched floor tiles whose inscriptions have worn 
away with centuries of foot traffic, leaving it to one's imagination whose relics might lie below the 
tile in the undercroft.
 Designed in the style of the great cathedrals of Amiens, Chartres, and Canterbury, Westminster 
Abbey is considered neither cathedral nor parish church. It bears the classification of royal 
peculiar, subject only to the Sovereign. Since hosting the coronation of William the Conqueror on 
Christmas Day in 1066, the dazzling sanctuary has witnessed an endless procession of royal 
ceremonies and affairs of state—from the canonization of Edward the Confessor, to the marriage of 
Prince Andrew and Sarah Ferguson, to the funerals of Henry V, Queen Elizabeth I, and Lady 
Diana.
 Even so, Robert Langdon currently felt no interest in any of the abbey's ancient history, save one 
event—the funeral of the British knight Sir Isaac Newton.
 In London lies a knight a Pope interred.
 Hurrying through the grand portico on the north transept, Langdon and Sophie were met by guards 
who politely ushered them through the abbey's newest addition—a large walk-through metal 
detector—now present in most historic buildings in London. They both passed through without 
setting off the alarm and continued to the abbey entrance.
 Stepping across the threshold into Westminster Abbey, Langdon felt the outside world evaporate 
with a sudden hush. No rumble of traffic. No hiss of rain. Just a deafening silence, which seemed to 
reverberate back and forth as if the building were whispering to itself.
 Langdon's and Sophie's eyes, like those of almost every visitor, shifted immediately skyward, 
where the abbey's great abyss seemed to explode overhead. Gray stone columns ascended like 
redwoods into the shadows, arching gracefully over dizzying expanses, and then shooting back 
down to the stone floor. Before them, the wide alley of the north transept stretched out like a deep 
canyon, flanked by sheer cliffs of stained glass. On sunny days, the abbey floor was a prismatic 
patchwork of light. Today, the rain and darkness gave this massive hollow a wraithlike aura... more 
like that of the crypt it truly was.

s practically empty," Sophie whispered.
 Langdon felt disappointed. He had hoped for a lot more people. A more public place. Their earlier 
experience in the deserted Temple Church was not one Langdon wanted to repeat. He had been 
anticipating a certain feeling of security in the popular tourist destination, but Langdon
We passed through metal detectors,
s 
apprehension. "If anyone is in here, they can

 Langdon nodded but still felt circumspect. He had wanted to bring the London police with them, 
but Sophie's fears of who might be involved put a damper on any contact with the authorities. We 
need to recover the cryptex, Sophie had insisted. It is the key to everything.
 She was right, of course.
 The key to getting Leigh back alive.
 The key to finding the Holy Grail.
 The key to learning who is behind this.
 Unfortunately, their only chance to recover the keystone seemed to be here and now... at the tomb 
of Isaac Newton. Whoever held the cryptex would have to pay a visit to the tomb to decipher the 
final clue, and if they had not already come and gone, Sophie and Langdon intended to intercept 
them.
 Striding toward the left wall to get out of the open, they moved into an obscure side aisle behind a 
row of pilasters. Langdon couldn't shake the image of Leigh Teabing being held captive, probably 
tied up in the back of his own limousine. Whoever had ordered the top Priory members killed 
would not hesitate to eliminate others who stood in the way. It seemed a cruel irony that 
Teabing—a modern British knight—was a hostage in the search for his own countryman, Sir Isaac 
Newton.
 
 Sophie asked, looking around.
 The tomb. Langdon had no idea. 

 Langdon knew better than to wander aimlessly in here. Westminster Abbey was a tangled warren 
of mausoleums, perimeter chambers, and walk-in burial niches. Like the Louvre's Grand Gallery, it 
had a lone point of entry—the door through which they had just passed—easy to find your way in, 
but impossible to find your way out. A literal tourist trap, one of Langdon's befuddled colleagues 
had called it. Keeping architectural tradition, the abbey was laid out in the shape of a giant crucifix. 
Unlike most churches, however, it had its entrance on the side, rather than the standard rear of the 
church via the narthex at the bottom of the nave. Moreover, the abbey had a series of sprawling 
cloisters attached. One false step through the wrong archway, and a visitor was lost in a labyrinth 
of outdoor passageways surrounded by high walls.
 
 Langdon said, approaching the center of the church. Peering 
obliquely across the towering gilded altar to the far end of the south transept, Langdon saw several 
people crawling on their hands and knees. This prostrate pilgrimage was a common occurrence in 
Poets' Corner, although it was far less holy than it appeared. Tourists doing grave rubbings.
 
t see any docents," Sophie said. "Maybe we can find the tomb on our own?"
 Without a word, Langdon led her another few steps to the center of the abbey and pointed to the 
right.
 Sophie drew a startled breath as she looked down the length of the abbey
Aah,
Let's find a docent.
s tomb consisted of a massive black-marble sarcophagus on which reclined the sculpted 
form of Sir Isaac Newton, wearing classical costume, and leaning proudly against a stack of his 
own books—Divinity, Chronology, Opticks, and Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica. 
At Newton
s recumbent body rose 
an austere pyramid. Although the pyramid itself seemed an oddity, it was the giant shape mounted 
halfway up the pyramid that most intrigued the Teacher.
 An orb.
 The Teacher pondered Saunière
a knight a pope interred.
s concentration was broken by several approaching tourists. He slipped the cryptex 
back in his pocket and watched warily as the visitors went to a nearby table, left a donation in the 
cup, and restocked on the complimentary grave-rubbing supplies set out by the abbey. Armed with 
fresh charcoal pencils and large sheets of heavy paper, they headed off toward the front of the 
abbey, probably to the popular Poets
s star-filled canopy.
 What orb ought to be here... and yet is missing? He touched the cryptex in his pocket as if he could 
somehow divine the answer from Saunière
s meaning and come to 
Newton
s metal detectors had blared as the Teacher passed 
through with the concealed gun. Also as expected, the guards had backed off at once when the 
Teacher glared indignantly and flashed his identification card. Official rank always commanded the 
proper respect.
Although initially the Teacher had hoped to solve the cryptex alone and avoid any further 
complications, he now sensed that the arrival of Langdon and Neveu was actually a welcome 
development. Considering the lack of success he was having with the "orb" reference, he might be 
able to use their expertise. After all, if Langdon had deciphered the poem to find the tomb, there 
was a reasonable chance he also knew something about the orb. And if Langdon knew the 
password, then it was just a matter of applying the right pressure.
 Not here, of course.
 Somewhere private.
 The Teacher recalled a small announcement sign he had seen on his way into the abbey. 
Immediately he knew the perfect place to lure them.
 The only question now... what to use as bait.
 CHAPTER 98
 Langdon and Sophie moved slowly down the north aisle, keeping to the shadows behind the ample 
pillars that separated it from the open nave. Despite having traveled more than halfway down the 
nave, they still had no clear view of Newton
At least there's nobody over there,
s tomb was deserted. "I
 he whispered. 

 Sophie had already stepped from the shadows and was headed across the open floor.
 
 Langdon sighed, hurrying to join her.
 Crossing the massive nave on a diagonal, Langdon and Sophie remained silent as the elaborate 
sepulchre revealed itself in tantalizing increments... a black-marble sarcophagus... a reclining statue 
of Newton... two winged boys... a huge pyramid... and... an enormous orb.
 
 Sophie said, sounding startled.
 Langdon shook his head, also surprised.
 
 Sophie said.
As they approached the niche, Langdon felt a slow sinking sensation. Newton's tomb was covered 
with orbs—stars, comets, planets. You seek the orb that ought be on his tomb? It could turn out to 
be like trying to find a missing blade of grass on a golf course.
 
 Sophie said, looking concerned. 

 Langdon frowned. The only link between the planets and the Grail that Langdon could imagine 
was the pentacle of Venus, and he had already tried the password 
 en route to the Temple 
Church.
 Sophie moved directly to the sarcophagus, but Langdon hung back a few feet, keeping an eye on 
the abbey around them.
 
 Sophie said, tilting her head and reading the titles of the books on which Newton was 
leaning. 
 She turned to 
him. 

 Langdon stepped closer, considering it. 

 
 Sophie asked, pointing to the constellations on the orb. 
t you?"
 The End of Days, Langdon thought. "The end of Pisces and the beginning of Aquarius was 
allegedly the historical marker at which the Priory planned to release the Sangreal documents to the 
world." But the millennium came and went without incident, leaving historians uncertain when the 
truth was coming.
 "It seems possible," Sophie said, "that the Priory

 It speaks of Rosy flesh and seeded womb. Langdon felt a shiver of potential. He had not considered 
the line that way before.
 
 she said, 
s plans to unveil the truth about 
 and her fertile womb was linked directly to the position of planets—orbs."
 Langdon nodded, feeling the first faint wisps of possibility materializing. Even so, his intuition told 
him astronomy was not the key. The Grand Master
s ultimate secret—would prove to be not only 
symbolically fitting but also crystal clear. If this solution were anything like the others, it would be 
painfully obvious once it dawned.
 "Look!" Sophie gasped, jarring his thoughts as she grabbed his arm. From the fear in her touch 
Langdon sensed someone must be approaching, but when he turned to her, she was staring aghast 
at the top of the black marble sarcophagus. "Someone was here," she whispered, pointing to a spot 
on the sarcophagus near Newton
s foot. It
s feet, shimmered a barely visible charcoal-pencil 
message:
 I have Teabing.
 Go through Chapter House,
 out south exit, to public garden.
 Langdon read the words twice, his heart pounding wildly.
 Sophie turned and scanned the nave.
 Despite the pall of trepidation that settled over him upon seeing the words, Langdon told himself 
this was good news. Leigh is still alive. There was another implication here too. "They don
 he whispered.
 Sophie nodded. Otherwise why make their presence known?
 

 
s a trap."
 Langdon shook his head. "I don
 Langdon had once visited the abbey's famous College Garden—a small fruit orchard and 
herb garden—left over from the days when monks grew natural pharmacological remedies here. 
Boasting the oldest living fruit trees in Great Britain, College Garden was a popular spot for 
tourists to visit without having to enter the abbey. 

Sophie looked dubious. 

 Langdon scowled. She had a point.
 Gazing back at the orb-filled tomb, Langdon wished he had some idea about the cryptex 
password... something with which to negotiate. I got Leigh involved in this, and I'll do whatever it 
takes if there is a chance to help him.
 
 Sophie said. 

 The idea was a good one. Langdon vaguely recalled the Chapter House as a huge octagonal hall 
where the original British Parliament convened in the days before the modern Parliament building 
existed. It had been years since he had been there, but he remembered it being out through the 
cloister somewhere. Taking several steps back from the tomb, Langdon peered around the choir 
screen to his right, across the nave to the side opposite that which they had descended.
 A gaping vaulted passageway stood nearby, with a large sign.
 THIS WAY TO:
 CLOISTERS
 DEANERY
 COLLEGE HALL
 MUSEUM
 PYX CHAMBER
 ST. FAITH'S CHAPEL
 CHAPTER HOUSE
 Langdon and Sophie were jogging as they passed beneath the sign, moving too quickly to notice 
the small announcement apologizing that certain areas were closed for renovations.
 They emerged immediately into a high-walled, open-roof courtyard through which morning rain 
was falling. Above them, the wind howled across the opening with a low drone, like someone 
blowing over the mouth of a bottle. Entering the narrow, low-hanging walkways that bordered the 
courtyard perimeter, Langdon felt the familiar uneasiness he always felt in enclosed spaces. These 
walkways were called cloisters, and Langdon noted with uneasiness that these particular cloisters 
lived up to their Latin ties to the word claustrophobic.
 Focusing his mind straight ahead toward the end of the tunnel, Langdon followed the signs for the 
Chapter House. The rain was spitting now, and the walkway was cold and damp with gusts of rain 
that blew through the lone pillared wall that was the cloister's only source of light. Another couple 
scurried past them the other way, hurrying to get out of the worsening weather. The cloisters 
looked deserted now, admittedly the abbey's least enticing section in the wind and rain.
 Forty yards down the east cloister, an archway materialized on their left, giving way to another 
hallway. Although this was the entrance they were looking for, the opening was cordoned off by a 
swag and an official-looking sign.
 CLOSED FOR RENOVATION
 PYX CHAMBER
 ST. FAITH'S CHAPEL
 CHAPTER HOUSE
 The long, deserted corridor beyond the swag was littered with scaffolding and drop cloths. 
Immediately beyond the swag, Langdon could see the entrances to the Pyx Chamber and St. Faith's 
Chapel on the right and left. The entrance to the Chapter House, however, was much farther away, 
at the far end of the long hallway. Even from here, Langdon could see that its heavy wooden door 
was wide open, and the spacious octagonal interior was bathed in a grayish natural light from the 
room's enormous windows that looked out on College Garden. Go through Chapter House, out 
south exit, to public garden.
 
 Langdon said, 

 Sophie was already stepping over the swag and moving forward.
 As they hurried down the dark corridor, the sounds of the wind and rain from the open cloister 
faded behind them. The Chapter House was a kind of satellite structure—a freestanding annex at 
the end of the long hallway to ensure the privacy of the Parliament proceedings housed there.
 
 Sophie whispered as they approached.
 Langdon had forgotten just how large this room was. Even from outside the entrance, he could 
gaze across the vast expanse of floor to the breathtaking windows on the far side of the octagon, 
which rose five stories to a vaulted ceiling. They would certainly have a clear view of the garden 
from in here.
 Crossing the threshold, both Langdon and Sophie found themselves having to squint. After the 
gloomy cloisters, the Chapter House felt like a solarium. They were a good ten feet into the room, 
searching the south wall, when they realized the door they had been promised was not there.
 They were standing in an enormous dead end.
The creaking of a heavy door behind them made them turn, just as the door closed with a 
resounding thud and the latch fell into place.
 The lone man who had been standing behind the door looked calm as he aimed a small revolver at 
them. He was portly and was propped on a pair of aluminum crutches.
 For a moment Langdon thought he must be dreaming.
 It was Leigh Teabing.
 CHAPTER 99
 Sir Leigh Teabing felt rueful as he gazed out over the barrel of his Medusa revolver at Robert 
Langdon and Sophie Neveu. 
 he said, 
s way. But your persistence 
has now put me in a difficult position."
 He could see the expressions of shock and betrayal on Sophie
s faces, and yet he 
was confident that soon they would both understand the chain of events that had guided the three of 
them to this unlikely crossroads.
 There is so much I have to tell you both... so much you do not yet understand.
 "Please believe," Teabing said, "I never had any intention of your being involved. You came to my 
home. You came searching for me."
 "Leigh?" Langdon finally managed. "What the hell are you doing? We thought you were in trouble. 
We came here to help you!"
 "As I trusted you would," he said. "We have much to discuss."
 Langdon and Sophie seemed unable to tear their stunned gazes from the revolver aimed at them.
 "It is simply to ensure your full attention," Teabing said. "If I had wanted to harm you, you would 
be dead by now. When you walked into my home last night, I risked everything to spare your lives. 
I am a man of honor, and I vowed in my deepest conscience only to sacrifice those who had 
betrayed the Sangreal."
 "What are you talking about?" Langdon said. "Betrayed the Sangreal?"
 "I discovered a terrible truth," Teabing said, sighing. "I learned why the Sangreal documents were 
never revealed to the world. I learned that the Priory had decided not to release the truth after all. 
That

 Langdon drew a breath, about to protest.
 
 Teabing continued, 
 Teabing 
turned to Sophie. 

 
 Sophie declared, glancing up now, her green eyes boring into him with rage and 
realization. 
s murder?"
 Teabing scoffed. "Your grandfather and his sénéchaux were traitors to the Grail."
 Sophie felt a fury rising from deep within. He
s voice was relentless. "Your grandfather sold out to the Church. It is obvious they 
pressured him to keep the truth quiet."
 Sophie shook her head. "The Church had no influence on my grandfather!"
 Teabing laughed coldly. "My dear, the Church has two thousand years of experience pressuring 
those who threaten to unveil its lies. Since the days of Constantine, the Church has successfully 
hidden the truth about Mary Magdalene and Jesus. We should not be surprised that now, once 
again, they have found a way to keep the world in the dark. The Church may no longer employ 
crusaders to slaughter non-believers, but their influence is no less persuasive. No less insidious." 
He paused, as if to punctuate his next point. "Miss Neveu, for some time now your grandfather has 
wanted to tell you the truth about your family."
 Sophie was stunned. "How could you know that?"
 "My methods are immaterial. The important thing for you to grasp right now is this." He took a 
deep breath. "The deaths of your mother, father, grandmother, and brother were not accidental."
 The words sent Sophie
What are you saying?
Robert, it explains everything. All the pieces fit. History repeats itself. The Church has a 
precedent of murder when it comes to silencing the Sangreal. With the End of Days imminent, 
killing the Grand Master's loved ones sent a very clear message. Be quiet, or you and Sophie are 
next.
It was a car accident,
An 
accident!
Bedtime stories to protect your innocence,
Consider that only two family 
members went untouched—the Priory's Grand Master and his lone granddaughter—the perfect pair 
to provide the Church with control over the brotherhood. I can only imagine the terror the Church 
wielded over your grandfather these past years, threatening to kill you if he dared release the 
Sangreal secret, threatening to finish the job they started unless Saunière influenced the Priory to 
reconsider its ancient vow.
Leigh,
certainly you have no proof that the Church had 
anything to do with those deaths, or that it influenced the Priory's decision to remain silent.
Proof?
You want proof the Priory was influenced? The new millennium has 
arrived, and yet the world remains ignorant! Is that not proof enough?
s words, Sophie heard another voice speaking. Sophie, I must tell you the 
truth about your family. She realized she was trembling. Could this possibly be that truth her 
grandfather had wanted to tell her? That her family had been murdered? What did she truly know 
about the crash that took her family? Only sketchy details. Even the stories in the newspaper had 
been vague. An accident? Bedtime stories? Sophie flashed suddenly on her grandfather
You suspected he was being manipulated,
So 
you murdered him?
I did not pull the trigger,
Saunière was dead years ago, when the Church stole his 
family from him. He was compromised. Now he is free of that pain, released from the shame 
caused by his inability to carry out his sacred duty. Consider the alternative. Something had to be 
done. Shall the world be ignorant forever? Shall the Church be allowed to cement its lies into our 
history books for all eternity? Shall the Church be permitted to influence indefinitely with murder 
and extortion? No, something needed to be done! And now we are poised to carry out Saunière's 
legacy and right a terrible wrong.
The three of us. Together.
How could you possibly believe that we would help you?
Because, my dear, you are the reason the Priory failed to release the documents. Your 
grandfather's love for you prevented him from challenging the Church. His fear of reprisal against 
his only remaining family crippled him. He never had a chance to explain the truth because you 
rejected him, tying his hands, making him wait. Now you owe the world the truth. You owe it to 
the memory of your grandfather.
s family to silence 
the Priory? Langdon felt certain the modern Church did not murder people. There had to be some 
other explanation.
 "Let Sophie leave," Langdon declared, staring at Leigh. "You and I should discuss this alone."
 Teabing gave an unnatural laugh. "I
 He propped himself fully on his crutches, gracelessly keeping the gun 
aimed at Sophie, and removed the keystone from his pocket. He swayed a bit as he held it out for 
Langdon. 

 Robert felt wary and didn't move. Leigh is giving the keystone back to us?
 
 Teabing said, thrusting it awkwardly toward Langdon.
 Langdon could imagine only one reason Teabing would give it back. 

 Teabing was shaking his head. 

 Despite Teabing's pleas for cooperation and trust, his gun remained trained on Sophie as Langdon 
stepped forward and accepted the cold marble cylinder. The vinegar inside gurgled as Langdon 
grasped it and stepped backward. The dials were still in random order, and the cryptex remained 
locked.
 Langdon eyed Teabing. 
t smash it right now?"
 Teabing
I should have realized your threat to break it in the Temple 
Church was an empty one. Robert Langdon would never break the keystone. You are an historian, 
Robert. You are holding the key to two thousand years of history—the lost key to the Sangreal. 
You can feel the souls of all the knights burned at the stake to protect her secret. Would you have 
them die in vain? No, you will vindicate them. You will join the ranks of the great men you 
admire—Da Vinci, Botticelli, Newton—each of whom would have been honored to be in your 
shoes right now. The contents of the keystone are crying out to us. Longing to be set free. The time 
has come. Destiny has led us to this moment.
I cannot help you, Leigh. I have no idea how to open this. I only saw Newton's tomb for a 
moment. And even if I knew the password...
You would not tell me?
I am disappointed and surprised, Robert, that you do 
not appreciate the extent to which you are in my debt. My task would have been far simpler had 
Rémy and I eliminated you both when you walked into Château Villette. Instead I risked 
everything to take the nobler course.
This is noble?
Saunière's fault,
He and his sénéchaux lied to Silas. Otherwise, I would have 
obtained the keystone without complication. How was I to imagine the Grand Master would go to 
such ends to deceive me and bequeath the keystone to an estranged granddaughter?
Someone so unqualified to hold this knowledge that she required a 
symbologist baby-sitter.
Fortunately, Robert, your 
involvement turned out to be my saving grace. Rather than the keystone remaining locked in the 
depository bank forever, you extracted it and walked into my home.
When I learned Saunière left you a dying message, I had a pretty good 
idea you were holding valuable Priory information. Whether it was the keystone itself, or 
information on where to find it, I was not sure. But with the police on your heels, I had a sneaking 
suspicion you might arrive on my doorstep.
And if we had not?
I was formulating a plan to extend you a helping hand. One way or another, the keystone was 
coming to Château Villette. The fact that you delivered it into my waiting hands only serves as 
proof that my cause is just.
What!
Silas was supposed to break in and steal the keystone from you in Château Villette—thus 
removing you from the equation without hurting you, and exonerating me from any suspicion of 
complicity. However, when I saw the intricacy of Saunière's codes, I decided to include you both in 
my quest a bit longer. I could have Silas steal the keystone later, once I knew enough to carry on 
alone.
The Temple Church,
s orders had been clear—stay out of sight while Silas recovers the keystone. 
Unfortunately, Langdon
s true identity and was easily fooled into taking 
him from the church and then watching naively as Rémy pretended to tie their hostage in the back 
of the limousine. With the soundproof divider raised, Teabing was able to phone Silas in the front 
seat, use the fake French accent of the Teacher, and direct Silas to go straight to Opus Dei. A 
simple anonymous tip to the police was all it would take to remove Silas from the picture.
 One loose end tied up.
 The other loose end was harder. Rémy.
 Teabing struggled deeply with the decision, but in the end Rémy had proven himself a liability. 
Every Grail quest requires sacrifice. The cleanest solution had been staring Teabing in the face 
from the limousine
s deadly allergy. When Rémy 
parked the limo on Horse Guards Parade, Teabing climbed out of the back, walked to the side 
passenger door, and sat in the front next to Rémy. Minutes later, Teabing got out of the car, 
climbed into the rear again, cleaned up the evidence, and finally emerged to carry out the final 
phase of his mission.
 Westminster Abbey had been a short walk, and although Teabing
Mes amis,
vous ne trouvez pas le Saint-Graal, c'est le 
Saint-Graal qui vous trouve.
Our paths together could not be more clear. The Grail 
has found us.
Listen. Can you hear it? The Grail is speaking to us across the 
centuries. She is begging to be saved from the Priory's folly. I implore you both to recognize this 
opportunity. There could not possibly be three more capable people assembled at this moment to 
break the final code and open the cryptex.
We need to swear an 
oath together. A pledge of faith to one another. A knight's allegiance to uncover the truth and make 
it known.
s eyes and spoke in a steely tone. "I will never swear an oath with 
my grandfather

 Teabing's heart turned grave, then resolute. 
 He 
turned and aimed the gun at Langdon. 

 CHAPTER 100
 Bishop Manuel Aringarosa's body had endured many kinds of pain, and yet the searing heat of the 
bullet wound in his chest felt profoundly foreign to him. Deep and grave. Not a wound of the 
flesh... but closer to the soul.
 He opened his eyes, trying to see, but the rain on his face blurred his vision. Where am I? He could 
feel powerful arms holding him, carrying his limp body like a rag doll, his black cassock flapping.
Lifting a weary arm, he mopped his eyes and saw the man holding him was Silas. The great albino 
was struggling down a misty sidewalk, shouting for a hospital, his voice a heartrending wail of 
agony. His red eyes were focused dead ahead, tears streaming down his pale, blood-spattered face.
 
 Aringarosa whispered, 
re hurt."
 Silas glanced down, his visage contorted in anguish. "I am so very sorry, Father." He seemed 
almost too pained to speak.
 "No, Silas," Aringarosa replied. "It is I who am sorry. This is my fault." The Teacher promised me 
there would be no killing, and I told you to obey him fully. "I was too eager. Too fearful. You and I 
were deceived." The Teacher was never going to deliver us the Holy Grail.
 Cradled in the arms of the man he had taken in all those years ago, Bishop Aringarosa felt himself 
reel back in time. To Spain. To his modest beginnings, building a small Catholic church in Oviedo 
with Silas. And later, to New York City, where he had proclaimed the glory of God with the 
towering Opus Dei Center on Lexington Avenue.
 Five months ago, Aringarosa had received devastating news. His life
s Astronomy Library with his head held high, fully expecting to 
be lauded by throngs of welcoming hands, all eager to pat him on the back for his superior work 
representing Catholicism in America.
 But only three people were present.
 The Vatican secretariat. Obese. Dour.
 Two high-ranking Italian cardinals. Sanctimonious. Smug.
 "Secretariat?" Aringarosa said, puzzled.
 The rotund overseer of legal affairs shook Aringarosa
Please, make yourself comfortable.
I am not skilled in small talk, Bishop,
so let me be direct about the reason 
for your visit.
Please. Speak openly.
As you are well aware,
His Holiness and others in Rome have been 
concerned lately with the political fallout from Opus Dei's more controversial practices.
s great dismay, had turned out to be a distressingly fervent 
voice for liberal change in the Church.
 "I want to assure you," the secretariat added quickly, "that His Holiness does not seek to change 
anything about the way you run your ministry."
 I should hope not! "Then why am I here?"
 The enormous man sighed. "Bishop, I am not sure how to say this delicately, so I will state it 
directly. Two days ago, the Secretariat Council voted unanimously to revoke the Vatican

 Aringarosa was certain he had heard incorrectly. 

 

 

 
 He paused. 

 Bishop Aringarosa was stupefied. 

 

 

 

 Aringarosa shot to his feet. 

 
 the secretariat said, his tone appeasing, 

 
 The insinuation offended Aringarosa deeply.
 

 
 Aringarosa demanded. 

 One of the cardinals glanced up. 
m sorry, did you say reason?"
 Aringarosa leaned across the table, sharpening his tone to a point. "Do you really wonder why 
Catholics are leaving the Church? Look around you, Cardinal. People have lost respect. The rigors 
of faith are gone. The doctrine has become a buffet line. Abstinence, confession, communion, 
baptism, mass—take your pick—choose whatever combination pleases you and ignore the rest. 
What kind of spiritual guidance is the Church offering?"
 "Third-century laws," the second cardinal said, "cannot be applied to the modern followers of 
Christ. The rules are not workable in today

 

 
 the secretariat said, his voice conclusive. 
s relationship with the previous Pope, His Holiness will be giving Opus Dei six 
months to voluntarily break away from the Vatican. I suggest you cite your differences of opinion 
with the Holy See and establish yourself as your own Christian organization."
 "I refuse!" Aringarosa declared. "And I

 
m afraid His Holiness no longer cares to meet with you."
 Aringarosa stood up. "He would not dare abolish a personal prelature established by a previous 
Pope!"
 "I
 The secretariat's eyes did not flinch. 

 Aringarosa had staggered from that meeting in bewilderment and panic. Returning to New York, 
he stared out at the skyline in disillusionment for days, overwhelmed with sadness for the future of 
Christianity.
 It was several weeks later that he received the phone call that changed all that. The caller sounded 
French and identified himself as the Teacher—a title common in the prelature. He said he knew of 
the Vatican's plans to pull support from Opus Dei.
 How could he know that? Aringarosa wondered. He had hoped only a handful of Vatican power 
brokers knew of Opus Dei's impending annulment. Apparently the word was out. When it came to 
containing gossip, no walls in the world were as porous as those surrounding Vatican City.
 
 the Teacher whispered, 
 He paused. 

 The Lord taketh away... and the Lord giveth. Aringarosa felt a glorious ray of hope. 

 Bishop Aringarosa was unconscious when the doors of St. Mary's Hospital hissed open. Silas 
lurched into the entryway delirious with exhaustion. Dropping to his knees on the tile floor, he 
cried out for help. Everyone in the reception area gaped in wonderment at the half-naked albino 
offering forth a bleeding clergyman.
 The doctor who helped Silas heave the delirious bishop onto a gurney looked gloomy as he felt 
Aringarosa's pulse. 
s lost a lot of blood. I am not hopeful."
 Aringarosa
My child...
s soul thundered with remorse and rage. "Father, if it takes my lifetime, I will find the one 
who deceived us, and I will kill him."
 Aringarosa shook his head, looking sad as they prepared to wheel him away. "Silas... if you have 
learned nothing from me, please... learn this." He took Silas
Forgiveness is God's greatest gift.
But Father...
Silas, you must pray.
s gun.
 Robert, are you with me, or against me? The Royal Historian
s mind.
 There was no viable response, Langdon knew. Answer yes, and he would be selling out Sophie. 
Answer no, and Teabing would have no choice but to kill them both.
 Langdon
s vast empty spaces. Neutral 
ground. He hoped his focus on the cryptex signaled Teabing that collaboration might be an option, 
and that his silence signaled Sophie he had not abandoned her.
 All the while buying time to think.
 The act of thinking, Langdon suspected, was exactly what Teabing wanted him to do. That
s cryptex would make Langdon fully grasp the magnitude of its 
contents, coaxing his academic curiosity to overwhelm all else, forcing him to realize that failure to 
unlock the keystone would mean the loss of history itself.
 With Sophie at gunpoint across the room, Langdon feared that discovering the cryptex
s tomb.
 You seek the orb that ought be on his tomb.
 It speaks of Rosy flesh and seeded womb.
 Turning his back to the others, he walked toward the towering windows, searching for any 
inspiration in their stained-glass mosaics. There was none.
 Place yourself in Saunière
s tomb? Images of stars, comets, and planets 
twinkled in the falling rain, but Langdon ignored them. Saunière was not a man of science. He was 
a man of humanity, of art, of history. The sacred feminine... the chalice... the Rose... the banished 
Mary Magdalene... the decline of the goddess... the Holy Grail.
 Legend had always portrayed the Grail as a cruel mistress, dancing in the shadows just out of sight, 
whispering in your ear, luring you one more step and then evaporating into the mist.
 Gazing out at the rustling trees of College Garden, Langdon sensed her playful presence. The signs 
were everywhere. Like a taunting silhouette emerging from the fog, the branches of Britain
s eagerness to 
meet privately with Langdon could mean only one thing. Langdon
s attack would accomplish two goals. It would prevent 
Saunière from persuading Langdon to keep quiet, and it would ensure that once the keystone was 
in Teabing
s deepest fears. Yesterday afternoon, Silas had phoned the curator and 
posed as a distraught priest. "Monsieur Saunière, forgive me, I must speak to you at once. I should 
never breach the sanctity of the confessional, but in this case, I feel I must. I just took confession 
from a man who claimed to have murdered members of your family."
Saunière
My family died in an accident. The police report was 
conclusive.
Yes, a car accident,
The man I spoke to said he forced their car off 
the road into a river.
Monsieur Saunière, I would never have phoned you directly except this man made a comment 
which makes me now fear for your safety.
The man also mentioned your 
granddaughter, Sophie.
s name had been the catalyst. The curator leapt into action. He ordered Silas 
to come see him immediately in the safest location Saunière knew—his Louvre office. Then he 
phoned Sophie to warn her she might be in danger. Drinks with Robert Langdon were instantly 
abandoned.
 Now, with Langdon separated from Sophie on the far side of the room, Teabing sensed he had 
successfully alienated the two companions from one another. Sophie Neveu remained defiant, but 
Langdon clearly saw the larger picture. He was trying to figure out the password. He understands 
the importance of finding the Grail and releasing her from bondage.
 "He won
 Sophie said coldly. 

 Teabing was glancing at Langdon as he held the gun on Sophie. He was fairly certain now he was 
going to have to use the weapon. Although the idea troubled him, he knew he would not hesitate if 
it came to that. I have given her every opportunity to do the right thing. The Grail is bigger than 
any one of us.
 At that moment, Langdon turned from the window. 
 he said suddenly, facing them 
with a faint glimmer of hope in his eyes. 
s tomb. Yes, I think I 
can find the password!"
 Teabing
Where, Robert? Tell me!
Robert, no! You're not going to help him, are you?
No,
Not until he lets you go.
s optimism darkened. "We are so close, Robert. Don


 Langdon said. 
ll take you to Newton
ll open the 
cryptex together."
 "I
 Sophie declared, her eyes narrowing with rage. 

 Langdon wheeled, looking fearful. 
re in danger. I

 

 Langdon's blue eyes showed panic now, and Teabing could not help but smile to see the two of 
them working against one another. Langdon's attempts to be gallant were more pathetic than 
anything. On the verge of unveiling one of history's greatest secrets, and he troubles himself with a 
woman who has proven herself unworthy of the quest.
 
 Langdon pleaded. 

 She shook her head. 

 
 Langdon gasped.
 
 Sophie's eyes looked as if they would well with tears, but they did not. She stared 
directly back at Teabing. 
s legacy in 
your hands."
 Very well. Teabing aimed the weapon.
 "No!" Langdon shouted, raising his arm and suspending the cryptex precariously over the hard 
stone floor. "Leigh, if you even think about it, I will drop this."
 Teabing laughed. "That bluff worked on Rémy. Not on me. I know you better than that."
 "Do you, Leigh?"
 Yes I do. Your poker face needs work, my friend. It took me several seconds, but I can see now that 
you are lying. You have no idea where on Newton
Truly, Robert? You 
know where on the tomb to look?
I do.
s eyes was fleeting but Leigh caught it. There was a lie there. A desperate, 
pathetic ploy to save Sophie. Teabing felt a profound disappointment in Robert Langdon.
 I am a lone knight, surrounded by unworthy souls. And I will have to decipher the keystone on my 
own.
 Langdon and Neveu were nothing but a threat to Teabing now... and to the Grail. As painful as the 
solution was going to be, he knew he could carry it out with a clean conscience. The only challenge 
would be to persuade Langdon to set down the keystone so Teabing could safely end this charade.
 "A show of faith," Teabing said, lowering the gun from Sophie. "Set down the keystone, and we

 Langdon knew his lie had failed.
 He could see the dark resolve in Teabing's face and knew the moment was upon them. When I set 
this down, he will kill us both. Even without looking at Sophie, he could hear her heart beseeching 
him in silent desperation. Robert, this man is not worthy of the Grail. Please do not place it in his 
hands. No matter what the cost.
 Langdon had already made his decision several minutes ago, while standing alone at the window 
overlooking College Garden.
 Protect Sophie.
 Protect the Grail.
 Langdon had almost shouted out in desperation. But I cannot see how!
 The stark moments of disillusionment had brought with them a clarity unlike any he had ever felt. 
The Truth is right before your eyes, Robert. He knew not from where the epiphany came. The Grail 
is not mocking you, she is calling out to a worthy soul.
 Now, bowing down like a subject several yards in front of Leigh Teabing, Langdon lowered the 
cryptex to within inches of the stone floor.
 
 Teabing whispered, aiming the gun at him. 

 Langdon's eyes moved heavenward, up into the gaping void of the Chapter House cupola. 
Crouching lower, Langdon lowered his gaze to Teabing's gun, aimed directly at him.
 
m sorry, Leigh."
In one fluid motion, Langdon leapt up, swinging his arm skyward, launching the cryptex straight 
up toward the dome above.
 Leigh Teabing did not feel his finger pull the trigger, but the Medusa discharged with a thundering 
crash. Langdon
s feet. Half of Teabing
s entire world became the 
airborne keystone. He watched it rise to the apex of its climb... hovering for a moment in the void... 
and then tumbling downward, end over end, back toward the stone floor.
 All of Teabing
s body reacted on instinct. He released the gun and heaved himself forward, 
dropping his crutches as he reached out with his soft, manicured hands. Stretching his arms and 
fingers, he snatched the keystone from midair.
 Falling forward with the keystone victoriously clutched in his hand, Teabing knew he was falling 
too fast. With nothing to break his fall, his outstretched arms hit first, and the cryptex collided hard 
with the floor.
 There was a sickening crunch of glass within.
 For a full second, Teabing did not breathe. Lying there outstretched on the cold floor, staring the 
length of his outstretched arms at the marble cylinder in his bare palms, he implored the glass vial 
inside to hold. Then the acrid tang of vinegar cut the air, and Teabing felt the cool liquid flowing 
out through the dials onto his palm.
 Wild panic gripped him. NO! The vinegar was streaming now, and Teabing pictured the papyrus 
dissolving within. Robert, you fool! The secret is lost!
 Teabing felt himself sobbing uncontrollably. The Grail is gone. Everything destroyed. Shuddering 
in disbelief over Langdon
The orb from which Eve partook,
incurring the Holy wrath of God. 
Original sin. The symbol of the fall of the sacred feminine.
s tomb could be none other than the Rosy apple that fell from heaven, struck Newton on 
the head, and inspired his life
s fruit! The Rosy flesh with a seeded womb!
 "Robert," Teabing stammered, overwhelmed. "You opened it. Where... is the map?"
 Without blinking, Langdon reached into the breast pocket of his tweed coat and carefully extracted 
a delicate rolled papyrus. Only a few yards from where Teabing lay, Langdon unrolled the scroll 
and looked at it. After a long moment, a knowing smile crossed Langdon
s heart craved that knowledge. His life
Tell 
me!
Please! Oh God, please! It's not too late!
No!
Agent Neveu, I am relieved you and Mr. Langdon are 
safe. You should have come in when I asked.
s heels, seizing the anguished prisoner and placing him in 
handcuffs.
 Sophie seemed stunned to see Fache. "How did you find us?"
 Fache pointed to Teabing. "He made the mistake of showing his ID when he entered the abbey. 
The guards heard a police broadcast about our search for him."
 "It
s pocket!" Teabing was screaming like a madman. "The map to the Holy Grail!"
 As they hoisted Teabing and carried him out, he threw back his head and howled. "Robert! Tell me 
where it

 As Teabing passed, Langdon looked him in the eye. 

 CHAPTER 102
 The mist had settled low on Kensington Gardens as Silas limped into a quiet hollow out of sight. 
Kneeling on the wet grass, he could feel a warm stream of blood flowing from the bullet wound 
below his ribs. Still, he stared straight ahead.
 The fog made it look like heaven here.
 Raising his bloody hands to pray, he watched the raindrops caress his fingers, turning them white 
again. As the droplets fell harder across his back and shoulders, he could feel his body disappearing 
bit by bit into the mist.
 I am a ghost.
 A breeze rustled past him, carrying the damp, earthy scent of new life. With every living cell in his 
broken body, Silas prayed. He prayed for forgiveness. He prayed for mercy. And, above all, he 
prayed for his mentor... Bishop Aringarosa... that the Lord would not take him before his time. He 
has so much work left to do.
 The fog was swirling around him now, and Silas felt so light that he was sure the wisps would 
carry him away. Closing his eyes, he said a final prayer.
 From somewhere in the mist, the voice of Manuel Aringarosa whispered to him.
 Our Lord is a good and merciful God.
 Silas's pain at last began to fade, and he knew the bishop was right.
 CHAPTER 103
 It was late afternoon when the London sun broke through and the city began to dry. Bezu Fache 
felt weary as he emerged from the interrogation room and hailed a cab. Sir Leigh Teabing had 
vociferously proclaimed his innocence, and yet from his incoherent rantings about the Holy Grail, 
secret documents, and mysterious brotherhoods, Fache suspected the wily historian was setting the 
stage for his lawyers to plead an insanity defense.
 Sure, Fache thought. Insane. Teabing had displayed ingenious precision in formulating a plan that 
protected his innocence at every turn. He had exploited both the Vatican and Opus Dei, two groups 
that turned out to be completely innocent. His dirty work had been carried out unknowingly by a 
fanatical monk and a desperate bishop. More clever still, Teabing had situated his electronic 
listening post in the one place a man with polio could not possibly reach. The actual surveillance 
had been carried out by his manservant, Rémy—the lone person privy to Teabing's true 
identity—now conveniently dead of an allergic reaction.
 Hardly the handiwork of someone lacking mental faculties, Fache thought.
 The information coming from Collet out of Château Villette suggested that Teabing's cunning ran 
so deep that Fache himself might even learn from it. To successfully hide bugs in some of Paris's 
most powerful offices, the British historian had turned to the Greeks. Trojan horses. Some of 
Teabing's intended targets received lavish gifts of artwork, others unwittingly bid at auctions in 
which Teabing had placed specific lots. In Saunière's case, the curator had received a dinner 
invitation to Château Villette to discuss the possibility of Teabing's funding a new Da Vinci Wing 
at the Louvre. Saunière's invitation had contained an innocuous postscript expressing fascination 
with a robotic knight that Saunière was rumored to have built. Bring him to dinner, Teabing had 
suggested. Saunière apparently had done just that and left the knight unattended long enough for 
Rémy Legaludec to make one inconspicuous addition.
 Now, sitting in the back of the cab, Fache closed his eyes. One more thing to attend to before I 
return to Paris.
 The St. Mary's Hospital recovery room was sunny.
 
ve impressed us all," the nurse said, smiling down at him. "Nothing short of miraculous."
 Bishop Aringarosa gave a weak smile. "I have always been blessed."
 The nurse finished puttering, leaving the bishop alone. The sunlight felt welcome and warm on his 
face. Last night had been the darkest night of his life.
 Despondently, he thought of Silas, whose body had been found in the park.
 Please forgive me, my son.
 Aringarosa had longed for Silas to be part of his glorious plan. Last night, however, Aringarosa had 
received a call from Bezu Fache, questioning the bishop about his apparent connection to a nun 
who had been murdered in Saint-Sulpice. Aringarosa realized the evening had taken a horrifying 
turn. News of the four additional murders transformed his horror to anguish. Silas, what have you 
done! Unable to reach the Teacher, the bishop knew he had been cut loose. Used. The only way to 
stop the horrific chain of events he had helped put in motion was to confess everything to Fache, 
and from that moment on, Aringarosa and Fache had been racing to catch up with Silas before the 
Teacher persuaded him to kill again.
 Feeling bone weary, Aringarosa closed his eyes and listened to the television coverage of the arrest 
of a prominent British knight, Sir Leigh Teabing. The Teacher laid bare for all to see. Teabing had 
caught wind of the Vatican
s separation payment to Opus Dei, the finances 
had worked nicely. The blind see what they want to see. Teabing
I am glad to see you're well, My Lord.
Captain 
Fache?
s 
plight last night had conjured images of a far gentler physique.
 The captain approached the bed and hoisted a familiar, heavy black briefcase onto a chair. "I 
believe this belongs to you."
 Aringarosa looked at the briefcase filled with bonds and immediately looked away, feeling only 
shame. "Yes... thank you." He paused while working his fingers across the seam of his bedsheet, 
then continued. "Captain, I have been giving this deep thought, and I need to ask a favor of you."
 "Of course."
 "The families of those in Paris who Silas..." He paused, swallowing the emotion. "I realize no sum 
could possibly serve as sufficient restitution, and yet, if you could be kind enough to divide the 
contents of this briefcase among them... the families of the deceased."
Fache
A virtuous gesture, My Lord. I will see to it your 
wishes are carried out.
Lieutenant Collet,
Last night, your captain publicly 
charged two innocent people with murder. Will Robert Langdon and Sophie Neveu be seeking 
accountability from your department? Will this cost Captain Fache his job?
s smile was tired but calm. "It is my experience that Captain Bezu Fache seldom 
makes mistakes. I have not yet spoken to him on this matter, but knowing how he operates, I 
suspect his public manhunt for Agent Neveu and Mr. Langdon was part of a ruse to lure out the 
real killer."
 The reporters exchanged surprised looks.
 Collet continued. "Whether or not Mr. Langdon and Agent Neveu were willing participants in the 
sting, I do not know. Captain Fache tends to keep his more creative methods to himself. All I can 
confirm at this point is that the captain has successfully arrested the man responsible, and that Mr. 
Langdon and Agent Neveu are both innocent and safe."
 Fache had a faint smile on his lips as he turned back to Aringarosa. "A good man, that Collet."
 Several moments passed. Finally, Fache ran his hand over his forehead, slicking back his hair as he 
gazed down at Aringarosa. "My Lord, before I return to Paris, there is one final matter I

 Aringarosa slumped. 

 
 Fache reached in his pocket and produced 
a purple amethyst ring with a familiar hand-tooled mitre-crozier appliqué.
 Aringarosa felt tears welling as he accepted the ring and slipped it back on his finger. 
ve been 
so kind." He held out his hand and clasped Fache
Thank you.
My Lord, where do you 
go from here?
I 
suspect my path is as uncertain as yours.
Yes.
I suspect I will be retiring early.
A little faith can do wonders, Captain. A little faith.
s geographic coordinates fall precisely on the north-south meridian that runs through 
Glastonbury. This longitudinal Rose Line is the traditional marker of King Arthur
s sacred geometry. It is from this hallowed Rose Line 
that Rosslyn—originally spelled Roslin—takes its name.
 Rosslyn
s final message could not have been more specific.
 The Holy Grail 
s "Grail map" would be a diagram—a drawing with an X
marks-the-spot—and yet the Priory
s renowned architectural features.
 Despite the clarity of Saunière
s presence. The whispers had turned to 
shouts in recent decades when ground-penetrating radar revealed the presence of an astonishing 
structure beneath the chapel—a massive subterranean chamber. Not only did this deep vault dwarf 
the chapel atop it, but it appeared to have no entrance or exit. Archaeologists petitioned to begin 
blasting through the bedrock to reach the mysterious chamber, but the Rosslyn Trust expressly 
forbade any excavation of the sacred site. Of course, this only fueled the fires of speculation. What 
was the Rosslyn Trust trying to hide?
 Rosslyn had now become a pilgrimage site for mystery seekers. Some claimed they were drawn 
here by the powerful magnetic field that emanated inexplicably from these coordinates, some 
claimed they came to search the hillside for a hidden entrance to the vault, but most admitted they 
had come simply to wander the grounds and absorb the lore of the Holy Grail.
 Although Langdon had never been to Rosslyn before now, he always chuckled when he heard the 
chapel described as the current home of the Holy Grail. Admittedly, Rosslyn once might have been 
home to the Grail, long ago... but certainly no longer. Far too much attention had been drawn to 
Rosslyn in past decades, and sooner or later someone would find a way to break into the vault.
 True Grail academics agreed that Rosslyn was a decoy—one of the devious dead ends the Priory 
crafted so convincingly. Tonight, however, with the Priory
Robert?
Are you corning?
s Temple.
 The Knights Templar had designed Rosslyn Chapel as an exact architectural blueprint of 
Solomon
s original hiding place.
 Rosslyn Chapel
Line of Rose
s arrestingly intricate stonework, seeing it in person 
was an overwhelming encounter.
 Symbology heaven, one of Langdon
s 
last tour. He was leading them in a single-file line along a well-known route on the floor—an 
invisible pathway linking six key architectural points within the sanctuary. Generations of visitors 
had walked these straight lines, connecting the points, and their countless footsteps had engraved 
an enormous symbol on the floor.
 The Star of David, Langdon thought. No coincidence there. Also known as Solomon
What is it?
I think... I've been here.
But you said you hadn't even heard of Rosslyn.
I hadn't...
My grandfather must have brought me 
here when I was very young. I don't know. It feels familiar.
Yes.
Those two 
pillars... I've seen them.
s sunlight 
streamed in through the west window. The pillars—positioned where the altar would normally 
stand—were an oddly matched pair. The pillar on the left was carved with simple, vertical lines, 
while the pillar on the right was embellished with an ornate, flowering spiral.
 Sophie was already moving toward them. Langdon hurried after her, and as they reached the 
pillars, Sophie was nodding with incredulity. "Yes, I

 
t doubt you
 Langdon said, 
t necessarily here."
 She turned. "What do you mean?"
 "These two pillars are the most duplicated architectural structures in history. Replicas exist all over 
the world."
 "Replicas of Rosslyn?" She looked skeptical.
 "No. Of the pillars. Do you remember earlier that I mentioned Rosslyn itself is a copy of Solomon
s 
Temple." Langdon pointed to the pillar on the left. "That
s Pillar. The 
other is called Jachin—or the Apprentice Pillar." He paused. "In fact, virtually every Masonic 
temple in the world has two pillars like these."
 Langdon had already explained to her about the Templars
s grandfather
s central ceiling, which was covered with carvings of stars and planets.
"I
 Sophie said, still eyeing the pillars. 
 She turned back into the chapel, as if looking for something else to jog her 
memory.
 The rest of the visitors were now leaving, and the young docent made his way across the chapel to 
them with a pleasant smile. He was a handsome young man in his late twenties, with a Scottish 
brogue and strawberry blond hair. 
m about to close up for the day. May I help you find 
anything?"
 How about the Holy Grail? Langdon wanted to say.
 "The code," Sophie blurted, in sudden revelation. "There

 The docent looked pleased by her enthusiasm. 
am."
 "It
 she said, turning to the right-hand wall. 

 He smiled. 

 The code, Langdon thought. He had forgotten that little bit of lore. Among Rosslyn's numerous 
mysteries was a vaulted archway from which hundreds of stone blocks protruded, jutting down to 
form a bizarre multifaceted surface. Each block was carved with a symbol, seemingly at random, 
creating a cipher of unfathomable proportion. Some people believed the code revealed the entrance 
to the vault beneath the chapel.
 Others believed it told the true Grail legend. Not that it mattered—cryptographers had been trying 
for centuries to decipher its meaning. To this day the Rosslyn Trust offered a generous reward to 
anyone who could unveil the secret meaning, but the code remained a mystery. 
d be happy to 
show..."
 The docent
s death. Her grandfather had brought her to 
Scotland on a short vacation. They had come to see Rosslyn Chapel before going back to Paris. It 
was late evening, and the chapel was closed. But they were still inside.
 "Can we go home, Grand-père?" Sophie begged, feeling tired.
 "Soon, dear, very soon." His voice was melancholy. "I have one last thing I need to do here. How 
about if you wait in the car?"
 "You

 He nodded. 
ll be fast. I promise."
 "Can I do the archway code again? That was fun."
 "I don
t be frightened in here alone?"
 "Of course not!" she said with a huff. "It

 He smiled. 
 He led her over to the elaborate archway he had shown her earlier.
 Sophie immediately plopped down on the stone floor, lying on her back and staring up at the 
collage of puzzle pieces overhead. 
m going to break this code before you get back!"
 "It
 He bent over, kissed her forehead, and walked to the nearby side door. 
ll be 
right outside. I
 He exited into the soft evening 
light.
 Sophie lay there on the floor, gazing up at the code. Her eyes felt sleepy. After a few minutes, the 
symbols got fuzzy. And then they disappeared.
 When Sophie awoke, the floor felt cold.
 

 There was no answer. Standing up, she brushed herself off. The side door was still open. The 
evening was getting darker. She walked outside and could see her grandfather standing on the 
porch of a nearby stone house directly behind the church. Her grandfather was talking quietly to a 
person barely visible inside the screened door.
 
 she called.
 Her grandfather turned and waved, motioning for her to wait just a moment. Then, slowly, he said 
some final words to the person inside and blew a kiss toward the screened door. He came to her 
with tearful eyes.


 He picked her up and held her close. 
s hard."
 Sophie thought of the accident, of saying good-bye to her mother and father, her grandmother and 
baby brother. "Were you saying goodbye to another person?"
 "To a dear friend whom I love very much," he replied, his voice heavy with emotion. "And I fear I 
will not see her again for a very long time."
 Standing with the docent, Langdon had been scanning the chapel walls and feeling a rising 
wariness that a dead end might be looming. Sophie had wandered off to look at the code and left 
Langdon holding the rosewood box, which contained a Grail map that now appeared to be no help 
at all. Although Saunière
blade and chalice,
neath ancient Roslin waits.
 The blade and chalice guarding o
I hate to pry,
s hands. "But this box... might 
I ask where you got it?"
 Langdon gave a weary laugh. "That

 The young man hesitated, his eyes on the box again. 
s the strangest thing—my grandmother has 
a box exactly like that—a jewelry box. Identical polished rosewood, same inlaid rose, even the 
hinges look the same."
 Langdon knew the young man must be mistaken. If ever a box had been one of a kind, it was this 
one—the box custom-made for the Priory keystone. "The two boxes may be similar but—"
 The side door closed loudly, drawing both of their gazes. Sophie had exited without a word and 
was now wandering down the bluff toward a fieldstone house nearby. Langdon stared after her. 
Where is she going? She had been acting strangely ever since they entered the building. He turned 
to the docent. "Do you know what that house is?"
He nodded, also looking puzzled that Sophie was going down there. "That
 He paused. 

 

 The young man nodded. 
 
He shrugged. 
ve lived here my whole life. My grandmother raised me in that house."
 Concerned for Sophie, Langdon moved across the chapel toward the door to call out to her. He was 
only halfway there when he stopped short. Something the young man said just registered.
 My grandmother raised me.
 Langdon looked out at Sophie on the bluff, then down at the rosewood box in his hand. Impossible. 
Slowly, Langdon turned back to the young man. "You said your grandmother has a box like this 
one?"
 "Almost identical."
 "Where did she get it?"
 "My grandfather made it for her. He died when I was a baby, but my grandmother still talks about 
him. She says he was a genius with his hands. He made all kinds of things."
 Langdon glimpsed an unimaginable web of connections emerging. "You said your grandmother 
raised you. Do you mind my asking what happened to your parents?"
 The young man looked surprised. "They died when I was young." He paused. "The same day as my 
grandfather."
 Langdon
In a car accident?
Yes. In a car accident. My 
entire family died that day. I lost my grandfather, my parents, and...
And your sister,
s feet, and the woman turned slowly, her sad eyes finding 
Sophie
s fervent gaze never wavered 
as she set down the photo and approached the screened door. An eternity seemed to pass as the two 
women stared at one another through the thin mesh. Then, like the slowly gathering swell of an 
ocean wave, the woman
s thunderstruck 
face. "Oh, dear child... look at you!"
 Although Sophie did not recognize her, she knew who this woman was. She tried to speak but 
found she could not even breathe.
 "Sophie," the woman sobbed, kissing her forehead.
 Sophie
But... Grand-père said you were...
I know.
s shoulders and gazed at her with familiar 
eyes. "Your grandfather and I were forced to say so many things. We did what we thought was 
right. I

 Sophie heard her final word, and immediately thought of her grandfather, who had called her 
princess for so many years. The sound of his voice seemed to echo now in the ancient stones of 
Rosslyn, settling through the earth and reverberating in the unknown hollows below.
 The woman threw her arms around Sophie, the tears flowing faster. 
s 
so much to explain. So very much to explain." She kissed Sophie
No more secrets, princess. It's time you learn the truth about our family.
Sophie?
s face, but as they 
embraced, she could feel the power of the blood coursing through his veins... the blood she now 
understood they shared.
 When Langdon walked across the lawn to join them, Sophie could not imagine that only yesterday 
she had felt so alone in the world. And now, somehow, in this foreign place, in the company of 
three people she barely knew, she felt at last that she was home.
 CHAPTER 105
 Night had fallen over Rosslyn.
 Robert Langdon stood alone on the porch of the fieldstone house enjoying the sounds of laughter 
and reunion drifting through the screened door behind him. The mug of potent Brazilian coffee in 
his hand had granted him a hazy reprieve from his mounting exhaustion, and yet he sensed the 
reprieve would be fleeting. The fatigue in his body went to the core.
 "You slipped out quietly," a voice behind him said.
 He turned. Sophie
I thought I'd give your family some time together.
Mr. Langdon, when I first heard of Jacques's murder, I 
was terrified for Sophie's safety. Seeing her standing in my doorway tonight was the greatest relief 
of my life. I cannot thank you enough.
s late parents. Incredibly, both had been from Merovingian 
families—direct descendants of Mary Magdalene and Jesus Christ. Sophie
s parents were killed in a car accident whose cause could not be determined, 
the Priory feared the identity of the royal line had been discovered.
 "Your grandfather and I," Marie had explained in a voice choked with pain, "had to make a grave 
decision the instant we received the phone call. Your parents
 
She dabbed at the tears in her eyes. 
 Marie looked at Sophie. 
 Her voice fell to a whisper. 

 Langdon had sensed the story went far deeper, but he also sensed it was not for him to hear. So he 
had stepped outside. Now, gazing up at the spires of Rosslyn, Langdon could not escape the hollow 
gnaw of Rosslyn's unsolved mystery. Is the Grail really here at Rosslyn? And if so, where are the 
blade and chalice that Saunière mentioned in his poem?
 
ll take that," Marie said, motioning to Langdon
Oh, thank you.
I was referring to your other hand, Mr. Langdon.
s papyrus. He had taken it from the 
cryptex once again in hopes of seeing something he had missed earlier. "Of course, I

 Marie looked amused as she took the paper. 
s requests for the 
care of this box."
Including shooting me, Langdon recalled, deciding not to mention that he had probably broken the 
poor man
And the Priory? What happens now?
The wheels are already in motion, Mr. Langdon. The brotherhood has endured for centuries, and it 
will endure this. There are always those waiting to move up and rebuild.
s grandmother was closely tied to the operations of 
the Priory. After all, the Priory had always had women members. Four Grand Masters had been 
women. The sénéchaux were traditionally men—the guardians—and yet women held far more 
honored status within the Priory and could ascend to the highest post from virtually any rank.
 Langdon thought of Leigh Teabing and Westminster Abbey. It seemed a lifetime ago. "Was the 
Church pressuring your husband not to release the Sangreal documents at the End of Days?"
 "Heavens no. The End of Days is a legend of paranoid minds. There is nothing in the Priory 
doctrine that identifies a date at which the Grail should be unveiled. In fact the Priory has always 
maintained that the Grail should never be unveiled."
 "Never?" Langdon was stunned.
 "It is the mystery and wonderment that serve our souls, not the Grail itself. The beauty of the Grail 
lies in her ethereal nature." Marie Chauvel gazed up at Rosslyn now. "For some, the Grail is a 
chalice that will bring them everlasting life. For others, it is the quest for lost documents and secret 
history. And for most, I suspect the Holy Grail is simply a grand idea... a glorious unattainable 
treasure that somehow, even in today

 
 
Langdon said.
 
 She paused. 

 

 She smiled. 

 Langdon fell silent, feeling the weight of her message upon him. Across the open spaces, a new 
moon was rising above the tree line.
Turning his eyes toward Rosslyn, Langdon felt a boyish craving to know her secrets. Don't ask, he 
told himself. This is not the moment. He glanced at the papyrus in Marie's hand, and then back at 
Rosslyn.
 
 Marie said, looking amused. 

 Langdon felt himself flush.
 

 

 She sighed in mock exasperation. 
 She 
laughed, obviously enjoying herself. 
s here?"
 Langdon motioned to the papyrus in her hand. "Your husband
t see any 
symbols of the blade and chalice up there."
 "The blade and chalice?" Marie asked. "What exactly do they look like?"
 Langdon sensed she was toying with him, but he played along, quickly describing the symbols.
 A look of vague recollection crossed her face. "Ah, yes, of course. The blade represents all that is 
masculine. I believe it is drawn like this, no?" Using her index finger, she traced a shape on her 
palm.
 "Yes," Langdon said. Marie had drawn the less common "closed" form of the blade, although 
Langdon had seen the symbol portrayed both ways.
 "And the inverse," she said, drawing again on her palm, "is the chalice, which represents the 
feminine."
 "Correct," Langdon said.
 "And you are saying that in all the hundreds of symbols we have here in Rosslyn Chapel, these two 
shapes appear nowhere?"
 "I didn

 

 Before Langdon could answer, Marie Chauvel had stepped off the porch and was heading toward 
the chapel. Langdon hurried after her. Entering the ancient building, Marie turned on the lights and 
pointed to the center of the sanctuary floor. 

 Langdon stared at the scuffed stone floor. It was blank. 
s nothing here...."
 Marie sighed and began to walk along the famous path worn into the chapel floor, the same path 
Langdon had seen the visitors walking earlier this evening. As his eyes adjusted to see the giant 
symbol, he still felt lost. "But that

 Langdon stopped short, mute with amazement as it dawned on him.
 The blade and chalice.
 Fused as one.
 The Star of David... the perfect union of male and female... Solomon's Seal... marking the Holy of 
Holies, where the male and female deities—Yahweh and Shekinah—were thought to dwell.
 Langdon needed a minute to find his words. 

 Marie smiled. 

 The implications chilled him. 

 She laughed. 
s most ancient charges was one day to return the 
Grail to her homeland of France where she could rest for eternity. For centuries, she was dragged 
across the countryside to keep her safe. Most undignified. Jacques

 

Now her face grew serious. 
ve done for me tonight, and as 
curator of the Rosslyn Trust, I can tell you for certain that the Grail is no longer here."
 Langdon decided to press. "But the keystone is supposed to point to the place where the Holy Grail 
is hidden now. Why does it point to Rosslyn?"
 "Maybe you

 
 he asked. 

 
 She unrolled the papyrus and read the poem aloud in 
a deliberate tone.
 The Holy Grail 'neath ancient Roslin waits.
 The blade and chalice guarding o'er Her gates.
 Adorned in masters' loving art, She lies.
 She rests at last beneath the starry skies.
 When she finished, she was still for several seconds, until a knowing smile crossed her lips. 

 Langdon watched her expectantly. 

 

 Langdon strained to understand. Everything about Jacques Saunière seemed to have double 
meanings, and yet Langdon could see no further.
 Marie gave a tired yawn. 
s intuition is strong." Langdon started to speak but Marie 
continued. "I am sorry that after all your hard work, you will be leaving Rosslyn without any real 
answers. And yet, something tells me you will eventually find what you seek. One day it will dawn 
on you." She smiled. "And when it does, I trust that you, of all people, can keep a secret."
 There was a sound of someone arriving in the doorway. "Both of you disappeared," Sophie said, 
entering.
"I was just leaving," her grandmother replied, walking over to Sophie at the door. "Good night, 
princess." She kissed Sophie
Don't keep Mr. Langdon out too late.
Not exactly the ending I expected.
Are you okay? It's a lot to take in.
I have a family. That's where I'm going to start. Who we are and where we 
came from will take some time.
Beyond tonight, will you stay with us?
At least for a few days?
You need some time here with your family, Sophie. I'm 
going back to Paris in the morning.
Sophie?
Hi.
I may 
be gone before you wake up.
I'm sorry, I'm not very 
good at—
When can I see you again?
When?
Well, actually, next month I'm lecturing at a 
conference in Florence. I'll be there a week without much to do.
Is that an invitation?
We'd be living in luxury. They're giving me a room at the Brunelleschi.
You presume a lot, Mr. Langdon.
What I meant—
I would love nothing more than to meet you in Florence, Robert. But on one condition.
No museums, no churches, no tombs, no art, no relics.
In Florence? For a week? There's nothing else to do.
Right,
It's a date.
s body felt warm and deeply contented. He had slept the better part of the last two days. 
Sitting up slowly in bed, he now realized what had awoken him... the strangest thought. For days 
he had been trying to sort through a barrage of information, but now Langdon found himself fixed 
on something he
s original prime meridian.
 The first zero longitude of the world.
 Paris
neath ancient Roslin waits.
 The revelations were coming now in waves. Saunière
 art.
 Is that why Saunière needed to talk with me? Had I unknowingly guessed the truth?
He broke into a jog, feeling the Rose Line beneath his feet, guiding him, pulling him toward his 
destination. As he entered the long tunnel of Passage Richelieu, the hairs on his neck began to 
bristle with anticipation. He knew that at the end of this tunnel stood the most mysterious of 
Parisian monuments—conceived and commissioned in the 1980s by the Sphinx himself, François 
Mitterrand, a man rumored to move in secret circles, a man whose final legacy to Paris was a place 
Langdon had visited only days before.
 Another lifetime.
 With a final surge of energy, Langdon burst from the passageway into the familiar courtyard and 
came to a stop. Breathless, he raised his eyes, slowly, disbelieving, to the glistening structure in 
front of him.
 The Louvre Pyramid.
 Gleaming in the darkness.
 He admired it only a moment. He was more interested in what lay to his right. Turning, he felt his 
feet again tracing the invisible path of the ancient Rose Line, carrying him across the courtyard to 
the Carrousel du Louvre—the enormous circle of grass surrounded by a perimeter of neatly 
trimmed hedges—once the site of Paris
s most unusual monuments. 
There in the center, plunging into the earth like a crystal chasm, gaped the giant inverted pyramid 
of glass that he had seen a few nights ago when he entered the Louvre
s sprawling underground 
complex, aglow with amber light. His eye was trained not just on the massive inverted pyramid, 
but on what lay directly beneath it. There, on the floor of the chamber below, stood the tiniest of 
structures... a structure Langdon had mentioned in his manuscript.
 Langdon felt himself awaken fully now to the thrill of unthinkable possibility. Raising his eyes 
again to the Louvre, he sensed the huge wings of the museum enveloping him... hallways that 
burgeoned with the world
 loving art, She lies.
Alive with wonder, he stared once again downward through the glass at the tiny structure below.
 I must go down there!
 Stepping out of the circle, he hurried across the courtyard back toward the towering pyramid 
entrance of the Louvre. The day
s courtyard, back toward La Pyramide Inversée.
 At the end of the tunnel, he emerged into a large chamber. Directly before him, hanging down from 
above, gleamed the inverted pyramid—a breathtaking V-shaped contour of glass.
 The Chalice.
 Langdon
s manuscript, while discussing the Louvre
The miniature structure itself protrudes up through the floor 
as though it were the tip of an iceberg—the apex, of an enormous, pyramidical vault, submerged 
below like a hidden chamber.
er Her gates.
 Langdon heard Marie Chauvel
s verse. Raising his eyes to heaven, he gazed upward through the glass to a glorious, 
star-filled night.
She rests at last beneath the starry skies.
 Like the murmurs of spirits in the darkness, forgotten words echoed. The quest for the Holy Grail 
is the quest to kneel before the bones of Mary Magdalene. A journey to pray at the feet of the 
outcast one.
 With a sudden upwelling of reverence, Robert Langdon fell to his knees.
 For a moment, he thought he heard a woman
