Mark	Watney	is	the	only	human	being	to
 have	died	on	Mars.
in	command
bloodletting.
death
Look	at	the	silly	hippies!	Look	at	their	pathetic
 attempts	to	simulate	a	complex	global	ecosystem	in	their	backyard.
night	soil.
infect
Why	send	a	lot	of	water	up	there?	Just	send	enough	for	an
 emergency.
Mark
 Watney	doesn’t	die
sunlight,
Create	Water.
tank.
Mark	Watney	Memorial	Crater
fire.
death	by	fire.
reaction	bowl
Swimmingly
Yay!	More	oxygen!	Now	I	can	make	water	faster!
gain
Hey,	let’s	allow	a	fatal	lack	of
 oxygen	that	will	make	everyone	drop	dead!
Holy	shit!
I	better	pull	O2	out	right	away!
My	ears	hurt	like	hell!
I’m	dizzy,
The	Cistern
hydrogen	cleanings
You	okay,	Venk?
Guess	so,
You	could	have	given	a	speech.
I	didn’t	want	to.	You	know	that.
Yeah,	I	know.	I	didn’t	want	to,	either.	But	I’m	the	administrator	of	NASA.
 It’s	kind	of	expected.	You	sure	you’re	okay?
Yeah,	I’ll	be	fine.
Good,
Let’s	get	back	to	work,	then.
Sure.
Let’s	start	with	you	authorizing	my	satellite	time.
This	again.
Yes,
This	again.	What	is	the	problem?
Okay,	run	me	through	it.	What,	exactly,	are	you	after?
Ares	3	was	a	failure,	but	we	can	salvage	something
 from	it.	We’re	funded	for	five	Ares	missions.	I	think	we	can	get	Congress	to
 fund	a	sixth.
I	don’t	know,	Venk…
It’s	simple,	Teddy.
They	evac’d	after	six	sols.	There’s
 almost	an	entire	mission’s	worth	of	supplies	up	there.	It	would	only	cost	a
 fraction	of	a	normal	mission.	It	normally	takes	fourteen	presupply	probes	to	prep
 a	site.	We	might	be	able	to	send	what’s	missing	in	three.	Maybe	two.
Venk,	the	site	got	hit	by	a	175	kph	sandstorm.	It’ll	be	in	really	bad	shape.
That’s	why	I	want	imagery,
I	just	need	a	couple	of	shots	of
 the	site.	We	could	learn	a	lot.
Like	what?	You	think	we’d	send	people	to	Mars	without	being	sure
 everything	was	in	perfect	working	order?
Everything	doesn’t	have	to	be	perfect,
Whatever’s
 broken,	we’d	send	replacements	for.
How	will	we	know	from	imagery	what’s	broken?
It’s	just	a	first	step.	They	evac’d	because	the	wind	was	a	threat	to	the	MAV,
 but	the	Hab	can	withstand	a	lot	more	punishment.	It	might	still	be	in	one	piece.
 “And	it’ll	be	really	obvious.	If	it	popped,	it’d	completely	blow	out	and
 collapse.	If	it’s	still	standing,	then	everything	inside	will	be	fine.	And	the	rovers
 are	solid.	They	can	take	any	sandstorm	Mars	has	to	offer.	Just	let	me	take	a	look,
 Teddy,	that’s	all	I	want.
You’re	not	the	only	guy	who	wants	satellite	time,	you	know.	We	have	Ares	4
 supply	missions	coming	up.	We	need	to	concentrate	on	Schiaparelli	crater.
I	don’t	get	it,	Teddy.	What’s	the	problem	here?
I’m	talking
 about	securing	us	another	mission.	We	have	twelve	satellites	in	orbit	around
 Mars;	I’m	sure	you	can	spare	one	or	two	for	a	couple	of	hours.	I	can	give	you	the
 windows	for	each	one	when	they’ll	be	at	the	right	angle	for	Ares	3	shots—
It’s	not	about	satellite	time,	Venk,
Then…but…what…
We’re	a	public	domain	organization.	There’s	no
 such	thing	as	secret	or	secure	information	here.
So?
Any	imagery	we	take	goes	directly	to	the	public.
Again,	so?
Mark	Watney’s	body	will	be	within	twenty	meters	of	the	Hab.	Maybe
 partially	buried	in	sand,	but	still	very	visible,	and	with	a	comm	antenna	sticking
 out	of	his	chest.	Any	images	we	take	will	show	that.
This	is	why	you	denied	my	imagery	requests	for
 two	months?
Venk,	come	on—
Really,	Teddy?
You’re	afraid	of	a	PR	problem?
The	media’s	obsession	with	Watney’s	death	is	finally	starting	to	taper	off,
It’s	been	bad	press	after	bad	press	for	two	months.	Today’s
 memorial	gives	people	closure,	and	the	media	can	move	on	to	some	other	story.
 The	last	thing	we	want	is	to	dredge	everything	back	up.
So	what	do	we	do,	then?	He’s	not	going	to	decompose.	He’ll	be	there
 forever.
Not	forever,
Within	a	year,	he’ll	be	covered	in	sand	from
 normal	weather	activity.
A	year?
That’s	ludicrous.	We	can’t	wait	a
 year	for	this.
Why	not?	Ares	4	won’t	even	launch	for	another	five	years.	Plenty	of	time.
Okay,	consider	this:	Sympathy	for	Watney’s	family	is	really	high.	Ares	6
 could	bring	the	body	back.	We	don’t	say	that’s	the	purpose	of	the	mission,	but
 we	make	it	clear	that	would	be	part	of	it.	If	we	framed	it	that	way,	we’d	get	more
 support	in	Congress.	But	not	if	we	wait	a	year.	In	a	year,	people	won’t	care
 anymore.
Hmm…
Master’s	degree	in	mechanical	engineering,
And	I’m
 working	in	an	all-night	photo	booth.
31.2°N,	28.5°W…Acidalia	Planitia…Ares	3?
Um…,
Uhhh…
Hey,	this	is	Mindy	Park	at	SatCon.	I	need	the	mission	logs	for	Ares	3,	where
 can	I	get	’em?…Uh	huh…uh-huh…Okay…Thanks.
Hello,	Security?	This	is	Mindy	Park	in
 SatCon.	I	need	the	emergency	contact	number	for	Dr.	Venkat	Kapoor.…	Yes	it’s
 an	emergency.
You	Mindy	Park?
Yes,
Sorry	to	drag	you	in.
I’m	assuming	you	had	a	good	reason.	So?
Um,
Um,	it’s.	Well.	The	imagery	you	ordered.
 Um.	Come	here	and	look.
Is	this	about
 Watney’s	body?	Is	that	why	you’re	shook	up?
Um,	no,
Um.	Well…uh.
Looks	like	the	Hab’s	in	one	piece.	That’s	good
 news.	Solar	array	looks	good.	The	rovers	are	okay,	too.	Main	dish	isn’t	around.
 No	surprise	there.	What’s	the	big	emergency?
Um,
That.
Hmm.	Looks	like	Hab	canvas.	Maybe	the	Hab
 didn’t	do	well	after	all?	I	guess	pieces	got	torn	off	and—
Um,
They	look	like	rover	pop-tents.
Hmm.	Probably	right.
How’d	they	get	set	up?
Commander	Lewis	probably	ordered	them	deployed
 during	the	evac.	Not	a	bad	idea.	Have	the	emergency	shelters	ready	in	case	the
 MAV	didn’t	work	and	the	Hab	breached.
Yeah,	um,
this	is	the
 entire	mission	log	for	Sols	1	through	6.	From	MDV	touchdown	to	MAV
 emergency	liftoff.
Okay,	and?
I	read	through	it.	Several	times.	They	never	threw	out	the	pop-tents.
Well,	uh…,
They	obviously	did,	but	it
 didn’t	make	it	into	the	log.
They	activated	two	emergency	pop-tents	and	never	told	anyone?
Hmm.	That	doesn’t	make	a	lot	of	sense,	no.	Maybe	the	storm	messed	with
 the	rovers	and	the	tents	autodeployed.
So	after	autodeploying,	they	detached	themselves	from	the	rovers	and	lined
 up	next	to	each	other	twenty	meters	away?
Well	obviously	they	activated	somehow.
Why	are	the	solar	cells	clean?
There	was	a
 huge	sandstorm.	Why	isn’t	there	sand	all	over	them?
A	good	wind	could	have	done	it?
Did	I	mention	I	never	found	Watney’s	body?
Oh…,
Oh	God…
FUCK!
You	have	got	to	be	fucking	kidding	me!
Not	helping,	Annie.
How	sure	are	we	of	this?
Nearly	a	hundred	percent,
Fuck!
It	is	what	it	is.	We	have	to	deal	with	it.
Do	you	have	any	idea	the	magnitude	of	shit	storm	this	is	gonna	be?
You	don’t	have	to	face	those	damn	reporters	every	day.	I	do!
One	thing	at	a	time,
Venk,	what	makes	you	sure	he’s	alive?
For	starters,	no	body,
Also,	the	pop-tents	are	set	up.
 And	the	solar	cells	are	clean.	You	can	thank	Mindy	Park	in	SatCon	for	noticing
 all	that,	by	the	way.
 “But,
his	body	could	have	been	buried	in	the	Sol	6	storm.
The	pop-tents	might	have	autodeployed	and	wind	could	have	blown	them
 around.	A	30	kph	windstorm	some	time	later	would	have	been	strong	enough	to
 clean	the	solar	cells	but	not	strong	enough	to	carry	sand.	It’s	not	likely,	but	it’s
 possible.
 “So	I	spent	the	last	few	hours	checking	everything	I	could.	Commander	Lewis
 had	two	outings	in	Rover	2.	The	second	was	on	Sol	5.	According	to	the	logs,
 after	returning,	she	plugged	it	into	the	Hab	for	recharging.	It	wasn’t	used	again,
 and	thirteen	hours	later	they	evac’d.
That’s	one	of	the	images	from	last	night.	As	you	can	see,	Rover	2	is	facing
 away	from	the	Hab.	The	charging	port	is	in	the	nose,	and	the	cable	isn’t	long
 enough	to	reach.
She	must	have	parked	it	facing	the	Hab	or	she	wouldn’t	have	been	able	to	plug
 it	in,
It’s	been	moved	since	Sol	5.
Yeah,
But	here’s	the	real
 evidence.	In	the	lower	right	of	the	image	you	can	see	the	MDV.	It’s	been	taken
 apart.	I’m	pretty	sure	they	wouldn’t	have	done	that	without	telling	us.
 “And	the	clincher	is	on	the	right	of	the	image,
The	landing
 struts	of	the	MAV.	Looks	like	the	fuel	plant	has	been	completely	removed,	with
 considerable	damage	to	the	struts	in	the	process.	There’s	just	no	way	that	could
 have	happened	before	liftoff.	It	would	have	endangered	the	MAV	way	too	much
 for	Lewis	to	allow	it.
Hey,
Why	not	talk	to	Lewis?	Let’s	go	to	CAPCOM	and	ask
 her	directly.
Because,
if	Watney	really	is	alive,	we	don’t	want	the	Ares	3
 crew	to	know.
What!?
How	can	you	not	tell	them?
They	have	another	ten	months	on	their	trip	home,
Space
 travel	is	dangerous.	They	need	to	be	alert	and	undistracted.	They’re	sad	that	they
 lost	a	crewmate,	but	they’d	be	devastated	if	they	found	out	they’d	abandoned
 him	alive.
You’re	on	board	with	this?
It’s	a	no-brainer,
Let	’em	deal	with	that	emotional	trauma
when	they’re	not	flying	a	spaceship	around.
This’ll	be	the	most	talked-about	event	since	Apollo	11,
How
 will	you	keep	it	from	them?
Easy.	We	control	all	communication	with	them.
Fuck,
When	do	you	want	to	go	public?
What’s	your	take?
Mmm,
We	can	hold	the	pics	for	twenty-four	hours	before
 we’re	required	to	release	them.	We’ll	need	to	send	out	a	statement	along	with
 them.	We	don’t	want	people	working	it	out	on	their	own.	We’d	look	like
 assholes.
Okay,
put	together	a	statement.
That’ll	be	fun,
Where	do	we	go	from	here?
Step	one	is	communication,
From	the	pics,	it’s	clear	the
 comm	array	is	ruined.	We	need	another	way	to	talk.	Once	we	can	talk,	we	can
 assess	and	make	plans.
All	right,
Get	on	it.	Take	anyone	you	want	from	any
 department.	Use	as	much	overtime	as	you	want.	Find	a	way	to	talk	to	him.
 That’s	your	only	job	right	now.
Got	it.
Annie,	make	sure	nobody	gets	wind	of	this	till	we	announce.
Right,
Who	else	knows?
Just	the	three	of	us	and	Mindy	Park	in	SatCon,
I’ll	have	a	word	with	her,
I’m	going	to	Chicago.	I’ll	be	back
 tomorrow.
Why?
That’s	where	Watney’s	parents	live,
I	owe	them	a	personal
 explanation	before	it	breaks	on	the	news.
They’ll	be	happy	to	hear	their	son’s	alive,
Yes,	he’s	alive,
But	if	my	math	is	right,	he’s	doomed	to	starve
 to	death	before	we	can	possibly	help	him.	I’m	not	looking	forward	to	the
 conversation.
Fuck,
NOTHING?	Nothing	at	all?
Are	you	kidding	me?	You	had
 twenty	experts	working	for	twelve	hours	on	this.	We	have	a	multibillion-dollar
 communications	network.	You	can’t	figure	out	any	way	to	talk	to	him?
He’s	got	no	radio,
Actually,
he’s	got	a	radio,	but	he	doesn’t	have	a	dish.
Thing	is,
without	the	dish,	a	signal	would	have	to	be
 really	strong—
Like,	melting-the-pigeons	strong,
—for	him	to	get	it,
We	considered	Martian	satellites,
They’re	way	closer.	But	the
 math	doesn’t	work	out.	Even	SuperSurveyor	3,	which	has	the	strongest
 transmitter,	would	need	to	be	fourteen	times	more	powerful—
Seventeen	times,
Fourteen	times,
No,	it’s	seventeen.	You	forgot	the	amperage	minimum	for	the	heaters	to	keep
 the—
Guys,
I	get	the	idea.
Sorry.
Sorry.
Sorry	if	I’m	grumpy,
I	got	like	two	hours	sleep	last	night.
No	problem,
Totally	understandable,
Okay,
Explain	to	me	how	a	single	windstorm	removed	our
 ability	to	talk	to	Ares	3.
Failure	of	imagination,
Totally	didn’t	see	it	coming,
How	many	backup	communications	systems	does	an	Ares	mission	have?
Four,
Three,
No,	it’s	four,
He	said	backup	systems,
That	means	not	including	the
 primary	system.
Oh	right.	Three.
So	four	systems	total,	then,
Explain	how	we	lost	all	four.
Well,
The	primary	ran	through	the	big	satellite	dish.	It	blew
 away	in	the	storm.	The	rest	of	the	backups	were	in	the	MAV.
Yup,
The	MAV	is,	like,	a	communicating	machine.	It	can
 talk	to	Earth,	Hermes,	even	satellites	around	Mars	if	it	has	to.	And	it	has	three
 independent	systems	to	make	sure	nothing	short	of	a	meteor	strike	can	stop
 communication.
Problem	is,
Commander	Lewis	and	the	rest	of	them	took	the
 MAV	when	they	left.
So	four	independent	communications	systems	became	one.	And	that	one
 broke,
How	could	we	overlook	this?
Never	occurred	to	us.	We	never	thought	someone	would	be
 on	Mars	without	an	MAV.
I	mean,	come	on!
What	are	the	odds?
One	in	three,	based	on	empirical	data.	That’s	pretty	bad
 if	you	think	about	it.
Thank	you	all	for	coming	on	such	short	notice,
We	have	an	important	announcement	to	make.	If	you	could	all	take
 your	seats.
What	this	about,	Annie?
Something	happen
 with	Hermes?
Please	take	your	seats,
This	is	a	short	but	very	important	announcement,
I	won’t	be
 taking	any	questions	at	this	time,	but	we	will	have	a	full	press	conference	with
 Q&A	in	about	an	hour.	We	have	recently	reviewed	satellite	imagery	from	Mars
 and	have	confirmed	that	astronaut	Mark	Watney	is,	currently,	still	alive.
I’m	getting	sick	of	daily	press	conferences,
I’m	getting	sick	of	hourly	press	conferences,
Sorry	I’m	late,
In	the	nine	days	since	announcing	Mark	Watney’s	survival,	we’ve	received	a
 massive	show	of	support	from	all	sectors.	We’re	using	this	shamelessly	every
 way	we	can.
Yesterday,	at	our	request,	the	entire	SETI	network	focused	on	Mars.	Just	in
 case	Watney	was	sending	a	weak	radio	signal.	Turns	out	he	wasn’t,	but	it	shows
 the	level	of	commitment	everyone	has	toward	helping	us.
 “The	public	is	engaged,	and	we	will	do	our	best	to	keep	everyone	informed.
 I’ve	recently	learned	CNN	will	be	dedicating	a	half-hour	segment	every
weekday	to	reporting	on	just	this	issue.	We	will	assign	several	members	of	our
 media	relations	team	to	that	program,	so	the	public	can	get	the	latest	information
 as	fast	as	possible.
 “We	have	adjusted	the	orbits	of	three	satellites	to	get	more	view	time	on	the
 Ares	3	site	and	hope	to	catch	an	image	of	Mark	outside	soon.	If	we	can	see	him
 outside,	we	will	be	able	to	draw	conclusions	on	his	physical	health	based	on
 stance	and	activities.
 “The	questions	are	many:	How	long	can	he	last?	How	much	food	does	he
 have?	Can	Ares	4	rescue	him?	How	will	we	talk	to	him?	The	answers	to	these
 questions	are	not	what	we	want	to	hear.
 “I	can’t	promise	we’ll	succeed	in	rescuing	him,	but	I	can	promise	this:	The
 entire	focus	of	NASA	will	be	to	bring	Mark	Watney	home.	This	will	be	our
 overriding	and	singular	obsession	until	he	is	either	back	on	Earth	or	confirmed
 dead	on	Mars.
NICE	SPEECH,
Meant	every	word	of	it,
Oh,	I	know.
What	can	I	do	for	you,	Venk?
I’ve	got	an	idea.	Well,	JPL	has	an	idea.	I’m	the	messenger.
I	like	ideas,
We	can	rescue	him	with	Ares	4.	It’s	very	risky.	We	ran	the	idea	by	the	Ares
 4	crew.	Not	only	are	they	willing	to	do	it,	but	now	they’re	really	pushing	hard
 for	it.
Naturally,
Astronauts	are	inherently	insane.	And	really	noble.
 What’s	the	idea?
Well,
it’s	in	the	rough	stages,	but	JPL	thinks	the	MDV	can
 be	misused	to	save	him.
Ares	4	hasn’t	even	launched	yet.	Why	misuse	an	MDV?	Why	not	make
 something	better?
We	don’t	have	time	to	make	a	custom	craft.	Actually,	he	can’t	even	survive
till	Ares	4	gets	there,	but	that’s	a	different	problem.
So	tell	me	about	the	MDV.
JPL	strips	it	down,	loses	some	weight,	and	adds	some	fuel	tanks.	Ares	4’s
 crew	lands	at	the	Ares	3	site,	very	efficiently.	Then,	with	a	full	burn,	and	I	mean
 a	full	burn,	they	can	lift	off	again.	It	can’t	get	back	to	orbit,	but	it	can	go	to	the
 Ares	4	site	on	a	lateral	trajectory	that’s,	well,	really	scary.	Then	they	have	an
 MAV.
How	are	they	losing	weight?
Don’t	they	already	have	it	as
 light	as	it	can	be?
By	removing	safety	and	emergency	equipment.
Wonderful,
So	we’d	be	risking	the	lives	of	six	more	people.
Yup,
It	would	be	safer	to	leave	the	Ares	4	crew	in	Hermes
 and	only	send	the	pilot	down	with	the	MDV.	But	that	would	mean	giving	up	the
 mission,	and	they’d	rather	risk	death.
They’re	astronauts,
They’re	astronauts,
Well.	That’s	a	ludicrous	idea	and	I’ll	never	okay	it.
We’ll	work	on	it	some	more,
Try	to	make	it	safer.
Do	that.	Any	idea	how	to	keep	him	alive	for	four	years?
Nope.
Work	on	that,	too.
Will	do,
What	must	it	be	like?
He’s	stuck	out	there.	He
 thinks	he’s	totally	alone	and	that	we	all	gave	up	on	him.	What	kind	of	effect
 does	that	have	on	a	man’s	psychology?
I	wonder	what	he’s	thinking	right	now.
warm-blooded
Fuck	it.
Sirius
failure,
learning	experience.
little	gray	cells
at	least	four	kilometers	away.
heat	fight.
Mark,	old	chap!	You	produce	carbon	dioxide!	It’s	all	part	of	the
 majestic	circle	of	nature!
HELLO,	AND	thank	you	for	joining	us,
Today
 on	CNN’s	Mark	Watney	Report:	Several	EVAs	over	the	past	few	days…what	do
 they	mean?	What	progress	has	NASA	made	on	a	rescue	option?	And	how	will
 this	affect	the	Ares	4	preparations?
 “Joining	us	today	is	Dr.	Venkat	Kapoor,	director	of	Mars	operations	for
 NASA.	Dr.	Kapoor,	thank	you	for	coming.
A	pleasure	to	be	here,	Cathy,
Dr.	Kapoor,
Mark	Watney	is	the	most-watched	man	in	the
 solar	system,	wouldn’t	you	say?
Certainly	the	most	watched	by	NASA.	We	have	all	twelve	of
 our	Martian	satellites	taking	pictures	whenever	his	site’s	in	view.	The	European
 Space	Agency	has	both	of	theirs	doing	the	same.
All	told,	how	often	do	you	get	these	images?
Every	few	minutes.	Sometimes	there’s	a	gap,	based	on	the	satellite	orbits.
 But	it’s	enough	that	we	can	track	all	his	EVA	activities.
Tell	us	about	these	latest	EVAs.
Well,
it	looks	like	he’s	preparing	Rover	2	for	a	long	trip.	On
 Sol	64,	he	took	the	battery	from	the	other	rover	and	attached	it	with	a	homemade
 sling.	The	next	day,	he	detached	fourteen	solar	cells	and	stacked	them	on	the
 rover’s	roof.
And	then	he	took	a	little	drive,	didn’t	he?
Yes	he	did.	Sort	of	aimlessly	for	an	hour,	then	back	to	the	Hab.	He	was
 probably	testing	it.	Next	time	we	saw	him	was	two	days	later,	when	he	drove
 four	kilometers	away,	then	back.	Another	incremental	test,	we	think.	Then,	over
 the	past	couple	of	days,	he’s	been	stocking	it	up	with	supplies.
Hmm,
most	analysts	think	Mark’s	only	hope	of	rescue	is	to	get
 to	the	Ares	4	site.	Do	you	think	he’s	come	to	the	same	conclusion?
Probably,
He	doesn’t	know	we’re	watching.	From	his	point	of
 view,	Ares	4	is	his	only	hope.
Do	you	think	he’s	planning	to	go	soon?	He	seems	to	be	getting	ready	for	a
 trip.
I	hope	not,
There’s	nothing	at	the	site	other	than	the	MAV.
 None	of	the	other	presupplies.	It	would	be	a	very	long,	very	dangerous	trip,	and
 he’d	be	leaving	the	safety	of	the	Hab	behind.
Why	would	he	risk	it?
Communication,
Once	he	reaches	the	MAV,	he	could	contact
 us.
So	that	would	be	a	good	thing,	wouldn’t	it?
Communication	would	be	a	great	thing.	But	traversing	thirty-two	hundred
 kilometers	to	Ares	4	is	incredibly	dangerous.	We’d	rather	he	stayed	put.	If	we
 could	talk	to	him,	we’d	certainly	tell	him	that.
He	can’t	stay	put	forever,	right?	Eventually	he’ll	need	to	get	to	the	MAV.
Not	necessarily,
JPL	is	experimenting	with	modifications	to
 the	MDV	so	it	can	make	a	brief	overland	flight	after	landing.
I’d	heard	that	idea	was	rejected	as	being	too	dangerous,
Their	first	proposal	was,	yes.	Since	then,	they’ve	been	working	on	safer	ways
 to	do	it.
With	only	three	and	a	half	years	before	Ares	4’s	scheduled	launch,	is	there
 enough	time	to	make	and	test	modifications	to	the	MDV?
I	can’t	answer	that	for	sure.	But	remember,	we	made	a	lunar	lander	from
 scratch	in	seven	years.
Excellent	point.
So	what	are	his	odds	right	now?
No	idea,
But	we’re	going	to	do	everything	we	can	to	bring
 him	home	alive.
How’d	I	do	today?
Eeeh,
You	shouldn’t	say	things	like
 ‘bring	him	home	alive.’	It	reminds	people	he	might	die.
Think	they’re	going	to	forget	that?
You	asked	my	opinion.	Don’t	like	it?	Go	fuck	yourself.
You’re	such	a	delicate	flower,	Annie.	How’d	you	end	up	NASA’s	director	of
 media	relations?
Beats	the	fuck	out	of	me,
Guys,
I	need	to	catch	a	flight	back	to	LA	in	three	hours.	Is
 Teddy	coming	or	what?
Quit	bitching,	Bruce,
None	of	us	want	to	be	here.
Who	are
 you,	again?
Um,
I’m	Mindy	Park.	I	work	in	SatCon.
You	a	director	or	something?
No,	I	just	work	in	SatCon.	I’m	a	nobody.
I	put	her	in	charge	of	tracking	Watney.	She	gets	us
 the	imagery.
Huh,
Not	the	director	of	SatCon?
Bob’s	got	more	to	deal	with	than	just	Mars.	Mindy’s	handling	all	the	Martian
 satellites,	and	keeps	them	pointed	at	Mark.
Why	Mindy?
She	noticed	he	was	alive	in	the	first	place.
She	gets	a	promotion	’cause	she	was	in	the	hot	seat	when	the	imagery	came
 through?
No,
she	gets	a	promotion	’cause	she	figured	out	he	was
 alive.	Stop	being	a	jerk,	Mitch.	You’re	making	her	feel	bad.
Didn’t	think	of	that.	Sorry,	Mindy.
’kay.
Sorry	I’m	late.
Let’s	get	started.	Venkat,	what’s	Watney’s	status?
Alive	and	well,
No	change	from	my	e-mail	earlier	today.
What	about	the	RTG?	Does	the	public	know	about	that	yet?
So	far,	so	good,
The	images	are	public,	but
 we	have	no	obligation	to	tell	them	our	analysis.	Nobody	has	figured	it	out	yet.
Why	did	he	dig	it	up?
Heat,	I	think,
He	wants	to	make	the	rover	do	long	trips.	It
 uses	a	lot	of	energy	keeping	warm.	The	RTG	can	heat	up	the	interior	without
 soaking	battery	power.	It’s	a	good	idea,	really.
How	dangerous	is	it?
As	long	as	the	container’s	intact,	no	danger	at	all.	Even	if	it	cracks	open,
 he’ll	be	okay	if	the	pellets	inside	don’t	break.	But	if	the	pellets	break,	too,	he’s	a
 dead	man.
Let’s	hope	that	doesn’t	happen,
JPL,	how	are	the	MDV	plans
 coming	along?
We	came	up	with	a	plan	a	long	time	ago,
You	rejected	it.
Bruce,
The	MDV	wasn’t	made	for	liftoff	and	lateral	flight.	Packing
 more	fuel	in	doesn’t	help.	We’d	need	a	bigger	engine	and	don’t	have	time	to
 invent	one.	So	we	need	to	lighten	the	MDV.	We	have	an	idea	for	that.
 “The	MDV	can	be	its	normal	weight	on	primary	descent.	If	we	made	the	heat
 shield	and	outer	hull	detachable,	they	could	ditch	a	lot	of	weight	after	landing	at
 Ares	3,	and	have	a	lighter	ship	for	the	traverse	to	Ares	4.	We’re	running	the
 numbers	now.
Keep	me	posted,
Miss	Park,	welcome	to
 the	big	leagues.
Sir,
What’s	the	biggest	gap	in	coverage	we	have	on	Watney	right	now?
Um,
Once	every	forty-one	hours,	we’ll	have	a	seventeen
minute	gap.	The	orbits	work	out	that	way.
You	had	an	immediate	answer,
Good.	I	like	it	when	people	are
 organized.
Thank	you,	sir.
I	want	that	gap	down	to	four	minutes,
I’m	giving	you	total
 authority	over	satellite	trajectories	and	orbital	adjustments.	Make	it	happen.
Yes,	sir,
Mitch,	your	e-mail	said	you	had	something	urgent?
Yeah,
How	long	are	we	gonna	keep	this	from	the	Ares	3	crew?
 They	all	think	Watney’s	dead.	It’s	a	huge	drain	on	morale.
Mitch,
We	discussed	this—
No,	you	discussed	it,
They	think	they	lost	a	crewmate.
 They’re	devastated.
And	when	they	find	out	they	abandoned	a	crewmate?
Will
 they	feel	better	then?
They	deserve	to	know.	You	think
 Commander	Lewis	can’t	handle	the	truth?
It’s	a	matter	of	morale,
They	can	concentrate	on	getting	home
 —
I	make	that	call,
I’m	the	one	who	decides	what’s	best	for	the
 crew.	And	I	say	we	bring	them	up	to	speed.
Sorry,	Mitch,	I’m	with	Venkat	on	this	one,
But	as	soon	as	we	come	up	with	a	plan	for	rescue,	we	can	tell	Hermes.
 There	needs	to	be	some	hope,	or	there’s	no	point	in	telling	them.
Bullshit,
Total	bullshit.
I	know	you’re	upset,
We’ll	make	it	right.	Just	as	soon
 as	we	have	some	idea	how	to	save	Watney.
Okay,	JPL’s	on	the	rescue	option,
But	it
would	be	part	of	Ares	4.	How	does	he	stay	alive	till	then?	Venkat?
I	had	every
 team	check	and	double-check	the	longevity	of	their	systems.	We’re	pretty	sure
 the	Hab	can	keep	working	for	four	years.	Especially	with	a	human	occupant
 fixing	problems	as	they	arise.	But	there’s	no	way	around	the	food	issue.	He’ll
 start	starving	in	a	year.	We	have	to	send	him	supplies.	Simple	as	that.
What	about	an	Ares	4	presupply?
Land	it	at	Ares	3	instead.
That’s	what	we’re	thinking,	yeah,
Problem	is,	the
 original	plan	was	to	launch	presupplies	a	year	from	now.	They’re	not	ready	yet.
 “It	takes	eight	months	to	get	a	probe	to	Mars	in	the	best	of	times.	The
 positions	of	Earth	and	Mars	right	now…it’s	not	the	best	of	times.	We	figure	we
 can	get	there	in	nine	months.	Presuming	he’s	rationing	his	food,	he’s	got	enough
 to	last	three	hundred	and	fifty	more	days.	That	means	we	need	to	build	a
 presupply	in	three	months.	JPL	hasn’t	even	started	yet.
That’ll	be	tight,
Making	a	presupply	is	a	six-month	process.
 We’re	set	up	to	pipeline	a	bunch	of	them	at	once,	not	to	make	one	in	a	hurry.
Sorry,	Bruce,
I	know	we’re	asking	a	lot,	but	you	have	to	find	a
 way.
We’ll	find	a	way,
But	the	OT	alone	will	be	a	nightmare.
Get	started.	I’ll	find	you	the	money.
There’s	also	the	booster,
The	only	way	to	get	a	probe	to	Mars
 with	the	planets	in	their	current	positions	is	to	spend	a	butt-load	of	fuel.	We	only
 have	one	booster	capable	of	doing	that.	The	Delta	IX	that’s	on	the	pad	right	now
 for	the	EagleEye	3	Saturn	probe.	We’ll	have	to	steal	that.	I	talked	to	ULA,	and
 they	just	can’t	make	another	booster	in	time.
The	EagleEye	3	team	will	be	pissed,	but	okay,
We	can	delay
 their	mission	if	JPL	gets	the	payload	done	in	time.
We’ll	do	our	best.
He’ll	starve	to	death	if	you	don’t,
NASA’s	a	large	organization,
It	doesn’t	deal	with	sudden	change
 well.	The	only	reason	we’re	getting	away	with	it	is	the	desperate	circumstances.
 Everyone’s	pulling	together	to	save	Mark	Watney,	with	no	interdepartmental
 squabbling.	I	can’t	tell	you	how	rare	that	is.	Even	then,	this	is	going	to	cost	tens
 of	millions,	maybe	hundreds	of	millions	of	dollars.	The	MDV	modifications
 alone	are	an	entire	project	that’s	being	staffed	up.	Hopefully,	the	public	interest
 will	make	your	job	easier.	We	appreciate	your	continued	support,	Congressman,
 and	hope	you	can	sway	the	committee	toward	granting	us	the	emergency	funding
 we	need.
Sorry	to	bother	you,
No	bother,
I	could	use	a	break.	What’s	up?
He’s	on	the	move,
Any	chance	it’s	a	test	drive?
He	drove	straightaway	from	the	Hab	for	almost	two
 hours,	did	a	short	EVA,	then	drove	for	another	two.	We	think	the	EVA	was	to
 change	batteries.
Maybe	it’s	just	a	longer	test?	An	overnight	trip	kind
 of	thing?
He’s	seventy-six	kilometers	from	the	Hab,
For	an	overnight
 test,	wouldn’t	he	stay	within	walking	distance?
Yes,	he	would,
Damn	it.	We’ve	had	teams	run	every
 conceivable	scenario.	There’s	just	no	way	he	can	make	it	to	Ares	4	with	that
 setup.	We	never	saw	him	load	up	the	oxygenator	or	water	reclaimer.	He	can’t
 possibly	have	enough	basics	to	live	long	enough.
I	don’t	think	he’s	going	to	Ares	4,
If	he	is,	he’s	taking	a	weird
 path.
Oh?
He	went	south-southwest.	Schiaparelli	crater	is	southeast.
Okay,	maybe	there’s	hope,
What’s	he	doing	right	now?
Recharging.	He’s	got	all	the	solar	cells	set	up,
Last	time	he	did
that,	it	took	twelve	hours.	I	was	going	to	sneak	home	for	some	sleep	if	that’s
 okay.
Sure,	sounds	good.	We’ll	see	what	he	does	tomorrow.	Maybe	he’ll	go	back
 to	the	Hab.
Maybe,
WELCOME	BACK,
We’re	chatting	with	Marcus
 Washington,	from	the	US	Postal	Service.	So,	Mr.	Washington,	I	understand	the
 Ares	3	mission	caused	a	postal	service	first.	Can	you	explain	that	to	our
 viewers?
Uh	yeah,
Everyone	thought	Mark	Watney	was	dead	for	over
 two	months.	In	that	time,	the	postal	service	issued	a	run	of	commemorative
 stamps	honoring	his	memory.	Twenty	thousand	were	printed	and	sent	to	post
 offices	around	the	country.
And	then	it	turned	out	he	was	alive,
Yeah,
We	don’t	print	stamps	of	living	people.	So	we	stopped
 the	run	immediately	and	recalled	the	stamps,	but	thousands	were	already	sold.
Has	this	ever	happened	before?
No.	Not	once	in	the	history	of	the	postal	service.
I	bet	they’re	worth	a	pretty	penny	now.
Maybe.	But	like	I	said,	thousands	were	sold.	They’ll	be
 rare,	but	not	super-rare.
We’ve	been	speaking	with
 Marcus	Washington	of	the	United	States	Postal	Service.	If	you’ve	got	a	Mark
 Watney	commemorative	stamp,	you	might	want	to	hold	on	to	it.	Thanks	for
 dropping	by,	Mr.	Washington.
Thanks	for	having	me,
Our	next	guest	is	Dr.	Irene	Shields,	flight	psychologist	for	the	Ares	missions.
 Dr.	Shields,	welcome	to	the	program.
Thank	you,
Do	you	know	Mark	Watney	personally?
Of	course,
I	did	monthly	psych	evaluations	on	each	member	of
 the	crew.
What	can	you	tell	us	about	him?	His	personality,	his	mind-set?
Well,
he’s	very	intelligent.	All	of	them	are,	of	course.	But	he’s
 particularly	resourceful	and	a	good	problem-solver.
That	may	save	his	life,
It	may	indeed,
Also,	he’s	a	good-natured	man.	Usually
 cheerful,	with	a	great	sense	of	humor.	He’s	quick	with	a	joke.	In	the	months
 leading	up	to	launch,	the	crew	was	put	through	a	grueling	training	schedule.
 They	all	showed	signs	of	stress	and	moodiness.	Mark	was	no	exception,	but	the
 way	he	showed	it	was	to	crack	more	jokes	and	get	everyone	laughing.
He	sounds	like	a	great	guy,
He	really	is,
He	was	chosen	for	the	mission	in	part	because	of
 his	personality.	An	Ares	crew	has	to	spend	thirteen	months	together.	Social
 compatibility	is	key.	Mark	not	only	fits	well	in	any	social	group,	he’s	a	catalyst
 to	make	the	group	work	better.	It	was	a	terrible	blow	to	the	crew	when	he
 ‘died.’
And	they	still	think	he’s	dead,	right?	The	Ares	3	crew?
Yes,	they	do,	unfortunately,
The	higher-ups	decided	to
 keep	it	from	them,	at	least	for	now.	I’m	sure	it	wasn’t	an	easy	decision.
All	right.	You	know	I	have	to	ask:
 What’s	going	through	his	head	right	now?	How	does	a	man	like	Mark	Watney
 respond	to	a	situation	like	this?	Stranded,	alone,	no	idea	we’re	trying	to	help?
There’s	no	way	to	be	sure,
The	biggest	threat	is	giving	up	hope.
 If	he	decides	there’s	no	chance	to	survive,	he’ll	stop	trying.
Then	we’re	okay	for	now,	right?
He	seems	to	be	working	hard.
 He’s	prepping	the	rover	for	a	long	trip	and	testing	it.	He	plans	to	be	there	when
 Ares	4	lands.
That’s	one	interpretation,	yes,
Is	there	another?
When	facing	death,
 people	want	to	be	heard.	They	don’t	want	to	die	alone.	He	might	just	want	the
 MAV	radio	so	he	can	talk	to	another	soul	before	he	dies.
 “If	he’s	lost	hope,	he	won’t	care	about	survival.	His	only	concern	will	be
 making	it	to	the	radio.	After	that,	he’ll	probably	take	an	easier	way	out	than
starvation.	The	medical	supplies	of	an	Ares	mission	have	enough	morphine	to	be
 lethal.
We’ll	be	right	back.
HEYA,	VENK.
Bruce,	hi,
Thanks	for	clearing	up
 some	time.	I	wanted	to	talk	about	the	presupply.
Sure	thing.	What’s	on	your	mind?
Let’s	say	we	soft-land	it	perfectly.	How	will	Mark	know	it	happened?	And
 how	will	he	know	where	to	look?
We’ve	been	thinking	about	that,
We’ve	got	some	ideas.
I’m	all	ears,
We’ll	be	sending	him	a	comm	system	anyway,	right?	We	could	have	it	turn
 on	after	landing.	It’ll	broadcast	on	the	rover	and	EVA	suit	frequencies.	It’ll	have
 to	be	a	strong	signal,	too.
 “The	rovers	were	only	designed	to	communicate	with	the	Hab	and	each	other;
 the	signal	origin	was	presumed	to	be	within	twenty	kilometers.	The	receivers
 just	aren’t	very	sensitive.	The	EVA	suits	are	even	worse.	But	as	long	as	we	have
 a	strong	signal	we	should	be	good.	Once	we	land	the	presupply,	we’ll	get	its
 exact	location	from	satellites,	then	broadcast	that	to	Mark	so	he	can	go	get	it.
But	he’s	probably	not	listening,
Why	would	he	be?
We	have	a	plan	for	that.	We’re	going	to	make	a	bunch	of	bright	green
 ribbons.	Light	enough	to	flutter	around	when	dropped,	even	in	Mars’s
 atmosphere.	Each	ribbon	will	have	‘MARK:	TURN	ON	YOUR	COMM’	printed
 on	it.	We’re	working	on	a	release	mechanism	now.	During	the	landing	sequence,
 of	course.	Ideally,	about	a	thousand	meters	above	the	surface.
I	like	it,
All	he	needs	to	do	is	notice	one.	And	he’s	sure	to
 check	out	a	bright	green	ribbon	if	he	sees	one	outside.
Venk,
If	he	takes	the	‘Watneymobile’	to	Ares	4,	this’ll	all	be
 for	nothing.	I	mean,	we	can	land	it	at	Ares	4	if	that	happens,	but…
But	he’ll	be	without	a	Hab.	Yeah,
One	thing	at	a	time.	Let	me
know	when	you	come	up	with	a	release	mechanism	for	those	ribbons.
Will	do.
Watney’s	on	the	move
 again.
STILL	GOING	in	a	straight	line,
I	see,
He’s	sure	as	hell	not	going	to	Ares	4.	Unless	he’s	going
 around	some	natural	obstacle.
There’s	nothing	for	him	to	go	around,
It’s	Acidalia	Planitia.
Are	those	the	solar	cells?
Yeah,
He	did	the	usual	two-hour	drive,	EVA,	two-hour	drive.
 He’s	one	hundred	and	fifty-six	kilometers	from	the	Hab	now.
Wait…,
Wait,	no	way…
What?
Give	me	his	location,	and	the
 location	of	the	Hab.
He’s	currently	at…28.9	degrees	north,	29.6
 degrees	west.
The	Hab’s	at
 31.2	degrees	north,	28.5	degrees	west.	What	do	you	see?
Come	with	me,
Um,
Where	are	we	going?
SatCon	break	room,
You	guys	still	have	that	map	of	Mars	on
 the	wall?
Sure,
But	it’s	just	a	poster	from	the	gift	shop.	I’ve	got	high
quality	digital	maps	on	my	computer—
Nope.	I	can’t	draw	on	those,
I	can	draw	on	that.
Good,	it	has	latitude	and	longitude	lines,
That’s	the	Hab,
Hey,
Are	you	drawing	on	our	poster?
I’ll	buy	you	a	new	one,
That’s	his	current	location.	Get	me	a	ruler.
Hey!
Yup!	That’s	where	he’s	going!
Oh!
Pathfinder!
He’s	going	to	Pathfinder!
Yup!
Now	we’re	getting	somewhere.	It’s	like	eight	hundred
 kilometers	from	him.	He	can	get	there	and	back	with	supplies	on	hand.
And	bring	Pathfinder	and	Sojourner	rover	back	with	him,
We	lost	contact	with	Pathfinder	in	1997.	If
 he	can	get	it	online	again,	we	can	communicate.	It	might	just	need	the	solar	cells
 cleaned.	Even	if	it’s	got	a	bigger	problem,	he’s	an	engineer!
Fixing	things	is	his	job!
Bruce?	It’s	Venkat.	Everything	just	changed.	Watney’s
 headed	for	Pathfinder.	Yeah!	I	know,	right!?	Dig	up	everyone	who	was	on	that
 project	and	get	them	to	JPL	now.	I’ll	catch	the	next	flight.
Mark,	you	sneaky,	clever,	son	of	a
 bitch!
Carl	Sagan	Memorial	Station.
Lewis	Valley
Mars	numbers.
15
Why	didn’t	you	do
 stretching	exercises?	Your	body	is	important!	Eat	more	fiber,
Missed	Orbit
a	little	cramped
we
 wanted	to	kill	each	other.
LiSOCl2	NON-RCHRG
fuck	you
Spare	Parts
workbench,
SOMETHING’S	COMING	IN…yes…yes!	It’s	Pathfinder!
God	damn,	Bruce.	You	really	pulled	a	rabbit	out	of
 your	hat	this	time!	Good	work!
I’m	just	the	director,
Thank	the	guys	who	got	all	this
 stuff	working.
Oh	I	will!
But	first	I	have	to	talk	to	my	new	best	friend!
What’s	your	name,	new	best	friend?
Tim,
What	now?
We	sent	the	return	telemetry	automatically.	It’ll	get	there	in	just	over	eleven
 minutes.	Once	it	does,	Pathfinder	will	start	high-gain	transmissions.	So	it’ll	be
 twenty-two	minutes	till	we	hear	from	it	again.
Venkat’s	got	a	doctorate	in	physics,	Tim,
You	don’t	need	to
explain	transmission	time	to	him.
You	can	never	tell	with	managers.
What	was	in	the	transmission	we	got?
Just	the	bare	bones.	A	hardware	self-check.	It’s	got	a	lot	of	‘nonfunctional’
 systems,	’cause	they	were	on	the	panels	Watney	removed.
What	about	the	camera?
It	says	the	imager’s	working.	We’ll	have	it	take	a	panorama	as	soon	as	we
 can.
We	received	the	high-gain	response	just	over	half	an	hour	ago,
We	immediately	directed	Pathfinder	to	take	a	panoramic
 image.	Hopefully,	Watney	has	some	kind	of	message	for	us.	Questions?
Cathy,	let’s	start	with	you,
Thanks,
Have	you	had	any	contact	with	the	Sojourner	rover?
Unfortunately,	no,
The	lander	hasn’t	been	able	to	connect	to
 Sojourner,	and	we	have	no	way	to	contact	it	directly.
What	might	be	wrong	with	Sojourner?
I	can’t	even	speculate,
After	spending	that	long	on	Mars,
 anything	could	be	wrong	with	it.
Best	guess?
Our	best	guess	is	he	took	it	into	the	Hab.	The	lander’s	signal	wouldn’t	be
 able	to	reach	Sojourner	through	Hab	canvas.
You,	there.
Marty	West,	NBC	News,
How	will	you	communicate	with
 Watney	once	everything’s	up	and	running?
That’ll	be	up	to	Watney,
All	we	have	to	work	with	is	the
 camera.	He	can	write	notes	and	hold	them	up.	But	how	we	talk	back	is	trickier.
How	so?
Because	all	we	have	is	the	camera	platform.	That’s	the	only	moving	part.
 There	are	plenty	of	ways	to	get	information	across	with	just	the	platform’s
 rotation,	but	no	way	to	tell	Watney	about	them.	He’ll	have	to	come	up	with
 something	and	tell	us.	We’ll	follow	his	lead.
Go	ahead.
Jill	Holbrook,	BBC.	With	a	thirty-two-minute	round-trip	and	nothing	but	a
 single	rotating	platform	to	talk	with,	it’ll	be	a	dreadfully	slow	conversation,
 won’t	it?
Yes	it	will,
It’s	early	morning	in	Acidalia	Planitia	right
 now,	and	just	past	three	a.m.	here	in	Pasadena.	We’ll	be	here	all	night,	and	that’s
 just	for	a	start.	No	more	questions	for	now.	The	panorama	is	due	back	in	a	few
minutes.	We’ll	keep	you	posted.
Anything,	Tim?
Totally,
But	we’re	staring	at	this	black	screen	because	it’s	way
 more	interesting	than	pictures	from	Mars.
You’re	a	smart-ass,	Tim,
Noted.
Still	another	few	seconds	on	the	clock,
Getting	something,
Yup.	It’s	the	panoramic.
Martian	surface…,
More
 surface…
Edge	of	the	Hab!
Hab,
More	Hab	now…more	Hab…Is	that	a	message?
 That’s	a	message!
We	got	a	note	from	Mark!
What’s	it	say?
It	says…‘I’ll	write	questions	here—Are
 you	receiving?’
Okay…?
That’s	what	it	says,
Another	note,
This	one	says	‘Point	here	for	yes.’
All	right.	We	have	communication	with	Mark.	Tim,
point	the	camera	at	‘Yes.’	Then,	start	taking	pictures	at	ten-minute	intervals	until
 he	puts	another	question	up.
Yes!
Yes!
yes
Excuse	me,
Yes,	they’re	out	of	Diet	Coke,
I	don’t
 know	when	Site	Services	refills	the	fridge.
I’m	actually	here	to	talk	to	you,	Dr.	Kapoor.
Huh?
Sorry,	I	was	up	all
 night.
Who	are	you	again?
Jack	Trevor,
I	work	in	software
 engineering.
What	can	I	do	for	you?
We	have	an	idea	for	communication.
I’m	all	ears.
We’ve	been	looking	through	the	old	Pathfinder	software.	We	got	duplicate
 computers	up	and	running	for	testing.	Same	computers	they	used	to	find	a
 problem	that	almost	killed	the	original	mission.	Real	interesting	story,	actually;
 turns	out	there	was	a	priority	inversion	in	Sojourner’s	thread	management	and
 —
Focus,	Jack,
Right.	Well,	the	thing	is,	Pathfinder	has	an	OS	update	process.	So	we	can
 change	the	software	to	anything	we	want.
How	does	this	help	us?
Pathfinder	has	two	communications	systems.	One	to	talk	to	us,	the	other	to
 talk	to	Sojourner.	We	can	change	the	second	system	to	broadcast	on	the	Ares	3
 rover	frequency.	And	we	can	have	it	pretend	to	be	the	beacon	signal	from	the
 Hab.
You	can	get	Pathfinder	talking	to	Mark’s	rover?
It’s	the	only	option.	The	Hab’s	radio	is	dead,	but	the	rover	has
 communications	equipment	made	for	talking	to	the	Hab	and	the	other	rover.
 Problem	is,	to	implement	a	new	comm	system,	both	ends	of	it	need	to	have	the
 right	software	running.	We	can	remotely	update	Pathfinder,	but	not	the	rover.
So,
you	can	get	Pathfinder	to	talk	to	the	rover,	but	you	can’t
 get	the	rover	to	listen	or	talk	back.
Right.	Ideally,	we	want	our	text	to	show	up	on	the	rover	screen,	and
whatever	Watney	types	to	be	sent	back	to	us.	That	requires	a	change	to	the
 rover’s	software.
What’s	the	point	of	this	discussion	if	we	can’t	update	the
 rover’s	software?
We	can’t	do	the	patch,	but	Watney	can!	We
 can	just	send	the	data,	and	have	him	enter	the	update	into	the	rover	himself.
How	much	data	are	we	talking	about?
I	have	guys	working	on	the	rover	software	right	now.	The	patch	file	will	be
 twenty	meg,	minimum.	We	can	send	one	byte	to	Watney	every	four	seconds	or
 so	with	the	‘Speak&Spell.’	It’d	take	three	years	of	constant	broadcasting	to	get
 that	patch	across.	Obviously,	that’s	no	good.
But	you’re	talking	to	me,	so	you	have	a	solution,	right?
Of	course!
Software	engineers	are	sneaky	bastards	when	it
 comes	to	data	management.
Enlighten	me,
Here’s	the	clever	part,
The	rover	currently
 parses	the	signal	into	bytes,	then	identifies	the	specific	sequence	the	Hab	sends.
 That	way,	natural	radio	waves	won’t	throw	off	the	homing.	If	the	bytes	aren’t
 right,	the	rover	ignores	them.
Okay,	so	what?
It	means	there’s	a	spot	in	the	code	base	where	it’s	got	the	parsed	bytes.	We
 can	insert	a	tiny	bit	of	code,	just	twenty	instructions,	to	write	the	parsed	bytes	to
 a	log	file	before	checking	their	validity.
This	sounds	promising…,
It	is!
First,	we	update	Pathfinder	so	it	knows	how	to
 talk	to	the	rover.	Then,	we	tell	Watney	exactly	how	to	hack	the	rover	software	to
 add	those	twenty	instructions.	Then	we	have	Pathfinder	broadcast	new	software
 to	the	rover.	The	rover	logs	the	bytes	to	a	file.	Finally,	Watney	launches	the	file
 as	an	executable	and	the	rover	patches	itself!
Um,
You’re	not	cheering	or	dancing.
So	we	just	need	to	send	Watney	those	twenty	instructions?
That,	and	how	to	edit	the	files.	And	where	to	insert	the	instructions	in	the
 files.
Just	like	that?
Just	like	that!
Jack,	I’m	going	to	buy	your	whole	team
 autographed	Star	Trek	memorabilia.
I	prefer	Star	Wars,
The	original	trilogy	only,	of
 course.
Of	course,
Yes?
I	can’t	find	any	Diet	Coke,	are	we	out?
Yes,
I	don’t	know	when	Site	Services	refills	the	fridge.
Thanks,
Hello?
I	need	a	picture	of	Watney.
Hi,	Annie.	Nice	to	hear	from	you,	too.	How	are	things	back	in	Houston?
Cut	the	shit,	Venkat.	I	need	a	picture.
It’s	not	that	simple,
You’re	talking	to	him	with	a	fucking	camera.	How	hard	can	it	be?
We	spell	out	our	message,	wait	twenty	minutes,	and	then	take	a	picture.
 Watney’s	back	in	the	Hab	by	then.
So	tell	him	to	be	around	when	you	take	the	next	picture,
We	can	only	send	one	message	per	hour,	and	only	when	Acidalia	Planitia	is
 facing	Earth,
We’re	not	going	to	waste	a	message	just	to	tell	him
 to	pose	for	a	photo.	Besides,	he’ll	be	in	his	EVA	suit.	You	won’t	even	be	able	to
 see	his	face.
I	need	something,	Venkat,
You’ve	been	in	contact	for	twenty
four	hours	and	the	media	is	going	ape	shit.	They	want	an	image	for	the	story.
 It’ll	be	on	every	news	site	in	the	world.
You	have	the	pictures	of	his	notes.	Make	do	with	that.
Not	enough,
The	press	is	crawling	down	my	throat	for	this.
 And	up	my	ass.	Both	directions,	Venkat!	They’re	gonna	meet	in	the	middle!
It’ll	have	to	wait	a	few	days.	We’re	going	to	try	and	link	Pathfinder	to	the
 rover	computer—
A	few	days!?
This	is	all	anyone	cares	about	right	now.	In
 the	world.	This	is	the	biggest	story	since	Apollo	13.	Give	me	a	fucking	picture!
I’ll	try	to	get	it	tomorrow.
Great!
Looking	forward	to	it.
Can	hack	rover	to	talk	to	Pathfinder.	Prepare	for
 long	message.
long	message,
hexedit
I	ASK	for	a	picture,	and	I	get	the	Fonz?
You	got	your	picture,	quit	bitching,
Ayyyyyy!
Why	would	he	do	that?
Have	you	met	Mark	Watney?
Fine,	fine,
But	I	want	a	pic	of	his	face	ASAP.
Can’t	do	that.
Why	not?
Because	if	he	takes	off	his	helmet,	he’ll	die.	Annie,	I	have	to	go,	one	of	the
 JPL	programmers	is	here	and	it’s	urgent.	Bye!
But—
It’s	not	urgent.
Yeah,	I	know,
What	can	I	do	for	you?
We	were	thinking,
This	rover	hack	might	get	kind	of	detailed.
We	may	have	to	do	a	bunch	of	back-and-forth	communication	with	Watney.
That’s	fine,
Take	your	time,	do	it	right.
We	could	get	things	done	faster	with	a	shorter	transmission	time,
Do	you	have	a	plan	for	moving	Earth	and
 Mars	closer	together?
Earth	doesn’t	have	to	be	involved,
Hermes	is	seventy-three
 million	kilometers	from	Mars	right	now.	Only	four	light-minutes	away.	Beth
 Johanssen	is	a	great	programmer.	She	could	talk	Mark	through	it.
Out	of	the	question,
She’s	the	mission	sysop.
This	is	her	exact	area	of
 expertise.
Can’t	do	it,	Jack.	The	crew	still	doesn’t	know.
What	is	with	you?	Why	won’t	you	just	tell	them?
Watney’s	not	my	only	responsibility,
I’ve	got	five	other
 astronauts	in	deep	space	who	have	to	concentrate	on	their	return	trip.	Nobody
 thinks	about	it,	but	statistically	they’re	in	more	danger	than	Watney	right	now.
 He’s	on	a	planet.	They’re	in	space.
Fine,	we’ll	do	it	the	slow	way.
L
LCD
Liquid.
Brought	product	to	surface	of	Mars.	It
 stopped	working.	0/10.
Come	on	up	here,	Jack,
You	get	to	be	the	most	Timward
 today.
Thanks,
Heya,	Tim!
Jack,
How	long	will	the	patch	take?
Should	be	pretty	much	instant,
Watney	entered	the	hack
 earlier	today,	and	we	confirmed	it	worked.	We	updated	Pathfinder’s	OS	without
 any	problems.	We	sent	the	rover	patch,	which	Pathfinder	rebroadcast.	Once
 Watney	executes	the	patch	and	reboots	the	rover,	we	should	get	a	connection.
Jesus,	what	a	complicated	process,
Try	updating	a	Linux	server	sometime,
You	know	he	was	telling	a	joke,	right?
 That	was	supposed	to	be	funny.
Oh,
I’m	a	physics	guy,	not	a	computer	guy.
He’s	not	funny	to	computer	guys,	either.
You’re	a	very	unpleasant	man,	Tim,
System’s	online,
What?
It’s	online.	FYI.
Holy	crap!
It	worked!
Hi,	Mom!
crops.
THANK	YOU,	Mr.	President,
I	appreciate	the	call,
 and	I’ll	pass	your	congratulations	on	to	the	whole	organization.
This	a	good	time?
Come	in,	Mitch,
Have	a	seat.
Thanks,
How’s	Mission	Control?
Fantastic,
All’s	well	with	Hermes.	And	everyone’s	in	great
 spirits	thanks	to	what’s	going	on	at	JPL.	Today	was	a	damn	good	day	for	a
 change!
Yes,	it	was,
Another	step	closer	to	getting	Watney	back
 alive.
Yeah,	about	that,
You	probably	know	why	I’m	here.
I	can	take	a	guess,
You	want	to	tell	the	crew	Watney’s	alive.
Yes,
And	you’re	bringing	this	up	with	me	while	Venkat	is	in	Pasadena,	so	he	can’t
 argue	the	other	side.
I	shouldn’t	have	to	clear	this	with	you	or	Venkat	or	anyone	else.	I’m	the
 flight	director.	It	should	have	been	my	call	from	the	beginning,	but	you	two
 stepped	in	and	overrode	me.	Ignoring	all	that,	we	agreed	we’d	tell	them	when
 there	was	hope.	And	now	there’s	hope.	We’ve	got	communication,	we	have	a
 plan	for	rescue	in	the	works,	and	his	farm	buys	us	enough	time	to	get	him
 supplies.
Okay,	tell	them,
Just	like	that?
I	knew	you’d	be	here	sooner	or	later,	so	I	already	thought	it	through	and
 decided.	Go	ahead	and	tell	them.
All	right.	Thanks,
Hang	in	there,	Watney,
We’re	coming.
Good	morning,	crew!
It’s	a	brand-new	day!	Sol	6!	Up
 and	at	’em!
Come	on,
no	bitching.	You	got	forty	minutes	more	sleep
 than	you	would’ve	on	Earth.
Morning,	Commander,
Noisy	people,	go	away,
Beck!
Rise	and	shine,
 bud!
Yeah,	okay,
Let’s	move,	Watney!
 Uncle	Sam	paid	a	hundred	thousand	dollars	for	every	second	we’ll	be	here.
Bad	woman	take	pillow,
Back	on	Earth,	I’ve	tipped	two-hundred-pound	men	out	of	their	bunks.	Want
 to	see	what	I	can	do	in	0.4	g?
No,	not	really,
Hand	me	an	‘eggs,’	will	ya,
You	can	tell	the	difference?
Not	really,
Beck,	what’ll	you	have?
Don’t	care,
Give	me	whatever.
Vogel,	your	usual	sausages?
Ja,	please,
You	know	you’re	a	stereotype,	right?
I	am	comfortable	with	that,
Hey	Sunshine,
Eating	breakfast	today?
Mnrrn,
Pretty	sure	that’s	a	no,
Mission	updates	from	Houston,
Satellites	show	a	storm
 coming,	but	we	can	do	surface	ops	before	it	gets	here.	Vogel,	Martinez,	you’ll	be
 with	me	outside.	Johanssen,	you’re	stuck	tracking	weather	reports.	Watney,	your
 soil	experiments	are	bumped	up	to	today.	Beck,	run	the	samples	from
 yesterday’s	EVA	through	the	spectrometer.
Should	you	really	go	out	with	a	storm	on	the	way?
Houston	authorized	it,
Seems	needlessly	dangerous.
Coming	to	Mars	was	needlessly	dangerous,
What’s	your
 point?
Just	be	careful.
The	storm,
it	is	closer	than	Houston
 reported.
We’ve	got	time,
Focus	on	the	task	at	hand.	This	EVA’s	all
 about	chemical	analysis.	Vogel,	you’re	the	chemist,	so	you’re	in	charge	of	what
 we	dig	up.
Ja,
Please	dig	thirty	centimeters	and	get	soil	samples.	At	least
 one	hundred	grams	each.	Very	important	is	thirty	centimeters	down.
Will	do,
Stay	within	a	hundred	meters	of	the	Hab,
Mm,
Yes,	ma’am,
How	many	samples	do	you	need?
Seven	each,	perhaps?
That’s	fine,
I’ve	got	four	so	far.
Five	here,
Of	course,	we	can’t	expect	the	navy	to	keep	up
 with	the	air	force,	now	can	we?
So	that’s	how	you	want	to	play	it?
Just	call	’em	as	I	see	’em,	Commander.
Johanssen	here.
Houston’s
 upgraded	the	storm	to	‘severe.’	It’s	going	to	be	here	in	fifteen	minutes.
Back	to	base,
Sustained	winds	over	one	hundred	kph	now,
Gusting	to	one
 twenty-five.
Jesus,	we’re	gonna	end	up	in	Oz,
What’s	the	abort	wind
 speed?
Technically	one	fifty	kph,
Any	more	than	that	and	the
 MAV’s	in	danger	of	tipping.
Any	predictions	on	the	storm	track?
This	is	the	edge	of	it,
It’s	gonna	get
 worse	before	it	gets	better.
All	right,
Prep	for	abort.	We’ll	go	to	the	MAV	and	hope	for	the
 best.	If	the	wind	gets	too	high,	we’ll	launch.
Visibility	is	almost	zero,
If	you	get	lost,	home	in	on	my	suit’s
 telemetry.	The	wind’s	gonna	be	rougher	away	from	the	Hab,	so	be	ready.
Hey,
Maybe	we	could	shore	up	the	MAV.	Make	tipping
 less	likely.
How?
We	could	use	cables	from	the	solar	farm	as	guylines.
The	rovers	could	be	anchors.	The	trick	would	be
 getting	the	line	around	the—
Watney!
What	happened?
Something	hit	him!
Watney,	report,
Watney,	report,
He’s	offline,
I	don’t	know	where	he	is!
Commander,
before	we	lost	telemetry,	his	decompression	alarm
 went	off!
Shit!
Johanssen,	where	did	you	last	see	him?
He	was	right	in	front	of	me	and	then	he	was	gone,
He	flew	off
 due	west.
Okay,
Martinez,	get	to	the	MAV	and	prep	for	launch.
 Everyone	else,	home	in	on	Johanssen.
Dr.	Beck,
how	long	can	a
 person	survive	decompression?
Less	than	a	minute,
I	can’t	see	anything,
Line	up	and	walk	west,
Small	steps.	He’s	probably
 prone;	we	don’t	want	to	step	over	him.
Commander,
The	MAV’s	got	a	seven-degree	tilt.	It’ll	tip	at
 12.3.
Copy	that,
Johanssen,
Watney’s	bio-monitor
 sent	something	before	going	offline.	My	computer	just	says	‘Bad	Packet.’
I	have	it,	too,
It	didn’t	finish	transmitting.	Some	data’s
 missing,	and	there’s	no	checksum.	Gimme	a	sec.
Commander,
Message	from	Houston.	We’re	officially
 scrubbed.	The	storm’s	definitely	gonna	be	too	rough.
Copy,
They	sent	that	four	and	a	half	minutes	ago,
while
 looking	at	satellite	data	from	nine	minutes	ago.
Understood,
Continue	prepping	for	launch.
Copy,
Beck,
I	have	the	raw	packet.	It’s	plaintext:	BP	0,	PR	0,	TP
 36.2.	That’s	as	far	as	it	got.
Copy,
Blood	pressure	zero,	pulse	rate	zero,
 temperature	normal.
Temperature	normal?
It	takes	a	while	for	the—
It	takes	a	while	to	cool.
Commander,
Tilting	at	10.5	degrees	now,	with	gusts
 pushing	it	to	eleven.
Copy,
Are	you	at	pilot-release?
Affirmative,
I	can	launch	anytime.
If	it	tips,	can	you	launch	before	it	falls	completely	over?
Uh,
Yes,	ma’am.	I’d	take
 manual	control	and	go	full	throttle.	Then	I’d	nose	up	and	return	to
 preprogrammed	ascent.
Copy	that,
Everyone	home	in	on	Martinez’s	suit.	That’ll	get
 you	to	the	MAV	airlock.	Get	in	and	prep	for	launch.
What	about	you,	Commander?
I’m	searching	a	little	more.	Get	moving.	And	Martinez,	if	you	start	to	tip,
 launch.
You	really	think	I’ll	leave	you	behind?
I	just	ordered	you	to,
You	three,	get	to	the	ship.
Johanssen,
would	the	rover	IR	camera	do	any	good?
Negative,
IR	can’t	get	through	sand	any	better	than
 visible	light.
What’s	she	thinking?
She’s	a
 geologist.	She	knows	IR	can’t	get	through	a	sandstorm.
She	is	grasping,
We	must	get	to	the
 couches.	Please	hurry.
I	don’t	feel	good	about	this,
Neither	do	I,	Doctor,
but	the	commander
 has	given	us	orders.	Insubordination	will	not	help.
Commander,
we’re	tilting	11.6	degrees.	One	good	gust
 and	we’re	tipping.
What	about	the	proximity	radar?
Could	it	detect	Watney’s
 suit?
No	way,
It’s	made	to	see	Hermes	in	orbit,	not	the	metal	in	a
 single	space	suit.
Give	it	a	try,
Commander,
I	know	you	don’t	want	to	hear	this,	but	Watn—…Mark’s	dead.
Copy,
Martinez,	try	the	radar.
Roger,
What’s	the	matter	with	you?
My	friend	just	died,
And	I	don’t	want	my	commander	to
 die,	too.
Negative	contact	on	proximity	radar.
Nothing?
It	can	barely	see	the	Hab,
The	sandstorm’s	fucking	things	up.
 Even	if	it	wasn’t,	there’s	not	enough	metal	in—	Shit!
Strap	in!
We’re	tipping!
Thirteen	degrees,
We	are	far	past	balance.	We	will	not	rock
 back.
We	can’t	leave	her!
Let	it	tip,	we’ll	fix	it!
Thirty-two	metric	tons	including	fuel,
If	it	hits	the	ground,	it’ll	do	structural	damage	to	the	tanks,	frame,
 and	probably	the	second-stage	engine.	We’d	never	be	able	to	fix	it.
You	can’t	abandon	her!
You	can’t.
I’ve	got	one	trick.	If	that	doesn’t	work,	I’m	following	her	orders.
You	are	firing	the	OMS?
I	don’t	know	if	it’ll	work.	We’re	not	tipping	very	fast,
I
 think	it’s	slowing	down…
The	aerodynamic	caps	will	have	automatically	ejected,
It	will
 be	a	bumpy	ascent	with	three	holes	in	the	side	of	the	ship.
Thanks	for	the	tip,
C’mon…“
 “Still	thirteen	degrees,
What’s	going	on	up	there?
You	went	quiet.	Respond.
Stand	by,
Twelve	point	nine	degrees,
It	is	working,
For	now,
I	don’t	know	if	maneuvering	fuel	will	last.
Twelve	point	eight	now,
OMS	fuel	at	sixty	percent,
How	much	do	you	need	to	dock	with
 Hermes?
Ten	percent	if	I	don’t	fuck	anything	up,
Twelve	point	six,
We’re	tipping	back.
Or	the	wind	died	down	a	little,
Fuel	at	forty-five	percent.
There	is	danger	of	damage	to	the	vents,
The	OMS	was
 not	made	for	prolonged	thrusts.
I	know,
I	can	dock	without	nose	vents	if	I	have	to.
Almost	there…,
Okay	we’re	under	12.3.
OMS	cutoff,
Still	tipping	back,
11.6…11.5…holding	at	11.5.
OMS	Fuel	at	twenty-two	percent,
Yeah,	I	see	that,
It’ll	be	enough.
Commander,
you	need	to	get	to	the	ship	now.
Agreed,
He’s	gone,	ma’am.	Watney’s	gone.
Copy,
On	my	way.
Still	at	pilot-release,
Ready	for	launch.
I’m	sorry,	Commander,
You	need	to	verbally—
Launch,
Yes,	ma’am,
Main	engine	shutdown,
Ascent	time:	eight	minutes,
 fourteen	seconds.	On	course	for	Hermes	intercept.
Is	it	here	yet?
Almost,
Ninety-eight	percent.
You’re	looking	cheerful,	Martinez,
My	son	turned	three	yesterday.
Should	be	some	pics	of	the
 party.	How	about	you?
Nothing	special,
Peer	reviews	of	a	paper	I	wrote	a	few	years
 back.
Complete,
All	the	personal	e-mails	are	dispatched	to	your
 laptops.	Also	there’s	a	telemetry	update	for	Vogel	and	a	system	update	for	me.
 Huh…there’s	a	voice	message	addressed	to	the	whole	crew.
Play	it.
Hermes,	this	is	Mitch	Henderson,
Henderson?
Talking	directly	to	us	without
 CAPCOM?
I	have	some	news,
There’s	no	subtle	way	to	put
 this:	Mark	Watney’s	still	alive.
Wha—
I	know	that’s	a	surprise,
And	I	know	you’ll	have	a	lot	of
 questions.	We’re	going	to	answer	those	questions.	But	for	now	I’ll	just	give	you
 the	basics.
 “He’s	alive	and	healthy.	We	found	out	two	months	ago	and	decided	not	to	tell
you;	we	even	censored	personal	messages.	I	was	strongly	against	all	that.	We’re
 telling	you	now	because	we	finally	have	communication	with	him	and	a	viable
 rescue	plan.	It	boils	down	to	Ares	4	picking	him	up	with	a	modified	MDV.
 “We’ll	get	you	a	full	write-up	of	what	happened,	but	it’s	definitely	not	your
 fault.	Mark	stresses	that	every	time	it	comes	up.	It	was	just	bad	luck.
 “Take	some	time	to	absorb	this.	Your	science	schedules	are	cleared	for
 tomorrow.	Send	all	the	questions	you	want	and	we’ll	answer	them.	Henderson
 out.
He…He’s	alive?
He	lives.
Holy	shit,
Holy	shit!	Commander!	He’s	alive!
I	left	him	behind,
But,
we	all	left	togeth—
You	followed	orders,
I	left	him	behind.	In	a	barren,
 unreachable,	godforsaken	wasteland.
colonized
You	abandoned	me	on	Mars,	you
 assholes!
Project	Ares	3;	Hab	Canvas;	Sheet	AL102.
Go	fuck	themselves.
Anything,	oh	God,	ANYTHING	but	Disco
Tuesday.
This	is	obviously	a	clog.	How	about	I	take	it	apart	and	check	the	internal
 tubing?
No.	You’ll	fuck	it	up	and	die.
I	took	it	apart,	found	the	problem,	and	fixed	it.
Dick.
Snowblowers	are	expensive,
You’re	free.
Don’t	be	such	a	wuss,
You	fucking	kidding	me?
hamster-feeder.
safety
hurl	my	body	at	the	wall
all-terrain
Yay!
Problem	solved.
A-okay.
A-okay
detachment
shot	me	out	like	a	cannon
IT’S	SOL	122,
We	have	until	Sol	584	to	get	a	probe	to	Mars.	That’s
 four	hundred	and	sixty-two	sols,	which	is	four	hundred	and	seventy-five	days.
The	positions	of	Earth	and	Mars	aren’t	ideal.	The
trip	will	take	four	hundred	and	fourteen	days.	Mounting	the	probe	to	the	booster
 and	dealing	with	inspections	will	take	thirteen	days.	That	leaves	us	with	just
 forty-eight	days	to	make	this	probe.
Jesus,
It’s	a	whole	new	ball	game,
Our	focus	is	food.	Anything
 else	is	a	luxury.	We	don’t	have	time	to	make	a	powered-descent	lander.	It’ll	have
 to	be	a	tumbler.	So	we	can’t	put	anything	delicate	inside.	Say	good-bye	to	all	the
 other	crap	we’d	planned	to	send.
Where’s	the	booster	coming	from?
The	EagleEye	3	Saturn	probe,
It	was	scheduled	to	launch	next
 month.	NASA	put	it	on	hold	so	we	can	have	the	booster.
I	bet	the	EagleEye	team	was	pissed	about	that,
I’m	sure	they	were,
But	it’s	the	only	booster	we	have	that’s	big
 enough.	Which	brings	me	to	my	next	point:	We	only	get	one	shot	at	this.	If	we
 fail,	Mark	Watney	dies.
We	do	have	some	things	going	for	us,
We	have	some	of	the
 parts	built	for	the	Ares	4	presupply	missions.	We	can	steal	from	them,	and	that’ll
 save	us	some	time.	Also,	we’re	sending	food,	which	is	pretty	robust.	Even	if
 there’s	a	reentry	problem	and	the	probe	impacts	at	high	velocity,	food	is	still
 food.
 “And	we	don’t	need	a	precision	landing.	Watney	can	travel	hundreds	of
 kilometers	if	necessary.	We	just	need	to	land	close	enough	for	him	to	reach	it.
 This	ends	up	being	a	standard	tumble-land	presupply.	All	we	have	to	do	is	make
 it	quickly.	So	let’s	get	to	it.
Hmm,
I	know	you’re	all	busy,
Thank	you	for	making	time	for	this
 meeting.	I	need	status	on	Project	Iris	from	all	departments.	Venkat,	let’s	start
 with	you.
The	mission	team’s	ready,
There	was	a	minor	turf	war	between	the	Ares	3	and	Ares	4	presupply
 control	teams.	The	Ares	3	guys	said	they	should	run	it,	because	while	Watney’s
 on	Mars,	Ares	3	is	still	in	progress.	The	Ares	4	team	points	out	it’s	their	coopted
 probe	in	the	first	place.	I	ended	up	going	with	Ares	3.
Did	that	upset	Ares	4?
Yes,	but	they’ll	get	over	it.	They	have	thirteen	other	presupply	missions
 coming	up.	They	won’t	have	time	to	be	pissy.
Mitch,
what	about	the	launch?
We’ve	got	a	control	room	ready,
I’ll	oversee	the	launch,	then	hand	cruise	and	landing	over	to	Venkat’s
 guys.
Media?
I’m	giving	daily	updates	to	the	press,
Everyone	knows	Watney’s	fucked	if	this	doesn’t	work.	The	public	hasn’t	been
 this	engaged	in	ship	construction	since	Apollo	11.	CNN’s	The	Watney	Report
 has	been	the	number	one	show	in	its	time	slot	for	the	past	two	weeks.
The	attention	is	good,
It’ll	help	get	us	emergency	funding	from
 Congress.
Maurice,	thanks
 for	flying	out	on	short	notice.
For	those	who	don’t	know
him,	this	is	Maurice	Stein	from	Cape	Canaveral.	He	was	the	scheduled	pad
 leader	for	EagleEye	3,	so	he	inherited	the	role	for	Iris.	Sorry	for	the	bait	and
 switch,	Maurice.
No	problem,
Glad	I	can	help	out.
How’s	the
 booster?
It’s	all	right	for	now,
But	it’s	not	ideal.	EagleEye	3	was	set
 to	launch.	Boosters	aren’t	designed	to	stand	upright	and	bear	the	stress	of	gravity
 for	long	periods.	We’re	adding	external	supports	that	we’ll	remove	before
 launch.	It’s	easier	than	disassembly.	Also	the	fuel	is	corrosive	to	the	internal
 tanks,	so	we	had	to	drain	it.	In	the	meantime,	we’re	performing	inspections	on
 all	systems	every	three	days.
Good,	thank	you,
Bruce,	thank	you	for	flying	out,	too.	How’s	the	weather	in	California	these
 days?
I	wouldn’t	know,
I	rarely	see	the	outdoors.
Time	for	the	big	question,	Bruce.	How’s	Iris
 coming	along?
We’re	behind,
We’re	going	as
 fast	as	we	can,	but	it’s	just	not	fast	enough.
I	can	find	money	for	overtime,
We’re	already	working	around	the	clock.
How	far	behind	are	we	talking	about?
We’ve	been	at	it	twenty-nine	days;	so	we
 only	have	nineteen	left.	After	that,	the	Pad	needs	thirteen	days	to	mount	it	on	the
 booster.	We’re	at	least	two	weeks	behind.
Is	that	as	far	behind	as	you’re	going	to	get?
Or	will	you	slip	more?
If	we	don’t	have	any	more	problems,	it’ll	be	two	weeks	late.
 But	we	always	have	problems.
Give	me	a	number,
Fifteen	days,
If	we	had	another	fifteen	days,	I’m	sure	we
could	get	it	done	in	time.
All	right,
Let’s	create	fifteen	days.
Dr.	Keller,
 can	we	reduce	Watney’s	food	intake	to	make	the	rations	last	longer?
Sorry,	but	no,
He’s	already	at	a	minimal	calorie	count.	In	fact,
 considering	the	amount	of	physical	labor	he	does,	he’s	eating	far	less	than	he
 should.	And	it’s	only	going	to	get	worse.	Soon	his	entire	diet	will	be	potatoes
 and	vitamin	supplements.	He’s	been	saving	protein-rich	rations	for	later	use,	but
 he’ll	still	be	malnourished.
Once	he	runs	out	of	food,	how	long	until	he	starves	to	death?
Presuming	an	ample	water	supply,	he	might	last	three	weeks.	Shorter	than	a
 typical	hunger	strike,	but	remember	he’ll	be	malnourished	and	thin	to	begin
 with.
Remember,	Iris	is	a	tumbler;
 he	might	have	to	drive	a	few	days	to	get	it.	And	I’m	guessing	it’s	hard	to	control
 a	rover	when	you’re	literally	starving	to	death.
He’s	right,
Within	four	days	of	running	out	of	food,
 he’ll	barely	be	able	to	stand	up,	let	alone	control	a	rover.	Plus,	his	mental
 faculties	will	rapidly	decline.	He’d	have	a	hard	time	even	staying	awake.
So	the	landing	date’s	firm,
Maurice,	can	you	get	Iris	on	the
 booster	in	less	than	thirteen	days?
Well…it	only	takes
 three	days	to	actually	mount	it.	The	following	ten	are	for	testing	and
 inspections.
How	much	can	you	reduce	those?
With	enough	overtime,	I	could	get	the	mounting	down	to	two	days.	That
 includes	transport	from	Pasadena	to	Cape	Canaveral.	But	the	inspections	can’t
 be	shortened.	They’re	time-based.	We	do	checks	and	rechecks	with	set	intervals
 between	them	to	see	if	something	deforms	or	warps.	If	you	shorten	the	intervals,
 you	invalidate	the	inspections.
How	often	do	those	inspections	reveal	a	problem?
Uh,
Are	you	suggesting	we	don’t	do	the	inspections?
No,
Right	now	I’m	asking	how	often	they	reveal	a	problem.
About	one	in	twenty	launches.
And	how	often	is	the	problem	they	find	something
 that	would	have	caused	a	mission	failure?
I’m,	uh,	not	sure.	Maybe	half	the	time?
So	if	we	skip	inspections	and	testing,	we	have	a
 one	in	forty	chance	of	mission	failure?
That’s	two	point	five	percent,
Normally,	that’s
 grounds	for	a	countdown	halt.	We	can’t	take	a	chance	like	that.
‘Normally’	was	a	long	time	ago,
Ninety-seven	point	five
 percent	is	better	than	zero.	Can	anyone	think	of	a	safer	way	to	get	more	time?
All	right,	then,
Speeding	up	the
 mounting	process	and	skipping	inspections	buys	us	eleven	days.	If	Bruce	can
 pull	a	rabbit	out	of	a	hat	and	get	done	sooner,	Maurice	can	do	some	inspections.
What	about	the	other	four	days?
I’m	sure	Watney	can	stretch	the	food	to	last	four	extra	days,	malnutrition
 notwithstanding,
I—
I	can’t	recommend—
Hang	on,
Everyone,	I	understand	your	positions.	We	have	procedures.	Skipping	those
 procedures	means	risk.	Risk	means	trouble	for	your	department.	But	now	isn’t
 the	time	to	cover	our	asses.	We	have	to	take	risks	or	Mark	Watney	dies.
Make	the	food	last	another	four	days.
RICH,
Rich,
Yeah?
What	the	hell	are	you	doing?
Just	a	little	side	project.	Something	I	wanted	to	check	up	on.
Well…that’s	fine,	I	guess,
but	you	need	to	do	your	assigned
 work	first.	I	asked	for	those	satellite	adjustments	two	weeks	ago	and	you	still
 haven’t	done	them.
I	need	some	supercomputer	time,
You	need	supercomputer	time	to	calculate	routine	satellite	adjustments?
No,	it’s	for	this	other	thing	I’m	working	on,
Rich,	seriously.	You	have	to	do	your	job.
Would	now	be	a	good	time	for	a	vacation?
You	know	what,	Rich?	I	think	now	would	be	an	ideal	time	for
 you	to	take	a	vacation.
Great!
I’ll	start	right	now.
Sure,
Go	on	home.	Get	some	rest.
Oh,	I’m	not	going	home,
Okay,	whatever.	About	those	satellite	orbits…?
I’m	on	vacation,
bonus	Mars	time
clean	room,
The	launch	preparations
 are	complete,
Iris	is	ready	to	go.	The	scheduled	launch	is	9:14	a.m.
 “Once	launched,	it	will	stay	in	orbit	for	at	least	three	hours.	During	that	time,
 Mission	Control	will	gather	exact	telemetry	in	preparation	for	the	trans-Mars
 injection	burn.	When	that’s	complete,	the	mission	will	be	handed	off	to	the	Ares
 3	presupply	team,	who	will	monitor	its	progress	over	the	following	months.	It
 will	take	four	hundred	and	fourteen	days	to	reach	Mars.
About	the	payload,
I	hear	there’s	more	than	just	food?
That’s	true.
We	allocated	one	hundred	grams	for	luxury
 items.	There	are	some	handwritten	letters	from	Mark’s	family,	a	note	from	the
 President,	and	a	USB	drive	filled	with	music	from	all	ages.
Any	disco?
No	disco,
If	this	launch	fails,	is	there	any	recourse	for
 Watney?
There	are	risks	to	any	launch,
but
we	don’t	anticipate	problems.	The	weather	at	the	Cape	is	clear	with	warm
 temperatures.	Conditions	couldn’t	be	better.
Is	there	any	spending	limit	to	this	rescue	operation?
Some	people	are	beginning	to	ask	how	much	is	too	much.
It’s	not	about	the	bottom	line,
It’s
 about	a	human	life	in	immediate	danger.	But	if	you	want	to	look	at	it	financially,
 consider	the	value	of	Mark	Watney’s	extended	mission.	His	prolonged	mission
 and	fight	for	survival	are	giving	us	more	knowledge	about	Mars	than	the	rest	of
 the	Ares	program	combined.
DO	YOU	believe	in	God,	Venkat?
Sure,	lots	of	’em,
I’m	Hindu.
Ask	’em	all	for	help	with	this	launch.
Will	do.
This	is	the
 flight	director.	Begin	launch	status	check.
Roger	that,	Houston
CLCDR	checking	all	stations	are	manned	and	systems	ready,
Give	me	a	go/no-go	for	launch.	Talker?
Go
Timer.
Go,
QAM1.
Go.
QAM2.
Go.
QAM3.
Go.
FSC.
Go.
Prop	One.
Go.
Prop	Two.
Go.
PTO.
Go.
ACC.
Go.
LWO.
Go.
AFLC.
Go.
Guidance.
Go.
PTC.
Go.
Launch	Vehicle	Director.
Go.
Houston,	this	is	Launch	Control,	we	are	go	for	launch.
Roger,
This	is	Flight,	we	are	go	for
 launch	on	schedule.
Roger	that,	Houston,
Launch	on	schedule.
Fifteen,
fourteen…thirteen…twelve…eleven…
…ten…nine…eight…seven…
…six…five…four…
Ignition	sequence	start.
…three…two…one…
…and	liftoff	of	the	Iris	supply	probe,
Trim?
Trim’s	good,	Flight
Course?
On	course.
Altitude	one	thousand	meters,
We’ve	reached	safe-abort,
Altitude	fifteen	hundred	meters.
Pitch	and	roll	maneuver	commencing.
Getting	a	little	shimmy,	Flight.
Say	again?
A	slight	shimmy.	Onboard	guidance	is	handling	it.
Keep	an	eye	on	it,
Altitude	twenty-five	hundred	meters.
Pitch	and	roll	complete,	twenty-two	seconds	till	staging.
liquefaction,
SHIMMY’S	GETTING	violent,
How	violent?
More	than	we	like,
But	the	accelerometers	caught	it	and	calculated
 the	new	center	of	mass.	The	guidance	computer	is	adjusting	the	engines’	thrusts
 to	counteract.	We’re	still	good.
Keep	me	posted,
Thirteen	seconds	till	staging.
WOAH!
Flight,	we’re	getting	a	large
 precession!
What?
Force	on	Iris	is	at	seven	g’s,
Intermittent	signal	loss,
Ascent,	what’s	happening	here?
All	hell	broke	loose.	It’s	spinning	on	the	long	axis	with	a	seventeen-degree
 precession.
How	bad?
At	least	five	rp’s,	and	falling	off	course.
Can	you	get	it	to	orbit?
I	can’t	talk	to	it	at	all;	signal	failures	left	and	right.
Comm!
Workin’	on	it,	Flight,
There’s	a	problem	with	the
 onboard	system.
Getting	some	major	g’s	inside,	Flight.
Ground	telemetry	shows	it	two	hundred	meters	low	of	target	path.
We’ve	lost	readings	on	the	probe,	Flight.
Entirely	lost	the	probe?
Affirm,	Flight.	Intermittent	signal	from	the	ship,	but	no	probe.
Shit,
It	shook	loose	in	the	aeroshell.
It’s	dreideling,	Flight.
Can	it	limp	to	orbit?
Even	super-low	EO?	We	might	be	able	to
 —
Loss	of	signal,	Flight.
LOS	here,	too.
Same	here.
Reestablish?
No	luck,
Ground?
GC
Vehicle	had	already	left	visual	range.
SatCon?
No	satellite	acquisition	of	signal.
LOS.
Flight,
US	destroyer	Stockton	reports	debris
 falling	from	the	sky.	Source	matches	last	known	location	of	Iris.
Roger,
GC,
 Flight.	Lock	the	doors.
conceal	state	secrets.
Ridiculous,
Come,
Good	evening,	sir,
Tao,	welcome	back.
Thank	you,	sir.	It’s	good	to	be	back	in	Beijing.
How	were	things	at	Jiuquan?
Not	too	cold,	I	hope?	I’ll
 never	understand	why	our	launch	complex	is	in	the	middle	of	the	Gobi	Desert.
It	was	cold,	yet	manageable,
And	how	are	launch	preparations	coming	along?
I	am	happy	to	report	they	are	all	on	schedule.
Excellent.
Something	else,	Tao?
Mmm,
Of	course,	you’ve	heard	about	the	Iris	probe?
Yes,	I	did,
Terrible	situation.	That	poor	man’s	going	to
 starve.
Possibly,
Possibly	not.
What	are	you	saying?
It’s	the	Taiyang	Shen’s	booster,	sir.	Our	engineers	have	run	the	numbers,	and
 it	has	enough	fuel	for	a	Mars	injection	orbit.	It	could	get	there	in	four	hundred
 and	nineteen	days.
Are	you	kidding?
Have	you	ever	known	me	to	‘kid,’	sir?
We	can	really	send
 the	Taiyang	Shen	to	Mars?
No,	sir,
It’s	far	too	heavy.	The	massive	heat	shielding	makes
 it	the	heaviest	unmanned	probe	we’ve	ever	built.	That’s	why	the	booster	had	to
 be	so	powerful.	But	a	lighter	payload	could	be	sent	all	the	way	to	Mars.
How	much	mass	could	we	send?
Nine	hundred	and	forty-one	kilograms,	sir.
Hmm,
I	bet	NASA	could	work	with	that	limitation.	Why
 haven’t	they	approached	us?
Because	they	don’t	know,
All	our	booster	technology	is
classified	information.	The	Ministry	of	State	Security	even	spreads
 disinformation	about	our	capabilities.	This	is	for	obvious	reasons.
So	they	don’t	know	we	can	help	them,
If	we	decide	not	to
 help,	no	one	will	know	we	could	have.
Correct,	sir.
For	the	sake	of	argument,	let’s	say	we	decided	to	help.	What	then?
Time	would	be	the	enemy,	sir,
Based	on	travel
 duration	and	the	supplies	their	astronaut	has	remaining,	any	such	probe	would
 have	to	be	launched	within	a	month.	Even	then	he	would	starve	a	little.
That’s	right	around	when	we	planned	to	launch	Taiyang	Shen.
Yes,	sir.	But	it	took	them	two	months	to	build	Iris,	and	it	was	so	rushed	it
 failed.
That’s	their	problem,
Our	end	would	be	providing	the
 booster.	We’d	launch	from	Jiuquan;	we	can’t	ship	an	eight-hundred-ton	rocket	to
 Florida.
Any	agreement	would	hinge	on	the	Americans	reimbursing	us	for	the
 booster,
and	the	State	Council	would	likely	want	political	favors
 from	the	US	government.
Reimbursement	would	be	pointless,
This	was	an	expensive
 project,	and	the	State	Council	grumbled	about	it	all	along.	If	they	had	a	bulk
 payout	for	its	value,	they’d	just	keep	it.	We’d	never	get	to	build	another	one.
And	the	American	people	may	be
 sentimental,	but	their	government	is	not.	The	US	State	Department	won’t	trade
 anything	major	for	one	man’s	life.
So	it’s	hopeless?
Not	hopeless,
Just	hard.	If	this	becomes	a	negotiation
 by	diplomats,	it	will	never	be	resolved.	We	need	to	keep	this	among	scientists.
 Space	agency	to	space	agency.	I’ll	get	a	translator	and	call	NASA’s
 administrator.	We’ll	work	out	an	agreement,	then	present	it	to	our	governments
 as	a	fait	accompli.
But	what	can	they	do	for	us?
We’d	be	giving	up	a	booster
 and	effectively	canceling	Taiyang	Shen.
They’ll	give	us	something	we	can’t	get	without	them.
And	that	is?
They’ll	put	a	Chinese	astronaut	on	Mars.
Of	course.
The	Ares	5	crew	hasn’t	even	been
 selected	yet.	We’ll	insist	on	a	crewman.	One	we	get	to	pick	and	train.	NASA	and
 the	US	State	Department	would	surely	accept	that.	But	will	our	State	Council?
Publicly	rescue	the	Americans?	Put	a	Chinese
 astronaut	on	Mars?	Have	the	world	see	China	as	equal	to	the	US	in	space?	The
 State	Council	would	sell	their	own	mothers	for	that.
Yes.
Botanist	Cool.
OKAY,	HERE	we	are	again,
You’ve
 all	heard	about	the	Taiyang	Shen,	so	you	know	our	friends	in	China	have	given
 us	one	more	chance.	But	this	time,	it’s	going	to	be	harder.
“Taiyang	Shen	will	be	ready	to	launch	in	twenty-eight	days.	If	it	launches	on
 time,	our	payload	will	get	to	Mars	on	Sol	624,	six	weeks	after	Watney’s
 expected	to	run	out	of	food.	NASA’s	already	working	on	ways	to	stretch	his
 supply.
 “We	made	history	when	we	finished	Iris	in	sixty-three	days.	Now	we	have	to
 do	it	in	twenty-eight.
Folks,
this	is	going	to	be	the	most	‘ghetto’	spacecraft	ever	built.
 There’s	only	one	way	to	finish	that	fast:	no	landing	system.
Sorry,	what?
You	heard	me.	No	landing	system.	We’ll	need	guidance	for
 in-flight	course	adjustments.	But	once	it	gets	to	Mars,	it’s	going	to	crash.
That’s	crazy!
It’ll	be	going	an	insane	velocity	when	it	hits!
Yep,
With	ideal	atmospheric	drag,	it’ll	impact	at	three	hundred
 meters	per	second.
What	good	will	a	pulverized	probe	do	Watney?
As	long	as	the	food	doesn’t	burn	up	on	the	way	in,	Watney	can	eat	it,
I
 want	two	teams,
Team	One	will	make	the	outer	shell,	guidance	system,	and	thrusters.	All	we
 need	is	for	it	to	get	to	Mars.	I	want	the	safest	possible	system.	Aerosol	propellant
 would	be	best.	High-gain	radio	so	we	can	talk	to	it,	and	standard	satellite
 navigational	software.
 “Team	Two	will	deal	with	the	payload.	They	need	to	find	a	way	to	contain	the
 food	during	impact.	If	protein	bars	hit	sand	at	three	hundred	meters	per	second,
 they’ll	make	protein-scented	sand.	We	need	them	edible	after	impact.
 “We	can	weigh	nine	hundred	and	forty-one	kilograms.	At	least	three	hundred
 of	that	needs	to	be	food.	Get	crackin’.
UH,	DR.	KAPOOR?
Do	you
 have	a	minute?
You	are…?
Rich,	Rich	Purnell,
From	astrodynamics.
Nice	to	meet	you,
What	can	I	do	for	you,	Rich?
I	came	up	with	something	a	while	ago.	Spent	a	lot	of	time	on	it.
Lemme	find	the	summary.…
Here	we	go!
No,	this	isn’t	it.
Rich,
Maybe	you	should	just	tell	me	what	this	is	about?
But	I	had	such	a	cool
 summary.…
A	summary	for	what?
How	to	save	Watney.
That’s	already	in	progress,
It’s	a	last-ditch	effort,	but—
The	Taiyang	Shen?
That	won’t	work.	You	can’t	make	a	Mars
 probe	in	a	month.
We’re	sure	as	hell	going	to	try,
Oh,	sorry,	am	I	being	difficult?
I’m	not	good	with	people.
 Sometimes	I’m	difficult.	I	wish	people	would	just	tell	me.	Anyway,	the	Taiyang
 Shen	is	critical.	In	fact,	my	idea	won’t	work	without	it.	But	a	Mars	probe?	Pfft.
 C’mon.
All	right,
What’s	your	idea?
Here	it	is!
Are	you	sure	about	this?
Absolutely!
Have	you	told	anyone	else?
Who	would	I	tell?
I	don’t	know,
Friends?
I	don’t	have	any	of	those.
Okay,	keep	it	under	your	hat.
I	don’t	wear	a	hat.
It’s	just	an	expression.
Really?
It’s	a	stupid	expression.
Rich,	you’re	being	difficult.
Ah.	Thanks.
Y,
WHAT	THE	fuck	is	‘Project	Elrond’?
I	had	to	make	something	up,
So	you	came	up	with	‘Elrond’?
Because	it’s	a	secret	meeting?
The	e-mail	said	I	couldn’t
 even	tell	my	assistant.
I’ll	explain	everything	once	Teddy	arrives.
Why	does	‘Elrond’	mean	‘secret	meeting’?
Are	we	going	to	make	a	momentous	decision?
Exactly,
How	did	you	know	that?
Elrond,
The	Council	of	Elrond.	From	Lord	of	the	Rings.	It’s
 the	meeting	where	they	decide	to	destroy	the	One	Ring.
Jesus,
None	of	you	got	laid	in	high	school,	did	you?
Good	morning,
Anyone	know	what	this	meeting’s
 about?
Wait,
Teddy	doesn’t	even	know?
One	of	our	astrodynamicists,	Rich	Purnell,	has
 found	a	way	to	get	Hermes	back	to	Mars.	The	course	he	came	up	with	would
 give	Hermes	a	Mars	flyby	on	Sol	549.
You	shittin’	us?
Sol	549?	How’s	that	even	possible?
Even	Iris	wouldn’t	have
 landed	till	Sol	588.
Iris	is	a	point-thrust	craft,
Hermes	has	a	constant-thrust	ion
 engine.	It’s	always	accelerating.	Also,	Hermes	has	a	lot	of	velocity	right	now.
 On	their	current	Earth-intercept	course,	they	have	to	decelerate	for	the	next
 month	just	to	slow	down	to	Earth’s	speed.
Wow…549.	That’s	thirty-five	sols	before
 Watney	runs	out	of	food.	That	would	solve	everything.
Run	us	through	it,	Venkat.	What	would	it	entail?
Well,
if	they	did	this	‘Rich	Purnell	Maneuver,’	they’d	start
 accelerating	right	away,	to	preserve	their	velocity	and	gain	even	more.	They
 wouldn’t	intercept	Earth	at	all,	but	would	come	close	enough	to	use	a	gravity
 assist	to	adjust	course.	Around	that	time,	they’d	pick	up	a	resupply	probe	with
 provisions	for	the	extended	trip.
 “After	that,	they’d	be	on	an	accelerating	orbit	toward	Mars,	arriving	on	Sol
 549.	Like	I	said,	it’s	a	Mary	flyby.	This	isn’t	anything	like	a	normal	Ares
 mission.	They’ll	be	going	too	fast	to	fall	into	orbit.	The	rest	of	the	maneuver
 takes	them	back	to	Earth.	They’d	be	home	two	hundred	and	eleven	days	after	the
 flyby.
What	good	is	a	flyby?
They	don’t	have	any	way	to	get
 Watney	off	the	surface.
Yeah…,
Now	for	the	unpleasant	part:	Watney	would	have	to
 get	to	the	Ares	4	MAV.
Schiaparelli!?
That’s	thirty-two	hundred	kilometers	away!
Three	thousand,	two	hundred,	and	thirty-five	kilometers	to	be	exact,
It’s	not	out	of	the	question.	He	drove	to	Pathfinder’s	landing	site	and
 back.	That’s	over	fifteen	hundred	kilometers.
That	was	over	flat,	desert	terrain,
but	the	trip	to
 Schiaparelli—
Suffice	it	to	say,
it	would	be	very	difficult	and
 dangerous.	But	we	have	a	lot	of	clever	scientists	to	help	him	trick	out	the	rover.
 Also	there	would	be	MAV	modifications.
What’s	wrong	with	the	MAV?
It’s	designed	to	get	to	low	Mars	orbit,
But	Hermes
 would	be	on	a	flyby,	so	the	MAV	would	have	to	escape	Mars	gravity	entirely	to
 intercept.
How?
It’d	have	to	lose	weight…a	lot	of	weight.	I	can	get	rooms	full	of	people
 working	on	these	problems,	if	we	decide	to	do	this.
Earlier,
you	mentioned	a	supply	probe	for	Hermes.	We	have
 that	capability?
Yes,	with	the	Taiyang	Shen,
We’d	shoot	for	a	near-Earth
 rendezvous.	It’s	a	lot	easier	than	getting	a	probe	to	Mars,	that’s	for	sure.
I	see,
So	we	have	two	options	on	the	table:	Send	Watney
 enough	food	to	last	until	Ares	4,	or	send	Hermes	back	to	get	him	right	now.	Both
 plans	require	the	Taiyang	Shen,	so	we	can	only	do	one.
Yes,
We’ll	have	to	pick	one.
What	about	the	Hermes	crew?
Would
 they	have	a	problem	with	adding…
Five
 hundred	and	thirty-three	days	to	their	mission?
They	wouldn’t	hesitate,
Not	for	a	second.	That’s	why	Venkat
 called	this	meeting.
He	wants	us	to	decide	instead.
That’s	right,
It	should	be	Commander	Lewis’s	call,
Pointless	to	even	ask	her,
We	need	to	make	this	decision;	it’s
 a	matter	of	life	and	death.
She’s	the	mission	commander,
Life-and-death	decisions	are
 her	damn	job.
Easy,	Mitch,
Bullshit,
You	guys	have	done	end	runs	around	the	crew	every
 time	something	goes	wrong.	You	didn’t	tell	them	Watney	was	still	alive;	now
 you’re	not	telling	them	there’s	a	way	to	save	him.
We	already	have	a	way	to	keep	him	alive,
We’re	just
 discussing	another	one.
The	crash-lander?
Does	anyone	think	that’ll	work?	Anyone?
All	right,	Mitch,
You’ve	expressed	your	opinion,	and	we’ve
 heard	it.	Let’s	move	on.
Can	Hermes	function	for	five
 hundred	and	thirty-three	days	beyond	the	scheduled	mission	end?
It	should,
The	crew	may	have	to	fix	things	here	and	there,	but
 they’re	well	trained.	Remember,	Hermes	was	made	to	do	all	five	Ares	missions.
 It’s	only	halfway	through	its	designed	life	span.
It’s	the	most	expensive	thing	ever	built,
We	can’t	make
 another	one.	If	something	went	wrong,	the	crew	would	die,	and	the	Ares
 Program	with	them.
Losing	the	crew	would	be	a	disaster,
But	we	wouldn’t	lose
 Hermes.	We	can	remotely	operate	it.	So	long	as	the	reactor	and	ion	engines
 continued	to	work,	we	could	bring	it	back.
Space	travel	is	dangerous,
We	can’t	make	this	a	discussion
 about	what’s	safest.
I	disagree,
This	is	absolutely	a	discussion	about	what’s	safest.
 And	about	how	many	lives	are	at	stake.	Both	plans	are	risky,	but	resupplying
 Watney	only	risks	one	life	while	the	Rich	Purnell	Maneuver	risks	six.
Consider	degree	of	risk,	Teddy,
Mitch	is	right.	The	crash
lander	is	high-risk.	It	could	miss	Mars,	it	could	reenter	wrong	and	burn	up,	it
 could	crash	too	hard	and	destroy	the	food…We	estimate	a	thirty	percent	chance
 of	success.
A	near-Earth	rendezvous	with	Hermes	is	more	doable?
Much	more	doable,
With	sub-second	transmission
 delays,	we	can	control	the	probe	directly	from	Earth	rather	than	rely	on
 automated	systems.	When	the	time	comes	to	dock,	Major	Martinez	can	pilot	it
 remotely	from	Hermes	with	no	transmission	delay	at	all.	And	Hermes	has	a
human	crew,	able	to	overcome	any	hiccups	that	may	happen.	And	we	don’t	have
 to	do	a	reentry;	the	supplies	don’t	have	to	survive	a	three-hundred-meters-per
second	impact.
So,
we	can	have	a	high	chance	of	killing	one	person,	or	a
 low	chance	of	killing	six	people.	Jeez.	How	do	we	even	make	this	decision?
We	talk	about	it,	then	Teddy	makes	the	decision,
Not	sure
 what	else	we	can	do.
We	could	let	Lewis—
Yeah,	other	than	that,
Question,
What	am	I	even	here	for?	This	seems	like	something
 for	you	nerds	to	discuss.
You	need	to	be	in	the	loop,
We’re	not	deciding	right	now.
 We’ll	need	to	quietly	research	the	details	internally.	Something	might	leak,	and
 you	need	to	be	ready	to	dance	around	questions.
How	long	have	we	got	to	make	a	decision?
The	window	for	starting	the	maneuver	ends	in	thirty-nine	hours.
All	right,
Everyone,	we	discuss	this	only	in	person	or	on	the
 phone;	never	e-mail.	And	don’t	talk	to	anyone	about	this,	other	than	the	people
 here.	The	last	thing	we	need	is	public	opinion	pressing	for	a	risky	cowboy	rescue
 that	may	be	impossible.
dire	situation,
Project	Elrond
It	wasn’t	an	easy	decision,
But	I’ve
 decided	to	go	with	Iris	2.	No	Rich	Purnell	Maneuver.
We’ll	do	all	we	can	to	make	it	work,
If	it’s	not	too	much	to	ask,
what	made	up	your	mind?
It’s	a	matter	of	risk,
Iris	2	only	risks	one	life.	Rich
 Purnell	risks	all	six	of	them.	I	know	Rich	Purnell	is	more	likely	to	work,	but	I
 don’t	think	it’s	six	times	more	likely.
You	coward,
Mitch…,
You	god	damned	coward,
You	just
 want	to	cut	your	losses.	You’re	on	damage	control.	You	don’t	give	a	shit	about
 Watney’s	life.
Of	course	I	do,
And	I’m	sick	of	your	infantile	attitude.	You
 can	throw	all	the	tantrums	you	want,	but	the	rest	of	us	have	to	be	adults.	This
 isn’t	a	TV	show;	the	riskier	solution	isn’t	always	the	best.
Space	is	dangerous,
It’s	what	we	do	here.	If	you	want	to
 play	it	safe	all	the	time,	go	join	an	insurance	company.	And	by	the	way,	it’s	not
 even	your	life	you’re	risking.	The	crew	can	make	up	their	own	minds	about	it.
No,	they	can’t,
They’re	too	emotionally	involved.
 Clearly,	so	are	you.	I’m	not	gambling	five	additional	lives	to	save	one.
 Especially	when	we	might	save	him	without	risking	them	at	all.
Bullshit!
You’re	just
 convincing	yourself	the	crash-lander	will	work	so	you	don’t	have	to	take	a	risk.
 You’re	hanging	him	out	to	dry,	you	chickenshit	son	of	a	bitch!
I’ll	make	sure	he	cools
 off.
Sheesh,
We’re	scientists,	for
Christ’s	sake.	What	the	hell!?
Sorry	about	that,	Annie,
What	can	I	say?
 Sometimes	men	let	testosterone	take	over—
I	was	hoping	he’d	kick	your	ass,
What?
I	know	you	care	about	the	astronauts,	but	he’s	right.	You	are	a	fucking
 coward.	If	you	had	balls,	we	might	be	able	to	save	Watney.
be	psychic
unsere	kinder
our
 children
kinder
Johanssen.	Good	evening,
Oh,	hello,
I	have	the	computer	problem,
I	wonder	if	you	will	help.
Sure,
You	are	in	the	personal	time,
Perhaps	tomorrow	when	you	are
 on	the	duty	is	better?
Now’s	fine,
What’s	wrong?
It	is	a	file.	It	is	an	image,	but	my	computer	cannot	view.
Where’s	the	file?
It	is	on	my	shared	space.	The	name	is	‘kinder.jpg.’
Let’s	take	a	look,
Definitely	a	bad	jpg	header,
Probably	mangled	in	the
download.	Lemme	look	with	a	hex	editor,	see	if	we	got	anything	at	all.…
This	isn’t	a	jpeg.	It’s	a	plain	ASCII	text	file.
 Looks	like…well,	I	don’t	know	what	it	is.	Looks	like	a	bunch	of	math
 formulae.
Does	any	of	this	make	sense	to	you?
Ja,
It	is	a	course	maneuver	for
 Hermes.	It	says	the	name	is	‘Rich	Purnell	Maneuver.’
What’s	that?
I	have	not	heard	of	this	maneuver.
It	is
 complicated…very	complicated.…
Sol	549!?
Mein	Gott!
the	Rec.
…and	then	mission	would	conclude	with	Earth	intercept	two	hundred	and
 eleven	days	later,
Thank	you,	Vogel,
Would	this	really	work?
Ja.
I	ran	the	numbers.	They	all	check	out.	It	is	brilliant
 course.	Amazing.
How	would	he	get	off	Mars?
There	was	more	in	the	message,
We’d
 have	to	pick	up	a	supply	near	Earth,	and	he’d	have	to	get	to	Ares	4’s	MAV.
Why	all	the	cloak	and	dagger?
According	to	the	message,
NASA	rejected	the	idea.
 They’d	rather	take	a	big	risk	on	Watney	than	a	small	risk	on	all	of	us.	Whoever
 snuck	it	into	Vogel’s	e-mail	obviously	disagreed.
So,
we’re	talking	about	going	directly	against	NASA’s
 decision?
Yes,
that’s	exactly	what	we’re	talking	about.	If	we	go
 through	with	the	maneuver,	they’ll	have	to	send	the	supply	ship	or	we’ll	die.	We
 have	the	opportunity	to	force	their	hand.
Are	we	going	to	do	it?
I	won’t	lie,
I’d	sure	as	hell	like	to.	But	this	isn’t	a	normal
 decision.	This	is	something	NASA	expressly	rejected.	We’re	talking	about
 mutiny.	And	that’s	not	a	word	I	throw	around	lightly.
We’ll	only	do	it	if	we	all	agree.
 And	before	you	answer,	consider	the	consequences.	If	we	mess	up	the	supply
 rendezvous,	we	die.	If	we	mess	up	the	Earth	gravity	assist,	we	die.
 “If	we	do	everything	perfectly,	we	add	five	hundred	and	thirty-three	days	to
 our	mission.	Five	hundred	and	thirty-three	days	of	unplanned	space	travel	where
 anything	could	go	wrong.	Maintenance	will	be	a	hassle.	Something	might	break
 that	we	can’t	fix.	If	it’s	life-critical,	we	die.
Sign	me	up!
Easy,	cowboy,
You	and	I	are	military.	There’s	a	good	chance
 we’d	be	court-martialed	when	we	got	home.	As	for	the	rest	of	you,	I	guarantee
 they’ll	never	send	you	up	again.
If	we	do	this,
it	would	be	over	one	thousand	days	of	space.
 This	is	enough	space	for	a	life.	I	do	not	need	to	return.
Sounds	like	Vogel’s	in,
Me,	too,	obviously.
Let’s	do	it,
If	you	think	it’ll	work,
I	trust	you.
Okay,
If	we	go	for	it,	what’s	involved?
I	plot	the	course	and	execute	it,
What	else?
Remote	override,
It’s	designed	to	get	the	ship	back	if	we
 all	die	or	something.	They	can	take	over	Hermes	from	Mission	Control.
But	we’re	right	here,
We	can	undo	whatever	they	try,	right?
Not	really,
Remote	override	takes	priority	over	any
onboard	controls.	It	assumes	there’s	been	a	disaster	and	the	ship’s	control	panels
 can’t	be	trusted.
Can	you	disable	it?
Hmm…
Hermes	has	four	redundant	flight	computers,
 each	connected	to	three	redundant	comm	systems.	If	any	computer	gets	a	signal
 from	any	comm	system,	Mission	Control	can	take	over.	We	can’t	shut	down	the
 comms;	we’d	lose	telemetry	and	guidance.	We	can’t	shut	down	the	computers;
 we	need	them	to	control	the	ship.	I’ll	have	to	disable	the	remote	override	on	each
 system.…	It’s	part	of	the	OS;	I’ll	have	to	jump	over	the	code.…	Yes.	I	can	do
 it.
You’re	sure?
You	can	turn	it	off?
Shouldn’t	be	hard,
It’s	an	emergency	feature,	not	a	security
 program.	It	isn’t	protected	against	malicious	code.
Malicious	code?
So…you’ll	be	a	hacker?
Yeah.
I	guess	I	will.
All	right,
Looks	like	we	can	do	it.	But	I	don’t	want	peer
 pressure	forcing	anyone	into	it.	We’ll	wait	for	twenty-four	hours.	During	that
 time,	anyone	can	change	their	mind.	Just	talk	to	me	in	private	or	send	me	an	e
mail.	I’ll	call	it	off	and	never	tell	anyone	who	it	was.
Flight,	CAPCOM,
Go,	CAPCOM,
Unscheduled	status	update	from	Hermes.
Roger,
Read	it	out.
I…I	don’t	get	it,	Flight,
No	real	status,	just	a
 single	sentence.
What’s	it	say?
Message	reads:	‘Houston,	be	advised:	Rich	Purnell	is	a	steely-eyed	missile
 man.’
What?
Who	the	hell	is	Rich	Purnell?
Flight,	Telemetry,
Go,	Telemetry,
Hermes	is	off	course.
CAPCOM,	advise	Hermes	they’re	drifting.	Telemetry,	get	a	correction	vector
 ready—
Negative,	Flight,
It’s	not	drift.	They	adjusted
 course.	Instrumentation	uplink	shows	a	deliberate	27.812-	degree	rotation.
What	the	hell?
CAPCOM,	ask	them	what	the	hell.
Roger,	Flight…message	sent.	Minimum	reply	time	three	minutes,	four
 seconds.
Telemetry,	any	chance	this	is	instrumentation	failure?
Negative,	Flight.	We’re	tracking	them	with	SatCon.	Observed	position	is
 consistent	with	the	course	change.
CAPCOM,	read	your	logs	and	see	what	the	previous	shift	did.	See	if	a
 massive	course	change	was	ordered	and	somehow	nobody	told	us.
Roger,	Flight.
Guidance,	Flight,
Go,	Flight,
Work	out	how	long	they	can	stay	on	this	course	before	it’s	irreversible.	At
what	point	will	they	no	longer	be	able	to	intercept	Earth?
Working	on	that	now,	Flight.
And	somebody	find	out	who	the	hell	Rich	Purnell	is!
You	wanted	to	see	me?
Why’d	you	do	it,	Mitch?
Do	what?
You	know	damn	well	what	I’m	talking	about.
Oh,	you	mean	the	Hermes	mutiny?
You	know,
 that’d	make	a	good	movie	title.	The	Hermes	Mutiny.	Got	a	nice	ring	to	it.
We	know	you	did	it,
We	don’t	know	how,	but	we
 know	you	sent	them	the	maneuver.
So	you	don’t	have	any	proof.
No.	Not	yet,	but	we’re	working	on	it.
Really?
Is	that	really	the	best	use	of	our	time?	I	mean,	we	have
 a	near-Earth	resupply	to	plan,	not	to	mention	figuring	out	how	to	get	Watney	to
 Schiaparelli.	We’ve	got	a	lot	on	our	plates.
You’re	damn	right	we	have	a	lot	on	our	plates!
After	your
 little	stunt,	we’re	committed	to	this	thing.
Alleged	stunt,
I	suppose	Annie	will	tell	the
 media	we	decided	to	try	this	risky	maneuver?	And	she’ll	leave	out	the	mutiny
 part?
Of	course,
Otherwise	we’d	look	like	idiots.
I	guess	everyone’s	off	the	hook	then!
Can’t	fire	people	for
 enacting	NASA	policy.	Even	Lewis	is	fine.	What	mutiny?	And	maybe	Watney
 gets	to	live.	Happy	endings	all	around!
You	may	have	killed	the	whole	crew,
Ever	think	of
 that?
Whoever	gave	them	the	maneuver,
only	passed	along
 information.	Lewis	made	the	decision	to	act	on	it.	If	she	let	emotion	cloud	her
judgment,	she’d	be	a	shitty	commander.	And	she’s	not	a	shitty	commander.
If	I	can	ever	prove	it	was	you,	I’ll	find	a	way	to	fire	you	for	it,
Sure.
But	if	I	wasn’t	willing	to	take	risks	to	save	lives,
 I’d…
Well,	I	guess	I’d	be	you.
What	about	the	MAV?
Won’t
 it	have	some	supplies?	Air	and	water	at	the	very	least?
Big	Three
structural
 changes
cut	a	big	hole	in	the	hull.
the	trailer.
draw
workbench.
a	box
emergency
Life	on	Mars?
Rocket	Man
Alone	Again	(Naturally)
Stayin’	Alive
We	interrupt	this	program…
PF	FRIED	WITH	9	AMPS.
 DEAD	FOREVER.	PLAN	UNCHANGED.	WILL	GET	TO	MAV.
Kilowatt-hours	per	sol
pirate-ninja.
But	wait!
Mars’s	atmosphere	isn’t	liquid.	Why	does	the
 Hab’s	air	condense?
ramp	up
Ahhhhhh.
air	sols.
INJURED	BACK.	BETTER
 NOW.	CONTINUING	ROVER	MODS.
saddlebags
shelves
HEY,	MELISSA…,
Am	I	getting	through?	Can	you	see	me?
Loud	and	clear,	babe,
The	video	link	is	solid.
They	say	I	have	five	minutes,
Better	than	nothing,
It’s	nice	to	see	you	in	real-time	for	a	change.
Yeah.
I	can	hardly	notice	the	delay.	I	gotta	say,	I	wish	you
 were	coming	home.
Me,	too,	babe.
Don’t	get	me	wrong,
I	understand	why	you’re	doing
 all	this.	Still,	from	a	selfish	point	of	view,	I	miss	my	wife.	Hey,	are	you
 floating?
Huh?
Oh,	yeah.	The	ship	isn’t	spinning	right	now.	No
 centripetal	gravity.
Why	not?
Because	we’re	docking	with	the	Taiyang	Shen	in	a	few	days.	We	can’t	spin
 while	we	dock	with	things.
I	see,
So	how	are	things	up	on	the	ship?	Anyone	giving	you
 shit?
No.
They’re	a	good	crew;	I’m	lucky	to	have	them.
Oh	hey!
I	found	a	great	addition	to	our	collection!
Oh?	What’d	you	get?
An	original-production	eight-track	of	Abba’s	Greatest	Hits.	Still	in	the
 original	packaging.
Seriously?	A	1976	or	one	of	the	reprints?
1976	all	the	way.
Wow!	Good	find!
I	know,	right!?
Oh	gods,
That	was	the	longest	flight	I’ve
 ever	been	on.
Mm,
At	least	we	don’t	have	to	go	to	Jiuquan	till	tomorrow,
Fourteen	and	a	half	hours	of	flying	is	enough	for	one	day.
Don’t	get	too	comfortable,
We	still	have	to	go	through
 customs,	and	we’ll	probably	have	to	fill	out	a	bunch	of	forms	because	we’re	U.S.
 government	officials.…	It’s	gonna	be	hours	before	we	sleep.
Craaaap.
Excuse	me,	gentlemen,
My
 name	is	Su	Bin	Bao,
I	am	an	employee	of	the	China
 National	Space	Administration.	I	will	be	your	guide	and	translator	during	your
 stay	in	the	People’s	Republic	of	China.
Nice	to	meet	you,	Mr.	Su,
I’m	Teddy	Sanders,	and	this	is	Dr.
 Venkat	Kapoor.
We	need	sleep,
Just	as	soon	as	we	get	through
 customs,	please	get	us	to	our	hotel.
I	can	do	better	than	that,	Dr.	Kapoor.
You	are	official	guests	of
 the	People’s	Republic	of	China.	You	have	been	preauthorized	to	bypass
 customs.	I	can	take	you	to	your	hotel	immediately.
I	love	you,
Tell	the	People’s	Republic	of	China	we	said	thanks,
I’ll	pass	that	along.
HELENA,	MY	LOVE,
I	trust	you	are	well?
Yes,
I’m	fine.	But	I	do	miss	you.
Sorry.
Can’t	be	helped.
How	are	our	monkeys?
The	children	are	fine.
Eliza	has	a	crush	on	a	new	boy	in	her
 class,	and	Victor	has	been	named	goalkeeper	for	his	high	school’s	team.
Excellent!
I	hear	you	are	at	Mission	Control.	Was	NASA
 unable	to	pipe	the	signal	to	Bremen?
They	could	have,
But	it	was	easier	for	them	to	bring	me	to
 Houston.	A	free	vacation	to	the	United	States.	Who	am	I	to	turn	that	down?
Well	played.	And	how	is	my	mother?
As	well	as	can	be	expected,
She	has	her	good	days	and	bad
 days.	She	did	not	recognize	me	on	my	last	visit.	In	a	way,	it’s	a	blessing.	She
 doesn’t	have	to	worry	about	you	like	I	do.
She	hasn’t	worsened?
No,	she’s	about	the	same	as	when	you	left.	The	doctors	are	sure	she’ll	still	be
 here	when	you	return.
Good,
I	was	worried	I’d	seen	her	for	the	last	time.
Alex,
will	you	be	safe?
As	safe	as	we	can	be,
The	ship	is	in	perfect	condition,	and	after
 receiving	the	Taiyang	Shen,	we	will	have	all	the	supplies	we	need	for	the
 remainder	of	the	journey.
Be	careful.
I	will,	my	love,
WELCOME	TO	JIUQUAN,
I	hope	your	flight	was	smooth?
Yes,	thank	you,
The	hospitality	of	your	people	has	been
 wonderful.	The	private	jet	you	arranged	to	bring	us	here	was	a	nice	touch.
My	people	have	enjoyed	working	with	your	advance	team,
The	last	month	has	been	very	interesting.	Attaching	an	American	probe	to	a
 Chinese	booster.	I	believe	this	is	the	first	time	it’s	ever	been	done.
It	just	goes	to	show,
Love	of	science	is	universal	across	all
 cultures.
My	people	have	especially	commented	on	the	work	ethic
 of	your	man,	Mitch	Henderson.	He	is	very	dedicated.
He’s	a	pain	in	the	ass,
You	can	say	that,
I	cannot.
SO	EXPLAIN	it	again,
Why	do	you	have	to	do	an
 EVA?
I	probably	don’t,
I	just	need	to	be	ready	to.
Why?
In	case	the	probe	can’t	dock	with	us.	If	something	goes	wrong,	it’ll	be	my
 job	to	go	out	and	grab	it.
Can’t	you	just	move	Hermes	to	dock	with	it?
No	way,
Hermes	is	huge.	It’s	not	made	for	fine	maneuvering
 control.
Why	does	it	have	to	be	you?
’Cause	I’m	the	EVA	specialist.
But	I	thought	you	were	the	doctor.
I	am,
Everyone	has	multiple	roles.	I’m	the	doctor,	the	biologist,
and	the	EVA	specialist.	Commander	Lewis	is	our	geologist.	Johanssen	is	the
 sysop	and	reactor	tech.	And	so	on.
How	about	that	good-looking	guy…Martinez?
What	does	he
 do?
He	pilots	the	MDV	and	MAV,
He’s	also	married	with	a	kid,
 you	lecherous	homewrecker.
Ah	well.	How	about	Watney?	What	did	he	do?
He’s	our	botanist	and	engineer.	And	don’t	talk	about	him	in	the	past	tense.
Engineer?	Like	Scotty?
Kind	of,
He	fixes	stuff.
I	bet	that’s	coming	in	handy	now.
Yeah,	no	shit.
They’re	a	weird	bunch,	these	Chinese	nerds,
But	they	make	a	good	booster.
Good,
How’s	the	linkage	between	the	booster	and	our
 probe?
It	all	checks	out,
JPL	followed	the	specs	perfectly.	It	fits	like	a
 glove.
Any	concerns	or	reservations?
Yeah.	I’m	concerned	about	what	I	ate	last	night.	I	think	it	had	an	eyeball	in
 it.
I’m	sure	there	wasn’t	an	eyeball.
The	engineers	here	made	it	for	me	special,
There	may	have	been	an	eyeball,
They	hate	you.
Why?
’Cause	you’re	a	dick,	Mitch,
A	total	dick.	To	everyone.
Fair	enough.	So	long	as	the	probe	gets	to	Hermes,	they	can	burn	me	in	effigy
 for	all	I	care.
WAVE	TO	DADDY!
Wave	to
 Daddy!
He’s	too	young	to	know	what’s	going	on,
Just	think	of	the	playground	cred	he’ll	have	later	in	life,
‘My	dad
 went	to	Mars.	What’s	your	dad	do?’
Yes,	I’m	pretty	awesome,
So,
you’re	pissed.
You	can	tell?
I	tried	to	hide	it.
We’ve	been	together	since	we	were	fifteen.	I	know	when	you’re	pissed.
You	volunteered	to	extend	the	mission	five	hundred	and	thirty-three	days,
asshole.
Yeah,
I	figured	that’d	be	the	reason.
Your	son	will	be	in	kindergarten	when	you	get	back.	He	won’t	have	any
 memories	of	you.
I	know,
I	have	to	wait	another	five	hundred	and	thirty-three	days	to	get	laid!
So	do	I,
I	have	to	worry	about	you	that	whole	time,
Yeah,
Sorry.
We’ll	get	past	it.
We’ll	get	past	it,
WELCOME	TO	CNN’s	Mark	Watney	Report.	Today,	we	have	the	director	of	Mars
operations,	Venkat	Kapoor.	He’s	speaking	to	us	live	via	satellite	from	China.	Dr.
 Kapoor,	thank	you	for	joining	us.
Happy	to	do	it,
So,	Dr.	Kapoor,	tell	us	about	the	Taiyang	Shen.	Why	go	to	China	to	launch	a
 probe?	Why	not	launch	it	from	the	US?
Hermes	isn’t	going	to	orbit	Earth,
It’s	just	passing	by	on	its
 way	to	Mars.	And	its	velocity	is	huge.	We	need	a	booster	capable	of	not	only
 escaping	Earth’s	gravity	but	matching	Hermes’s	current	velocity.	Only	the
 Taiyang	Shen	has	enough	power	to	do	that.
Tell	us	about	the	probe	itself.
It	was	a	rush	job,
JPL	only	had	thirty	days	to	put	it	together.
 They	had	to	be	as	safe	and	efficient	as	they	could.	It’s	basically	a	shell	full	of
 food	and	other	supplies.	It	has	a	standard	satellite	thruster	package	for
 maneuvering,	but	that’s	it.
And	that’s	enough	to	fly	to	Hermes?
The	Taiyang	Shen	will	send	it	to	Hermes.	The	thrusters	are	for	fine	control
 and	docking.	And	JPL	didn’t	have	time	to	make	a	guidance	system.	So	it’ll	be
 remote-controlled	by	a	human	pilot.
Who	will	be	controlling	it?
The	Ares	3	pilot,	Major	Rick	Martinez.	As	the	probe	approaches	Hermes,
 he’ll	take	over	and	guide	it	to	the	docking	port.
And	what	if	there’s	a	problem?
Hermes	will	have	their	EVA	specialist,	Dr.	Chris	Beck,	suited	up	and	ready
 the	whole	time.	If	necessary,	he	will	literally	grab	the	probe	with	his	hands	and
 drag	it	to	the	docking	port.
Sounds	kind	of	unscientific.
You	want	unscientific?
If	the	probe	can’t	attach	to	the
 docking	port	for	some	reason,	Beck	will	open	the	probe	and	carry	its	contents	to
 the	airlock.
Like	bringing	in	the	groceries?
Exactly	like	that,
And	we	estimate	it	would	take	four	trips
 back	and	forth.	But	that’s	all	an	edge	case.	We	don’t	anticipate	any	problems
 with	the	docking	process.
Sounds	like	you’re	covering	all	your	bases.
We	have	to,
If	they	don’t	get	those	supplies…Well,	they	need
 those	supplies.
Thanks	for	taking	the	time	to	answer	our	questions,
Always	a	pleasure,	Cathy.
What	if	the	probe	doesn’t	get	to	you?
Try	not	to	think	about	that,
Your	mother	is	so	worried	she	couldn’t	even	come.
I’m	sorry,
She	can’t	eat,	she	can’t	sleep,	she	feels	sick	all	the	time.	I’m	not	much	better.
 How	can	they	make	you	do	this?
They’re	not	‘making’	me	do	it,	Dad.	I	volunteered.
Why	would	you	do	that	to	your	mother?
Sorry,
Watney’s	my	crewmate.	I	can’t	just	let	him
 die.
I	wish	we’d	raised	you	to	be	more	selfish.
How	did	I	end	up	in	this	situation?	I’m	the	district	sales	manager	of	a	napkin
 factory.	Why	is	my	daughter	in	space?
You	were	always	scientifically	minded,
It	was	great!	Straight-A
 student.	Hanging	around	nerdy	guys	too	scared	to	try	anything.	No	wild	side	at
 all.	You	were	every	father’s	dream	daughter.
Thanks,	Dad,	I—
But	then	you	got	on	a	giant	bomb	that	blasted	you	to	Mars.	And	I	mean	that
 literally.
Technically,
the	booster	only	took	me	into	orbit.	It	was	the
 nuclear-powered	ion	engine	that	took	me	to	Mars.
Oh,	much	better!
Dad,	I’ll	be	all	right.	Tell	Mom	I’ll	be	all	right.
What	good	will	that	do?
She’s	going	to	be	tied	up	in	knots	until
 you’re	back	home.
I	know,
But…
What?	But	what?
I	won’t	die.	I	really	won’t.	Even	if	everything	goes	wrong.
What	do	you	mean?
Just	tell	Mom	I	won’t	die.
How?	I	don’t	understand.
I	don’t	want	to	get	into	the	how,
Look,
I’ve	always	respected	your
 privacy	and	independence.	I	never	tried	to	pry	into	your	life,	never	tried	to
 control	you.	I’ve	been	really	good	about	that,	right?
Yeah.
So	in	exchange	for	a	lifetime	of	staying	out	of	your	business,	let	me	nose	in
 just	this	once.	What	are	you	not	telling	me?
They	have	a	plan.
Who?
They	always	have	a	plan,
They	work	out	everything	in	advance.
What	plan?
They	picked	me	to	survive.	I’m	youngest.	I	have	the	skills	necessary	to	get
 home	alive.	And	I’m	the	smallest	and	need	the	least	food.
What	happens	if	the	probe	fails,	Beth?
Everyone	would	die	but	me,
They’d	all	take	pills	and	die.	They’ll
 do	it	right	away	so	they	don’t	use	up	any	food.	Commander	Lewis	picked	me	to
 be	the	survivor.	She	told	me	about	it	yesterday.	I	don’t	think	NASA	knows	about
 it.
And	the	supplies	would	last	until	you	got	back	to	Earth?
No,
We	have	enough	food	left	to	feed	six	people	for	a	month.	If	I
 was	the	only	one,	it	would	last	six	months.	With	a	reduced	diet	I	could	stretch	it
 to	nine.	But	it’ll	be	seventeen	months	before	I	get	back.
So	how	would	you	survive?
The	supplies	wouldn’t	be	the	only	source	of	food,
Oh…oh	my	god…
Just	tell	Mom	the	supplies	would	last,	okay?
Perfect	launch,
Of	course,
You	guys	really	came	through	for	us,
And	we’re	grateful!
Naturally.
And	hey,	you	guys	get	a	seat	on	Ares	5.	Everyone	wins.
Mmm.
You	don’t	seem	too	happy.
I	spent	four	years	working	on	Taiyang	Shen,
So	did	countless
 other	researchers,	scientists,	and	engineers.	Everyone	poured	their	souls	into
 construction	while	I	waged	a	constant	political	battle	to	maintain	funding.
 “In	the	end,	we	built	a	beautiful	probe.	The	largest,	sturdiest	unmanned	probe
 in	history.	And	now	it’s	sitting	in	a	warehouse.	It’ll	never	fly.	The	State	Council
 won’t	fund	another	booster	like	that.
It	could	have	been	a	lasting	legacy	of	scientific
 research.	Now	it’s	a	delivery	run.	We’ll	get	a	Chinese	astronaut	on	Mars,	but
 what	science	will	he	bring	back	that	some	other	astronaut	couldn’t	have?	This
 operation	is	a	net	loss	for	mankind’s	knowledge.
Well,
it’s	a	net	gain	for	Mark	Watney.
Mmm,
DISTANCE	61meters,	velocity	2.3	meters	per	second,
No	problem,
Visual	contact.
Vogel,
You	in	position?
Ja,
 in	position	and	ready,
All	right,	Martinez,
Bring	it	in.
Aye,	Commander.
Distance	43	meters,	velocity	2.3	meters	per	second,
All	stats	nominal,
Slight	rotation	in	the	probe,
Relative	rotational	velocity	is
 0.05	revolutions	per	second.
Anything	under	0.3	is	fine,
The	capture	system	can	deal
 with	it.
Probe	is	well	within	manual	recovery	range,
Copy,
Distance	22	meters,	velocity	2.3	meters	per	second,
Angle
 is	good.
Slowing	her	down	a	little,
Velocity	1.8…1.3…,
0.9…stable	at	0.9	meters	per
 second.
Range?
Twelve	meters,
Velocity	steady	at	0.9	meters	per
 second.
Angle?
Angle	is	good.
Then	we’re	in	line	for	auto-capture,
Come	to	Papa.
Docking	complete,
Seal	is	tight,
Beck,
your	services	won’t	be	needed.
Roger	that,	Commander,
Closing	airlock.
Vogel,	return	to	interior,
Copy,	Commander,
Airlock	pressure	to	one	hundred	percent,
Reentering	ship.
 …	I’m	back	in.
Also	inside,
Houst—	er…Jiuquan,	probe	docking
 complete.	No	complications.
Glad	to	hear	it,	Hermes.	Report	status	of
 all	supplies	once	you	get	them	aboard	and	inspected.
Roger,	Jiuquan,
Unload	the
 probe	and	stow	the	supplies.	I’m	going	to	help	Beck	and	Vogel	de-suit.
So,
who	would	you	have	eaten	first?
’Cause	I	think	I’d	be	tastiest,
Look	at	that.
 Good	solid	muscle	there.
You’re	not	funny.
I’m	free-range,	you	know.	Corn-fed.
Come	on!	I	thought	you	liked	Mexican!
Not	listening,
atmospheric	regulator	external	component
plastic	box
Ziploc	bag
international	waters.
bedroom,
Departure
Halfway
Arrival
Survived	Something	That	Should	Have	Killed	Me
Last	Meal.
hot	water	with	a	caffeine	pill	dissolved	in	it.
puffed
ghetto
Hey,	I’m	pretty	sure	the	helmet’s	not	on!
lost
feel
What	would	an	Apollo	astronaut	do?
HOW’S	WATNEY	doing?
Dr.	Kapoor?
I	hear	you	caught	a	pic	of	him	during	an	EVA?
Uh,	yeah,
I	noticed	things	would
 always	change	around	9	a.m.	local	time.	People	usually	keep	the	same	patterns,
 so	I	figured	he	likes	to	start	work	around	then.	I	did	some	minor	realignment	to
 get	seventeen	pics	between	9	and	9:10.	He	showed	up	in	one	of	them.
Good	thinking.	Can	I	see	the	pic?
Sure.
Is	this	as	good	as	it	gets?
Well,	it	is	a	photo	taken	from	orbit,
The	NSA	enhanced	the
 image	with	the	best	software	they	have.
Wait,	what?
The	NSA?
Yeah,	they	called	and	offered	to	help	out.	Same	software	they	use	for
 enhancing	spy	satellite	imagery.
It’s	amazing	how	much	red	tape	gets	cut	when	everyone’s
 rooting	for	one	man	to	survive.
What’s	Watney
 doing	here?
I	think	he’s	loading	something	into	the	rover.
When	was	the	last	time	he	worked	on	the	trailer?
Not	for	a	while.	Why	doesn’t	he	write	us	notes	more	often?
He’s	busy.	He	works	most	of	the	daylight	hours,	and
 arranging	rocks	to	spell	a	message	takes	time	and	energy.
So…,
Why’d	you	come	here	in	person?	We	could	have	done
 all	this	over	e-mail.
Actually,	I	came	to	talk	to	you,
There’s	going	to	be	a	change	in
 your	responsibilities.	From	now	on,	instead	of	managing	the	satellites	around
 Mars,	your	sole	responsibility	is	watching	Mark	Watney.
What?
What	about	course	corrections	and	alignment?
We’ll	assign	that	to	other	people,
From	now	on,	your	only
 focus	is	examining	imagery	of	Ares	3.
That’s	a	demotion,
I’m	an	orbital	engineer,	and	you’re	turning
 me	into	a	glorified	Peeping	Tom.
It’s	short-term,
And	we’ll	make	it	up	to	you.	Thing	is,	you’ve
 been	doing	it	for	months,	and	you’re	an	expert	at	identifying	elements	of	Ares	3
 from	satellite	pics.	We	don’t	have	anyone	else	who	can	do	that.
Why	is	this	suddenly	so	important?
He’s	running	out	of	time,
We	don’t	know	how	far	along	he	is
 on	the	rover	modifications.	But	we	do	know	he’s	only	got	sixteen	sols	to	get
 them	done.	We	need	to	know	exactly	what	he’s	doing.	I’ve	got	media	outlets	and
 senators	asking	for	his	status	all	the	time.	The	President	even	called	me	a	couple
 of	times.
But	seeing	his	status	doesn’t	help,
It’s	not	like	we	can	do
 anything	about	it	if	he	falls	behind.	This	is	a	pointless	task.
How	long	have	you	worked	for	the	government?
some	assembly	required.
balloon
What’s	up,	Venk?
Why	the	sudden	meeting?
We’ve	got	some	developments,
Mindy,	why	don’t	you	bring
 them	up	to	date?
Uh,	yeah,
Looks	like	Watney	finished	the	balloon	addition	to
 the	trailer.	It	mostly	uses	the	design	we	sent	him.
Any	idea	how	stable	it	is?
Pretty	stable,
It’s	been	inflated	for	several	days	with	no	problems.
 Also,	he	built	some	kind	of…room.
Room?
It’s	made	of	Hab	canvas,	I	think,
It	attaches	to	the
 rover’s	airlock.	I	think	he	cut	a	section	out	of	the	Hab	to	make	it.	I	don’t	know
 what	it’s	for.
Why	would	he	do	that?
We	think	it’s	a	workshop,
There’ll	be	a	lot	of	work	to	do	on
 the	MAV	once	he	gets	to	Schiaparelli.	It’ll	be	easier	without	an	EVA	suit.	He
 probably	plans	to	do	as	much	as	he	can	in	that	room.
Clever,
Watney’s	a	clever	guy,
How	about	getting	life	support	in
 there?
I	think	he’s	done	it,
He	moved	the	AREC.
Sorry,
What’s	an	AREC?
It’s	the	external	component	of	the	atmospheric	regulator,
It
 sits	outside	the	Hab,	so	I	saw	when	it	disappeared.	He	probably	mounted	it	on
 the	rover.	There’s	no	other	reason	to	move	it,	so	I’m	guessing	he’s	got	life
 support	online.
Awesome,
Things	are	coming	together.
Don’t	celebrate	yet,	Mitch,
This	is	Randall	Carter,	one	of	our	Martian	meteorologists.	Randall,	tell	them
 what	you	told	me.
Thank	you,	Dr.	Kapoor.
Over	the	past	few	weeks,	a	dust	storm	has	been
 developing	in	Arabia	Terra.	Not	a	big	deal	in	terms	of	magnitude.	It	won’t
 hinder	his	driving	at	all.
So	what’s	the	problem?
It’s	a	low-velocity	dust	storm,
Slow	winds,	but	fast
 enough	to	pick	up	very	small	particles	on	the	surface	and	whip	them	into	thick
 clouds.	There	are	five	or	six	of	them	every	year.	The	thing	is,	they	last	for
 months,	they	cover	huge	sections	of	the	planet,	and	they	make	the	atmosphere
 thick	with	dust.
I	still	don’t	see	the	problem,
Light,
The	total	sunlight	reaching	the	surface	is	very	low	in
 the	area	of	the	storm.	Right	now,	it’s	twenty	percent	of	normal.	And	Watney’s
 rover	is	powered	by	solar	panels.
Shit,
And	we	can’t	warn	him.
So	he	gets	less	power,
Can’t	he	just	recharge	longer?
The	current	plan	already	has	him	recharging	all	day	long,
With	twenty	percent	of	normal	daylight,	it’ll	take	five	times	as	long	to	get	the
 same	energy.	It’ll	turn	his	forty	five-sol	trip	into	two	hundred	and	twenty-five
 sols.	He’ll	miss	the	Hermes	flyby.
Can’t	Hermes	wait	for	him?
It’s	a	flyby,
Hermes	isn’t	going	into	Martian	orbit.	If	they	did,
 they	wouldn’t	be	able	to	get	back.	They	need	their	velocity	for	the	return
 trajectory.
We’ll	just	have	to	hope	he	finds
 a	way	through.	We	can	track	his	progress	and—
No,	we	can’t,
We	can’t?
The	satellites	won’t	be	able	to	see	through	the	dust.
 Once	he	enters	the	affected	area,	we	won’t	see	anything	until	he	comes	out	the
 other	side.
Well…,
Shit.
plugs-out	test.
Let’s	get	through	status	quickly,
We’re	all	behind	in	our
 science	assignments.	Vogel,	you	first.
I	repaired	the	bad	cable	on	VASIMR	4,
It	was	our	last
 thick-gauge	cable.	If	another	such	problem	occurs,	we	will	have	to	braid	lower
gauge	lines	to	carry	the	current.	Also,	the	power	output	from	the	reactor	is
 declining.
Johanssen,
what’s	the	deal	with	the	reactor?
I	had	to	dial	it	back,
It’s	the	cooling	vanes.	They	aren’t
 radiating	heat	as	well	as	they	used	to.	They’re	tarnishing.
How	can	that	happen?
They’re	outside	the	craft.	There’s
 nothing	for	them	to	react	with.
I	think	they	picked	up	dust	or	small	air	leaks	from	Hermes	itself.	One	way	or
 another,	they’re	definitely	tarnishing.	The	tarnish	is	clogging	the	micro-lattice,
 and	that	reduces	the	surface	area.	Less	surface	area	means	less	heat	dissipation.
 So	I	limited	the	reactor	enough	that	we	weren’t	getting	positive	heat.
Any	chance	of	repairing	the	cooling	vanes?
It’s	on	the	microscopic	scale,
We’d	need	a	lab.	Usually
 they	replace	the	vanes	after	each	mission.
Will	we	be	able	to	maintain	engine	power	for	the	rest	of	the	mission?
Yes,	if	the	rate	of	tarnishing	doesn’t	increase.
All	right,	keep	an	eye	on	it.	Beck,	how’s	life	support?
Limping,
We’ve	been	in	space	way	longer	than	it	was	designed
 to	handle.	There	are	a	bunch	of	filters	that	would	normally	be	replaced	each
 mission.	I	found	a	way	to	clean	them	with	a	chemical	bath	I	made	in	the	lab,	but
 it	eats	away	at	the	filters	themselves.	We’re	okay	right	now,	but	who	knows
 what’ll	break	next?
We	knew	this	would	happen,
The	design	of	Hermes	assumed	it
 would	get	an	overhaul	after	each	mission,	but	we’ve	extended	Ares	3	from	396
 days	to	898.	Things	are	going	to	break.	We’ve	got	all	of	NASA	to	help	when
 that	happens.	We	just	need	to	stay	on	top	of	maintenance.	Martinez,	what’s	the
 deal	with	your	bunk	room?
It’s	still	trying	to	cook	me.	The	climate	control
 just	isn’t	keeping	up.	I	think	it’s	the	tubing	in	the	walls	that	brings	the	coolant.	I
 can’t	get	at	it	because	it’s	built	into	the	hull.	We	can	use	the	room	for	storage	of
 non-temperature-sensitive	cargo,	but	that’s	about	it.
So	did	you	move	into	Mark’s	room?
It’s	right	next	to	mine,
It	has	the	same	problem.
Where	have	you	been	sleeping?
In	Airlock	2.	It’s	the	only	place	I	can	be	without	people	tripping	over	me.
No	good,
If	one	seal	breaks,	you	die.
I	can’t	think	of	anywhere	else	to	sleep,
The	ship	is	pretty	cramped,
 and	if	I	sleep	in	a	hallway	I’ll	be	in	people’s	way.
Okay,	from	now	on,	sleep	in	Beck’s	room.	Beck	can	sleep	with	Johanssen.
So…,
you	know	about	that?
You	thought	I	didn’t?
It’s	a	small	ship.
You’re	not	mad?
If	it	were	a	normal	mission,	I	would	be,
But	we’re	way	off
script	now.	Just	keep	it	from	interfering	with	your	duties,	and	I’m	happy.
Million-mile-high	club,
Nice!
Air	Day.
later	in	life,
WELCOME	BACK	to	CNN’s	Mark	Watney	Report,
We’re	speaking	with	our	frequent	guest,	Dr.	Venkat	Kapoor.	Dr.	Kapoor,	I
 guess	what	people	want	to	know	is,	is	Mark	Watney	doomed?
We	hope	not,
but	he’s	got	a	real	challenge	ahead	of
 him.
According	to	your	latest	satellite	data,	the	dust	storm	in	Arabia	Terra	isn’t
 abating	at	all,	and	will	block	eighty	percent	of	the	sunlight?
That’s	correct.
And	Watney’s	only	source	of	energy	is	his	solar	panels,	correct?
Yes,	that’s	right.
Can	his	makeshift	rover	operate	at	twenty	percent	power?
We	haven’t	found	any	way	to	make	that	happen,	no.	His	life	support	alone
 takes	more	energy	than	that.
How	long	until	he	enters	the	storm?
He’s	just	entered	Mawrth	Vallis	now.	At	his	current	rate	of	travel,	he’ll	be	at
 the	edge	of	the	storm	on	Sol	471.	That’s	twelve	days	from	now.
Surely	he’ll	see	something	is	wrong,
With	such	low	visibility,
 it	won’t	take	long	for	him	to	realize	his	solar	cells	will	have	a	problem.	Couldn’t
 he	just	turn	around	at	that	point?
Unfortunately,	everything’s	working	against	him,
The	edge	of
 the	storm	isn’t	a	magic	line.	It’s	just	an	area	where	the	dust	gets	a	little	more
 dense.	It’ll	keep	getting	more	and	more	dense	as	he	travels	onward.	It’ll	be	really
 subtle;	every	day	will	be	slightly	darker	than	the	last.	Too	subtle	to	notice.
He’ll	go	hundreds	of	kilometers,	wondering	why	his	solar
 panel	efficiency	is	going	down,	before	he	notices	any	visibility	problems.	And
 the	storm	is	moving	west	as	he	moves	east.	He’ll	be	too	deep	in	to	get	out.
Are	we	just	watching	a	tragedy	play	out?
There’s	always	hope,
Maybe	he’ll	figure	it	out	faster	than	we
 think	and	turn	around	in	time.	Maybe	the	storm	will	dissipate	unexpectedly.
 Maybe	he’ll	find	a	way	to	keep	his	life	support	going	on	less	energy	than	we
 thought	was	possible.	Mark	Watney	is	now	an	expert	at	surviving	on	Mars.	If
 anyone	can	do	it,	it’s	him.
Twelve	days,
All	of	Earth	is	watching	but
 powerless	to	help.
map
ON	TRACK	FOR	SOL	494	ARRIVAL.
Note:	five	sols	until	dust	storm	entry.
Thanks	for	gathering	samples.	But	leave	them	behind.
 And	one	of	your	arms,	too.	Whichever	one	you	like	least.
DID	YOU	read	today’s	updates?
Yeah,
Mark	entered	the	dust
storm	yesterday.
Yeah,	I	saw	that,
We	need	to	face	the	possibility	that	he	won’t	make	it	to	Schiaparelli,
If	that	happens,	we	need	to	keep	morale	up.	We	still	have	a	long	way	to	go
 before	we	get	home.
He	was	dead	before,
It	was	rough	on	morale,	but	we
 soldiered	on.	Besides,	he	won’t	die.
It’s	pretty	bleak,	Rick,
He’s	already	fifty	kilometers	into	the
 storm,	and	he’ll	go	another	ninety	kilometers	per	sol.	He’ll	get	in	too	deep	to
 recover	soon.
He’ll	pull	through,	Commander.	Have	faith.
Rick,	you	know	I’m	not	religious.
I	know,
I’m	not	talking	about	faith	in	God,	I’m	talking	about	faith
 in	Mark	Watney.	Look	at	all	the	shit	Mars	has	thrown	at	him,	and	he’s	still	alive.
 He’ll	survive	this.	I	don’t	know	how,	but	he	will.	He’s	a	clever	son	of	a	bitch.
I	hope	you’re	right.
Want	to	bet	a	hundred	bucks?
Of	course	not,
Damn	right,
I’d	never	bet	on	a	crewmate	dying,
But	that	doesn’t	mean	I
 think	he’ll—
Blah	blah	blah,
Deep	down,	you	think	he’ll	make	it.
Entrance	Crater.
When	I	was	younger,	I	had	to	walk	to
 the	rim	of	a	crater.	Uphill!	In	an	EVA	suit!	On	Mars,	ya	little	shit!	Ya	hear	me?
 Mars!
DUST	STORM.	MAKING	PLAN.
percent	power	loss.
record
power	loggers
opportunity
Entrance	Ramp.
Jesus,
What	the	hell	happened?
The	rover’s	on	its	side,
The	trailer’s
 upside	down.	Those	rectangles	scattered	around	are	solar	cells.
Do	we	have	any	information	on	the	state	of
 the	rover	pressure	vessel?
Nothing	obvious,
Any	signs	of	Watney	doing	something	after	the	accident?	An	EVA	maybe?
No	EVA,
The	weather’s	clear.	If	he’d	come	out,	there’d	be
 visible	footsteps.
Is	this	the	entire	crash	site?
I	think	so,
Up	toward	the	top	of	the	photo,	which	is	north,
 there	are	ordinary	wheel	tracks.	Right	here,
is	where	I	think	things	went	wrong.	Judging	by	where	that	ditch	is,	I’d
 say	the	rover	rolled	and	slid	from	there.	You	can	see	the	trench	it	left	behind.
 The	trailer	flipped	forward	onto	its	roof.
I’m	not	saying	everything’s	okay,
but	I	don’t	think	it’s	as	bad
 as	it	looks.
Go	on,
The	rover’s	designed	to	handle	a	roll,
And	if	there’d	been
 pressure	loss,	there’d	be	a	starburst	pattern	in	the	sand.	I	don’t	see	anything	like
 that.
Watney	may	still	be	hurt	inside,
He	could	have	banged	his
 head	or	broken	an	arm	or	something.
Sure,
I’m	just	saying	the	rover	is	probably	okay.
When	was	this	taken?
We	got	it	seventeen	minutes	ago.	We’ll	get
 another	pic	in	nine	minutes	when	MGS4’s	orbit	brings	it	into	view.
First	thing	he’ll	do	is	an	EVA	to	assess	damage,
Mindy,	keep
 us	posted	on	any	changes.
unacceptably	dangerous	tilt.
ROLLED.	FIXING	NOW.
What?	That’s	it?
That’s	all	he	said,
Just	three	words?	Nothing	about	his	physical	health?	His	equipment?	His
 supplies?
You	got	me,
He	left	a	detailed	status	report.	I	just	decided	to	lie
 for	no	reason.
Funny,
Be	a	smart-ass	to	a	guy	seven	levels	above	you	at	your
 company.	See	how	that	works	out.
Oh	no,
I	might	lose	my	job	as	an	interplanetary	voyeur?	I
 guess	I’d	have	to	use	my	master’s	degree	for	something	else.
I	remember	when	you	were	shy.
I’m	space	paparazzi	now.	The	attitude	comes	with	the	job.
Yeah,	yeah,
Just	send	the	e-mail.
Already	sent.
lucky	cable.
enjoying
hating	so	much	I	want	to	kill	people.
lovemaking.
SO,	IT	looks	like	he’s	fixed	everything,
And	his	message
 today	was	‘ALL	BETTER	NOW,’	so	I	guess	he’s	got	everything	working.
Awesome,
Great	news.
How	are	the	MAV	modification	plans
 coming,	Bruce?	Is	JPL	going	to	have	that	procedure	soon?
We’re	working	around	the	clock	on	it,
We’re	past	most	of	the
 big	hurdles.	Working	out	the	details	now.
Good,	good,
Any	surprises	I	should	know	about?
Um…,
Yeah,	a	few.	This	might	not	be	the	best	venue	for	it.	I’ll
 be	back	in	Houston	with	the	procedure	in	a	day	or	two.	We	can	go	through	it
 then.
Ominous,
But	okay,	we’ll	pick	it	up	later.
Can	I	spread	the	word?
It’d	be	nice	to	see	something	other
 than	the	rover	crash	site	on	the	news	tonight.
Definitely,
It’ll	be	nice	to	have	some	good	news	for	a	change.
 Mindy,	how	long	until	he	gets	to	the	MAV?
At	his	usual	rate	of	90	kilometers	per	sol,
he	should	get	there
 on	Sol	504.	Sol	505	if	he	takes	his	time.	He	always	drives	in	the	early	morning,
 finishing	around	noon.
Noon	on	Sol
 504	will	be	11:41	a.m.	this	Wednesday	here	in	Houston.	Noon	on	Sol	505	will
 be	12:21	p.m.	on	Thursday.
Mitch,	who’s	handling	Ares	4	MAV	communications?
The	Ares	3	Mission	Control	team,
It’ll	be	in	Control	Room
 2.
I	assume	you’ll	be	there?
Bet	your	ass	I’ll	be	there.
So	will	I.
Survived	Something	That	Should	Have	Killed	Me.
Arrival
GOT	BEACON	SIGNAL.
AWESOME	IDEA!!!
Have	a	good	flight?
I	only	have	a	passing	memory	of	what	sleep	is,
So	is	it	ready?
Yes,	it’s	ready.	But	you’re	not	going	to	like	it.
Go	on.
Bear	in	mind,	this	is	the	end	result	of	thousands	of	hours	of	work,
 testing,	and	lateral	thinking	by	all	the	best	guys	at	JPL.
I’m	sure	it	was	hard	to	trim	down	a	ship	that’s	already	designed	to	be	as	light
 as	possible,
The	problem	is	the	intercept
 velocity.	The	MAV	is	designed	to	get	to	low	Mars	orbit,	which	only	requires	4.1
 kps.	But	the	Hermes	flyby	will	be	at	5.8	kps.
Care	to	summarize?
First,	we’re	going	to	add	fuel.	The	MAV	makes	its	own	fuel	from	the
 Martian	atmosphere,	but	it’s	limited	by	how	much	hydrogen	it	has.	It	brought
 enough	to	make	19,397	kilograms	of	fuel,	as	it	was	designed	to	do.	If	we	can
 give	it	more	hydrogen,	it	can	make	more.
How	much	more?
For	every	kilogram	of	hydrogen,	it	can	make	thirteen	kilograms	of	fuel.
 Watney	has	five	hundred	and	fifty	liters	of	water.	We’ll	have	him	electrolyze	it
 to	get	sixty	kilograms	of	hydrogen.
The	fuel	plant	can	make	seven	hundred	and
 eighty	kilograms	of	fuel	from	that.
If	he	electrolyzes	his	water,	what’ll	he	drink?
He	only	needs	fifty	liters	for	the	time	he	has	left.	And	a	human	body	only
 borrows	water.	We’ll	have	him	electrolyze	his	urine,	too.	We	need	all	the
hydrogen	we	can	get	our	hands	on.
I	see.	And	what	does	seven	hundred	and	eighty	kilograms	of	fuel	buy	us?
It	buys	us	300	kilograms	of	payload.	It’s	all	about	fuel	versus	payload.	The
 MAV’s	launch	weight	is	over	12,600	kilograms.	Even	with	the	bonus	fuel,	we’ll
 need	to	get	that	down	to	7,300	kilograms.	So	the	rest	of	this	booklet	is	how	to
 remove	over	5,000	kilograms	from	the	ship.
Walk	me	through	it.
There	were
 some	gimmes	right	off	the	bat.	The	design	presumes	five	hundred	kilograms	of
 Martian	soil	and	rock	samples.	Obviously	we	won’t	do	that.	Also,	there’s	just
 one	passenger	instead	of	six.	That	saves	five	hundred	kilograms	when	you
 consider	their	weight	plus	their	suits	and	gear.	And	we	can	lose	the	other	five
 acceleration	chairs.	And	of	course,	we’ll	remove	all	nonessential	gear—the	med
 kit,	tool	kit,	internal	harnessing,	straps,	and	anything	else	that	isn’t	nailed	down.
 And	some	stuff	that	is.
 “Next	up,
We’re	ditching	all	life	support.	The	tanks,	pumps,
 heaters,	air	lines,	CO2	absorption	system,	even	the	insulation	on	the	inner	side	of
 the	hull.	We	don’t	need	it.	We’ll	have	Watney	wear	his	EVA	suit	for	the	whole
 trip.
Won’t	that	make	it	awkward	for	him	to	use	the	controls?
He	won’t	be	using	them,
Major	Martinez	will	pilot	the	MAV
 remotely	from	Hermes.	It’s	already	designed	for	remote	piloting.	It	was	remotely
 landed,	after	all.
What	if	something	goes	wrong?
Martinez	is	the	best	trained	pilot,
If	there	is	an	emergency,	he’s
 the	guy	you	want	controlling	the	ship.
Hmm,
We’ve	never	had	a	manned	ship	controlled
 remotely	before.	But	okay,	go	on.
Since	Watney	won’t	be	flying	the	ship,
he	won’t	need	the
 controls.	We’ll	ditch	the	control	panels	and	all	the	power	and	data	lines	that	lead
 to	them.
Wow,
We’re	really	gutting	this	thing.
I’m	just	getting	started,
The	power	needs	will	be	dramatically
 reduced	now	that	life	support	is	gone,	so	we’ll	dump	three	of	the	five	batteries
and	the	auxiliary	power	system.	The	orbital	maneuvering	system	has	three
 redundant	thrusters.	We’ll	get	rid	of	those.	Also,	the	secondary	and	tertiary
 comm	systems	can	go.
Wait,	what?
You’re	going	to	have	a	remote
controlled	ascent	with	no	backup	comm	systems?
No	point,
If	the	comm	system	goes	out	during	ascent,	the	time
 it	takes	to	reacquire	will	be	too	long	to	do	any	good.	The	backups	don’t	help	us.
This	is	getting	really	risky,	Bruce.
I	know.	There’s	just	no	other	way.	And	I’m	not	even	to	the
 nasty	stuff	yet.
By	all	means,	tell	me	the	nasty	stuff.
We’ll	remove	the	nose	airlock,	the	windows,	and	Hull	Panel	Nineteen.
You’re	taking	the	front	of	the	ship	off?
Sure,
The	nose	airlock	alone	is	four	hundred	kilograms.	The
 windows	are	pretty	damn	heavy,	too.	And	they’re	connected	by	Hull	Panel
 Nineteen,	so	may	as	well	take	that,	too.
So	he’s	going	to	launch	with	a	big	hole	in	the	front	of	the	ship?
We’ll	have	him	cover	it	with	Hab	canvas.
Hab	canvas?	For	a	launch	to	orbit!?
The	hull’s	mostly	there	to	keep	the	air	in.	Mars’s
 atmosphere	is	so	thin	you	don’t	need	a	lot	of	streamlining.	By	the	time	the	ship’s
 going	fast	enough	for	air	resistance	to	matter,	it’ll	be	high	enough	that	there’s
 practically	no	air.	We’ve	run	all	the	simulations.	Should	be	good.
You’re	sending	him	to	space	under	a	tarp.
Pretty	much,	yeah.
Like	a	hastily	loaded	pickup	truck.
Yeah.	Can	I	go	on?
Sure,	can’t	wait.
We’ll	also	have	him	remove	the	back	panel	of	the	pressure	vessel.	It’s	the
 only	other	panel	he	can	remove	with	the	tools	on	hand.	Also,	we’re	getting	rid	of
 the	auxiliary	fuel	pump.	Sad	to	see	it	go,	but	it	weighs	too	much	for	its
 usefulness.	And	we’re	nixing	a	Stage	One	engine.
An	engine?
Yeah.	The	Stage	One	booster	works	fine	if	one	engine	goes	out.	It’ll	save	us
a	huge	amount	of	weight.	Only	during	the	Stage	One	ascent,	but	still.	Pretty
 good	fuel	savings.
That	it?
Yeah.
You’ve	removed	most	of	the	safety	backups.	What’s	this	do
 to	the	estimated	odds	of	failure?
It’s	about	four	percent.
Jesus	Christ,
Normally	we’d	never	even	consider	something
 that	risky.
It’s	all	we’ve	got,	Venk,
We’ve	tested	it	all	out	and	run
 simulations	galore.	We	should	be	okay	if	everything	works	the	way	it’s
 supposed	to.
Yeah.	Great,
workshop.
safety	first.
YOU	KILLED	Watney,
Yeah,
Collision	with
 Terrain
I	pulled	a	nasty	trick	on	him,
I	gave	him	a	malfunctioning
 altitude	readout	and	made	Engine	Three	cut	out	too	early.	It’s	a	deadly
 combination.
Shouldn’t	have	been	a	mission	failure,
I	should	have
 noticed	the	readout	was	wrong.	It	was	way	off.
Don’t	sweat	it,
That’s	why	we	drill.
Aye,	Commander,
Don’t	beat	yourself	up,
They	only	gave	you	two	days	of	remote
 launch	training.	It	was	only	supposed	to	happen	if	we	aborted	before	landing;	a
 cut-our-losses	scenario	where	we’d	launch	the	MAV	to	act	as	a	satellite.	It
 wasn’t	mission-critical	so	they	didn’t	drill	you	too	hard	on	it.	Now	that	Mark’s
 life	depends	on	it,	you’ve	got	three	weeks	to	get	it	right,	and	I	have	no	doubt	you
 can	do	it.
Aye,	Commander,
Resetting	the	sim,
Anything	specific	you	want	to	try?
Surprise	me,
up
Commander?
How	are	the	engines?
All	working	within	tolerance,
I	am	now	doing	a	diagnostic	on
 the	reactor.	I	am	thinking	that	Johanssen	is	busy	with	the	launching	training.	So
 perhaps	I	do	this	diagnostic	for	her.
Good	idea,
And	how’s	our	course?
All	is	well,
No	adjustments	necessary.	We	are	still	on	track	to
 planned	trajectory	within	four	meters.
Keep	me	posted	if	anything	changes.
Ja,	Commander.
down.
Heya,	Commander.	What’s	up?
I’d	like	to	know	your	plan	for	recovering	Mark.
Easy	enough	if	the	intercept	is	good,
I	just	finished	attaching	all
 the	tethers	we	have	into	one	long	line.	It’s	two	hundred	and	fourteen	meters
 long.	I’ll	have	the	MMU	pack	on,	so	moving	around	will	be	easy.	I	can	get	going
 up	to	around	ten	meters	per	second	safely.	Any	more,	and	I	risk	breaking	the
 tether	if	I	can’t	stop	in	time.
Once	you	get	to	Mark,	how	fast	a	relative	velocity	can	you	handle?
I	can	grab	the	MAV	easily	at	five	meters	per	second.	Ten	meters	per	second
 is	kind	of	like	jumping	onto	a	moving	train.	Anything	more	than	that	and	I	might
 miss.
So,	including	the	MMU	safe	speed,	we	need	to	get	the	ship	within	twenty
 meters	per	second	of	his	velocity.
And	the	intercept	has	to	be	within	two	hundred	and	fourteen	meters,
Pretty	narrow	margin	of	error.
We’ve	got	a	lot	of	leeway,
The	launch	will	be	fifty-two
 minutes	before	the	intercept,	and	it	takes	twelve	minutes.	As	soon	as	Mark’s	S2
 engine	cuts	out,	we’ll	know	our	intercept	point	and	velocity.	If	we	don’t	like	it,
 we’ll	have	forty	minutes	to	correct.	Our	engine’s	two	millimeters	per	second
 may	not	seem	like	much,	but	in	forty	minutes	it	can	move	us	up	to	5.7
 kilometers.
Good,
And	two	hundred	and	fourteen	meters	isn’t	a	hard	limit,
 per	se.
Yes	it	is,
Nah,
I	know	I’m	not	supposed	to	go	untethered,	but	without	my
 leash	I	could	get	way	out	there—
Not	an	option.
But	we	could	double	or	even	triple	our	safe	intercept	range—
We’re	done	talking	about	this,
Aye,	Commander.
ALL	RIGHT,
tomorrow’s	the	big	day.
I’m	ready,
Johanssen	threw	everything	she	could	at	me.	I
 got	all	scenarios	to	orbit.
Everything	other	than	catastrophic	failures,
Well	yeah,
Kind	of	pointless	to	simulate	an	ascent
 explosion.	Nothing	we	can	do.
Vogel,
How’s	our	course?
It	is	perfect,
We	are	within	one	meter	of	projected	path	and
 two	centimeters	per	second	of	projected	velocity.
Good,
Beck,	how	about	you?
Everything’s	all	set	up,	Commander,
The	tethers	are	linked	and
 spooled	in	Airlock	2.	My	suit	and	MMU	are	prepped	and	ready.
Okay,	the	battle	plan	is	pretty	obvious,
Martinez	will	fly	the	MAV,
 Johanssen	will	sysop	the	ascent.	Beck	and	Vogel,	I	want	you	in	Airlock	2	with
 the	outer	door	open	before	the	MAV	even	launches.	You’ll	have	to	wait	fifty
two	minutes,	but	I	don’t	want	to	risk	any	technical	glitches	with	the	airlock	or
 your	suits.	Once	we	reach	intercept,	it’ll	be	Beck’s	job	to	get	Watney.
He	might	be	in	bad	shape	when	I	get	him,
The	stripped-down
 MAV	will	get	up	to	twelve	g’s	during	the	launch.	He	could	be	unconscious	and
 may	even	have	internal	bleeding.
Just	as	well	you’re	our	doctor,
Vogel,	if	all	goes	according	to
 plan,	you’re	pulling	Beck	and	Watney	back	aboard	with	the	tether.	If	things	go
 wrong,	you’re	Beck’s	backup.
Ja,
I	wish	there	was	more	we	could	do	right	now,
But	all	we	have
 left	is	the	wait.	Your	work	schedules	are	cleared.	All	scientific	experiments	are
 suspended.	Sleep	if	you	can,	run	diagnostics	on	your	equipment	if	you	can’t.
We’ll	get	him,	Commander,
Twenty-four	hours	from	now,	Mark	Watney	will	be	right	here	in	this	room.
Let’s	hope	so,	Major,
FINAL	CHECKS	for	this	shift	are	complete,
Timekeeper.
Go,	Flight,
Time	until	MAV	launch?
Sixteen	hours,	nine	minutes,	forty	seconds…mark.
Copy	that.	All	stations:	Flight	director	shift	change.
All	stations,	Flight
 director	is	now	Brendan	Hutch.
Call	me	if	anything	happens,
If	not,	I’ll	see	you	tomorrow.
Get	some	sleep,	Boss,
Why	ask	the	timekeeper?
It’s	on	the	huge	mission	clock	in	the	center	screen.
He’s	nervous,
You	don’t	often	see	it,	but	that’s	what	Mitch
 Henderson	looks	like	when	he’s	nervous.	He	double-	and	triple-checks
 everything.
Fair	enough,
They’re	camping	out	on	the	lawn,	by	the	way,
Reporters	from
 all	over	the	world.	Our	press	rooms	just	don’t	have	enough	space.
The	media	loves	a	drama.
It’ll	be	over	tomorrow,	one	way	or
 another.
What’s	our	role	in	all	this?
If	something	goes	wrong,	what	can
 Mission	Control	do?
Nothing,
Not	a	damned	thing.
Nothing?
It’s	all	happening	twelve	light-minutes	away.	That	means	it	takes	twenty
four	minutes	for	them	to	get	the	answer	to	any	question	they	ask.	The	whole
 launch	is	twelve	minutes	long.	They’re	on	their	own.
So	we’re	completely	helpless?
Yes,
Sucks,	doesn’t	it?
awaiting	launch	instructions.
Fuel	pressure	green,
Engine	alignment	perfect.	Communications	five	by	five.	We	are	ready	for
 preflight	checklist,	Commander.
Copy.
CAPCOM.
Go,
Guidance.
Go,
Remote	Command.
Go,
Pilot.
Go,
Telemetry,
Go,
Recovery,
Go,
Secondary	Recovery.
Go,
Mission	Control,	this	is	Hermes	Actual,
We	are	go	for
 launch	and	will	proceed	on	schedule.	We	are	T	minus	four	minutes,	ten	seconds
 to	launch…mark.
Did	you	get	that,	Timekeeper?
Affirmative,	Flight
Our	clocks	are	synched	with	theirs.
Not	that	we	can	do	anything,
but	at	least	we’ll	know
 what’s	supposedly	happening.
ABOUT	FOUR	minutes,	Mark,
How	you	doing	down
 there?
Eager	to	get	up	there,	Commander,
We’re	going	to	make	that	happen,
Remember,	you’ll	be
 pulling	some	pretty	heavy	g’s.	It’s	okay	to	pass	out.	You’re	in	Martinez’s
 hands.
Tell	that	asshole	no	barrel	rolls.
Copy	that,	MAV,
Four	more	minutes,
You	ready	for
 some	flying,	Beth?
Yeah,
It’ll	be	strange	to	sysop	a	launch	and	stay	in	zero-g
 the	whole	time.
I	hadn’t	thought	of	it	that	way,
but	yeah.	I’m	not	going	to	be
 squashed	against	the	back	of	my	seat.	Weird.
Didn’t	think	I’d	be	back	here	again,
Yes,
We	are	the	first.
First	what?
We	are	the	first	to	visit	Mars	twice.
Oh	yeah.	Even	Watney	can’t	say	that.
He	cannot.
Vogel,
Ja.
If	I	can’t	reach	Mark,	I	want	you	to	release	my	tether.
Dr.	Beck,
the	commander	has	said	no	to	this.
I	know	what	the	commander	said,	but	if	I	need	a	few	more	meters,	I	want
 you	to	cut	me	loose.	I	have	an	MMU,	I	can	get	back	without	a	tether.
I	will	not	do	this,	Dr.	Beck.
It’s	my	own	life	at	risk,	and	I	say	it’s	okay.
You	are	not	the	commander.
Fine,
But	I	bet	you’ll	change	your	mind	if	push	comes	to
 shove.
T-MINUS	TEN,
nine…eight…
Main	engines	start,
…seven…six…five…Mooring	clamps	released…
About	five	seconds,	Watney,
Hang	on.
See	you	in	a	few,	Commander,
…four…three…two…
Hmm,
I	wonder	how	much	longer—
VELOCITY	SEVEN	hundred	and	forty-one	meters	per	second,
Altitude	thirteen	hundred	and	fifty	meters.
Copy,
That’s	low,
Too	low.
I	know,
It’s	sluggish;	fighting	me.	What	the	fuck	is	going
 on?
Velocity	eight	hundred	and	fifty,	altitude	eighteen	hundred	and	forty-three,
I’m	not	getting	the	power	I	need!
Engine	power	at	a	hundred	percent,
I’m	telling	you	it’s	sluggish,
Watney,
Watney,	do	you	read?	Can	you	report?
That’s	nice,
That’s	nice,	too,
I’M	GETTING	more	response	now,
Back	on	track	with	full	acceleration,
Must	have	been	drag.
 MAV’s	out	of	the	atmosphere	now.
It	was	like	flying	a	cow,
Can	you	get	him	up?
He’ll	get	to	orbit,
but	the	intercept	course	may	be
 compromised.
Get	him	up	first,
Then	we’ll	worry	about	intercept.
Copy.	Main	engine	cutoff	in	fifteen	seconds.
Totally	smooth	now,
It’s	not	fighting	me	at	all	anymore.
Well	below	target	altitude,
Velocity	is	good.
How	far	below?
Can’t	say	for	sure,
All	I	have	is	accelerometer	data.	We’ll
 need	radar	pings	at	intervals	to	work	out	his	true	final	orbit.
Back	to	automatic	guidance,
Main	shutdown	in	four,
…three…two…one…Shutdown.
Confirm	shutdown,
Watney,	you	there?
Watney?	Watney,	do	you	read?
Probably	passed	out,	Commander,
He	pulled
 twelve	g’s	on	the	ascent.	Give	him	a	few	minutes.
Copy,
Johanssen,	got	his	orbit	yet?
I	have	interval	pings.	Working	out	our	intercept	range	and	velocity…
Intercept	velocity	will	be	eleven	meters	per	second…,
I	can	make	that	work,
Distance	at	intercept	will	be—
We’ll	be	sixty-eight	kilometers	apart.
Did	she	say	sixty-eight	kilometers!?
Kilometers!?
God	damn	it,
Keep	it	together,
Work	the	problem.	Martinez,	is	there	any
 juice	in	the	MAV?
Negative,	Commander,
They	ditched	the	OMS
 system	to	lighten	the	launch	weight.
Then	we’ll	have	to	go	to	him.	Johanssen,	time	to	intercept?
Thirty-nine	minutes,	twelve	seconds,
Vogel,
how	far	can	we	deflect	in	thirty-nine	minutes	with
 the	ion	engines?
Perhaps	five	kilometers,
Not	enough,
Martinez,	what	if	we	point	our	attitude	thrusters
all	the	same	direction?
Depends	on	how	much	fuel	we	want	to	save	for	attitude	adjustments	on	the
 trip	home.
How	much	do	you	need?
I	could	get	by	with	maybe	twenty	percent	of	what’s	left.
All	right,	if	you	used	the	other	eighty	percent—
Checking,
We’d	get	a
 delta-v	of	thirty-one	meters	per	second.
Johanssen,
Math.
In	thirty-nine	minutes	we’d	deflect…,
seventy
two	kilometers!
There	we	go,
How	much	fuel—
Use	seventy-five	point	five	percent	of	remaining	attitude	adjust	fuel,
That’ll	bring	the	intercept	range	to	zero.
Do	it,
Aye,	Commander,
Hold	on,
That’ll	get	the	intercept	range	to	zero,	but	the
 intercept	velocity	will	be	forty-two	meters	per	second.
Then	we	have	thirty-nine	minutes	to	figure	out	how	to	slow	down,
Martinez,	burn	the	jets.
Aye,
WHOA,
A	lot	of	shit	just	happened	really	fast.	Explain.
The	launch	missed	badly,
The	intercept	distance	was	going	to	be	way	too	big.	So	they’re	using
 the	attitude	adjusters	to	close	the	gap.
What	do	attitude	adjusters	usually	do?
They	rotate	the	ship.	They’re	not	made	for	thrusting	it.	Hermes	doesn’t	have
quick-reaction	engines.	Just	the	slow,	steady	ion	engines.
So…problem	solved?
No,
They’ll	get	to	him,	but	they’ll	be	going	forty-two	meters
 per	second	when	they	get	there.
How	fast	is	that?
About	ninety	miles	per	hour,
There’s	no	hope	of	Beck
 grabbing	Watney	at	that	speed.
Can	they	use	the	attitude	adjusters	to	slow	down?
They	needed	a	lot	of	velocity	to	close	the	gap	in	time.	They	used	all	the	fuel
 they	could	spare	to	get	going	fast	enough.	But	now	they	don’t	have	enough	fuel
 to	slow	down.
So	what	can	they	do?
I	don’t	know,
And	even	if	I	did,	I	couldn’t	tell	them	in	time.
Well	fuck,
Yeah,
WATNEY,
Do	you	read?…Watney?
Commander,
He’s	wearing	a	surface	EVA	suit,	right?
Yeah.
It	should	have	a	bio-monitor,
And	it’ll	be	broadcasting.	It’s	not
 a	strong	signal;	it’s	only	designed	to	go	a	couple	hundred	meters	to	the	rover	or
 Hab.	But	maybe	we	can	pick	it	up.
Johanssen,
On	it,
I	have	to	look	up	the	frequencies	in	the	tech	specs.
 Gimme	a	second.
Martinez,
Any	idea	how	to	slow	down?
I	got	nothin’,	Commander.	We’re	just	going	too	damn
 fast.
Vogel?
The	ion	drive	is	simply	not	strong	enough,
There’s	got	to	be	something,
Something	we	can	do.	Anything.
Got	his	bio-monitor	data,
Pulse	fifty-eight,	blood	pressure
 ninety-eight	over	sixty-one.
That’s	not	bad,
Lower	than	I’d	like,	but	he’s	been	in	Mars
 gravity	for	eighteen	months,	so	it’s	expected.
Time	to	intercept?
Thirty-two	minutes,
Fuck	you,
MAV	to	Hermes.
Watney!?
Affirmative.	That	you,	Commander?
Affirmative.	What’s	your	status?
I’m	on	a	ship	with	no	control	panel,
That’s	as	much	as	I	can	tell
 you.
How	do	you	feel?
My	chest	hurts.	I	think	I	broke	a	rib.	How	are	you?
We’re	working	on	getting	you,
There	was	a	complication	in
 the	launch.
Yeah,
The	canvas	didn’t
 hold.	I	think	it	ripped	early	in	the	ascent.
That’s	consistent	with	what	we	saw	during	the	launch.
How	bad	is	it,	Commander?
We	were	able	to	correct	the	intercept	range	with	Hermes’s	attitude	thrusters.
But	there’s	a	problem	with	the	intercept	velocity.
How	big	a	problem.
Forty-two	meters	per	second.
Well	shit.
HEY,	AT	least	he’s	okay	for	the	moment,
Beck,
I’m	coming	around	to	your	way	of	thinking.	How	fast
 can	you	get	going	if	you’re	untethered?
Sorry,	Commander,
I	already	ran	the	numbers.	At	best	I	could
 get	twenty-five	meters	per	second.	Even	if	I	could	get	to	forty-two,	I’d	need
 another	forty-two	to	match	Hermes	when	I	came	back.
Copy,
Hey,
I’ve	got	an	idea.
Of	course	you	do,
What	do	you	got?
I	could	find	something	sharp	in	here	and	poke	a	hole	in	the	glove	of	my	EVA
 suit.	I	could	use	the	escaping	air	as	a	thruster	and	fly	my	way	to	you.	The	source
 of	thrust	would	be	on	my	arm,	so	I’d	be	able	to	direct	it	pretty	easily.
How	does	he	come	up	with	this	shit?
Hmm,
Could	you	get	forty-two	meters	per	second	that	way?
No	idea,
I	can’t	see	you	having	any	control	if	you	did	that,
You’d	be
 eyeballing	the	intercept	and	using	a	thrust	vector	you	can	barely	control.
I	admit	it’s	fatally	dangerous,
But	consider	this:	I’d	get	to	fly
 around	like	Iron	Man.
We’ll	keep	working	on	ideas,
Iron	Man,	Commander.	Iron	Man.
Stand	by,
Hmm…Maybe	it’s	not	such	a	bad	idea.…
You	kidding,	Commander?
It’s	a	terrible	idea.	He’d	shoot
 off	into	space—
Not	the	whole	idea,	but	part	of	it,
Using	atmosphere	as	thrust.
Martinez,	get	Vogel’s	station	up	and	running.
Okay,
It’s	up.	What	do	you	need?
Vogel’s	got	software	for	calculating	course	offsets	caused	by	hull	breaches,
 right?
Yeah,
It	estimates	course	corrections	needed	in	the	event	of
 —
Yeah,	yeah,
Fire	it	up.	I	want	to	know	what	happens	if	we
 blow	the	VAL.
Um.	Yes,	Commander,
The	vehicular	airlock?
You	want	to…open	it?
Plenty	of	air	in	the	ship,
It’d	give	us	a	good	kick.
Ye-es…,
And	it	might	blow
 the	nose	of	the	ship	off	in	the	process.
Also,	all	the	air	would	leave,
We’ll	seal	the	bridge	and	reactor	room.	We	can	let	everywhere	else	go
 vacuo,	but	we	don’t	want	explosive	decompression	in	here	or	near	the	reactor.
I	think	we’ll	just	have	the
 same	problem	as	Watney,	but	on	a	larger	scale.	We	can’t	direct	that	thrust.
We	don’t	have	to,
The	VAL	is	in	the	nose.	Escaping	air	would
 make	a	thrust	vector	through	our	center	of	mass.	We	just	need	to	point	the	ship
 directly	away	from	where	we	want	to	go.
Okay,	I	have	the	numbers,
A	breach	at	the	VAL,	with	the
 bridge	and	reactor	room	sealed	off,	would	accelerate	us	twenty-nine	meters	per
 second.
We’d	have	a	relative	velocity	of	thirteen	meters	per	second	afterward,
Beck,
Have	you	been	hearing	all	this?
Affirmative,	Commander,
Can	you	do	thirteen	meters	per	second?
It’ll	be	risky,
Thirteen	to	match	the	MAV,	then	another
 thirteen	to	match	Hermes.	But	it’s	a	hell	of	a	lot	better	than	forty-two.
Johanssen,
Time	to	intercept?
Eighteen	minutes,	Commander.
What	kind	of	jolt	will	we	feel	with	that	breach?
The	air	will	take	four	seconds	to	evacuate,
We’ll	feel	a	little	less
 than	one	g.
Watney,
we	have	a	plan.
Yay!	A	plan!
HOUSTON,
Be	advised	we	are
 going	to	deliberately	breach	the	VAL	to	produce	thrust.
What?
What!?
Oh…my	god,
Fuck	me	raw,
I	better	get	to	the	press	room.	Any
 parting	knowledge	before	I	go?
They’re	going	to	breach	the	ship,
They’re
 going	to	deliberately	breach	the	ship.	Oh	my	god…
Got	it,
HOW	WILL	we	open	the	airlock	doors?
There’s	no	way	to	open
 them	remotely,	and	if	anyone’s	nearby	when	it	blows—
Right,
We	can	open	one	door	with	the	other	shut,	but	how	do
 we	open	the	other?
Vogel,
I	need	you	to	come	back	in
 and	make	a	bomb.
Um.	Again,	please,	Commander?
A	bomb,
You’re	a	chemist.	Can	you	make	a	bomb	out	of
 stuff	on	board?
Ja,
We	have	flammables	and	pure	oxygen.
Sounds	good,
It	is	of	course	dangerous	to	set	off	an	explosive	device	on	a	spacecraft,
So	make	it	small,
It	just	needs	to	poke	a	hole	in	the	inner
 airlock	door.	Any	hole	will	do.	If	it	blows	the	door	off,	that’s	fine.	If	it	doesn’t,
 the	air	will	get	out	slower,	but	for	longer.	The	momentum	change	is	the	same,
 and	we’ll	get	the	acceleration	we	need.
Pressurizing	Airlock	2,
How	will	we	activate	this	bomb?
Johanssen?
Uh…,
Vogel,	can	you	run	wires	into	it?
Ja,
I	will	use	threaded	stopper	with	a	small	hole	for	the	wires.
 It	will	have	little	effect	on	the	seal.
We	could	run	the	wire	to	Lighting	Panel	41,
It’s	next	to	the
 airlock,	and	I	can	turn	it	on	and	off	from	here.
There’s	our	remote	trigger,
Johanssen,	go	set	up	the	lighting
 panel.	Vogel,	get	in	here	and	make	the	bomb.	Martinez,	go	close	and	seal	the
 doors	to	the	reactor	room.
Yes,	Commander,
Commander,
you	want	me	to	bring	back
 some	space	suits?
No	point,
If	the	seal	on	the	bridge	doesn’t	hold,	we’ll	get
 sucked	out	at	close	to	the	speed	of	sound.	We’ll	be	jelly	with	or	without	suits
 on.
Hey,	Martinez,
Can	you	move	my	lab	mice
 somewhere	safe?	They’re	in	the	bio	lab.	It’s	just	one	cage.
Copy,	Beck,
I’ll	move	them	to	the	reactor	room.
Are	you	back	in	yet,	Vogel?
I	am	just	reentering	now,	Commander.
Beck,
I’ll	need	you	back	in,	too.	But	don’t	take
 your	suit	off.
Okay,
Why?
We’re	going	to	have	to	literally	blow	up	one	of	the	doors,
I’d	rather	we	kill	the	inner	one.	I	want	the	outer	door	unharmed,	so	we	keep	our
smooth	aerobraking	shape.
Makes	sense,
One	problem,
I	want	the	outer	door	locked	in	the	fully	open
 position	with	the	mechanical	stopper	in	place	to	keep	it	from	being	trashed	by
 the	decompress.
You	have	to	have	someone	in	the	airlock	to	do	that,
And	you
 can’t	open	the	inner	door	if	the	outer	door	is	locked	open.
Right,
So	I	need	you	to	come	back	inside,	depressurize	the
 VAL,	and	lock	the	outer	door	open.	Then	you’ll	need	to	crawl	along	the	hull	to
 get	back	to	Airlock	2.
Copy,	Commander,
There	are	latch	points	all	over	the	hull.	I’ll
 move	my	tether	along,	mountain	climber	style.
Get	to	it,
And	Vogel,	you’re	in	a	hurry.	You	have	to	make	the
 bomb,	set	it	up,	get	back	to	Airlock	2,	suit	up,	depressurize	it,	and	open	the	outer
 door,	so	Beck	can	get	back	in	when	he’s	done.
He’s	taking	his	suit	off	right	now	and	can’t	reply,
but	he
 heard	the	order.
Watney,	how	you	doing?
Fine	so	far,	Commander,
You	mentioned	a	plan?
Affirmative,
We’re	going	to	vent	atmosphere	to	get	thrust.
How?
We’re	going	to	blow	a	hole	in	the	VAL.
What!?
How!?
Vogel’s	making	a	bomb.
I	knew	that	guy	was	a	mad	scientist!
I	think	we	should	just	go
 with	my	Iron	Man	idea.
That’s	too	risky,	and	you	know	it,
Thing	is,
I’m	selfish.	I	want	the	memorials	back	home	to	be
 just	for	me.	I	don’t	want	the	rest	of	you	losers	in	them.	I	can’t	let	you	guys	blow
 the	VAL.
Oh,
well	if	you	won’t	let	us	then—	Wait…wait	a	minute.…
 I’m	looking	at	my	shoulder	patch	and	it	turns	out	I’m	the	commander.	Sit	tight.
 We’re	coming	to	get	you.
Smart-ass.
Sehr	gefährlich,
Sehr,	sehr,	gefährlich.
Be	careful	crawling	along	the	hull.
Be	careful	setting	up	the	bomb.
That	was	stupid.
 Don’t	tell	anyone	I	did	that.
Don’t	tell	anyone	I	liked	it.
I	have	used	a	single	wire	for	igniting,
I	did	not	want	to	risk
 two	wires	for	a	spark.	It	would	be	dangerous	to	us	if	we	had	static	while	setting
 up.
How	do	we	set	it	off?
The	wire	must	reach	a	high	temperature.	If	you	short	power	through	it,	that
 will	be	sufficient.
I’ll	have	to	pin	the	breaker,
but	it’ll	work.
Excuse	me,
I	have	to	return	to	Airlock	2	to	let	Dr.	Beck	back
 in.
Mm,
I	had	a	few	minutes,	so	I	ran	through
 the	aerobrake	lockdown	checklist	for	the	reactor	room.	Everything’s	ready	for
 acceleration	and	the	compartment’s	sealed	off.
Good	thinking,
Prep	the	attitude	correction.
Roger,	Commander,
The	VAL’s	propped	open,
Starting	my
 traverse	across	the	hull.
Copy,
This	calculation	is	tricky,
I	need	to	do	everything	backward.
 The	VAL’s	in	front,	so	the	source	of	thrust	will	be	exactly	opposite	to	our
 engines.	Our	software	wasn’t	expecting	us	to	have	an	engine	there.	I	just	need	to
tell	it	we	plan	to	thrust	toward	Mark.
Take	your	time	and	get	it	right,
And	don’t	execute	till	I	give
 you	the	word.	We’re	not	spinning	the	ship	around	while	Beck’s	out	on	the	hull.
Roger,
Okay,	the	adjustment’s	ready	to
 execute.
Stand	by,
’Bout	time,
Sorry	for	the	delay,
I	was	required	to	make	a	bomb.
This	has	been	kind	of	a	weird	day,
Commander,	Vogel	and	I	are
 in	position.
Copy
Get	up	against	the	fore	wall	of	the	airlock.	It’s
 going	to	be	about	one	g	for	four	seconds.	Make	sure	you’re	both	tethered	in.
Copy,
OKAY,	MARTINEZ,
point	us	the	right	direction.
Copy,
The	bomb’s	ready,	and	the
 breaker’s	jammed	closed,
I	can	set	it	off	by	remotely	turning	on
 Lighting	Panel	41.
Seal	the	bridge	and	get	to	your	station,
Copy,
Increasing	bridge	pressure	to	1.03
 atmospheres.…	Pressure	is	steady.	We	have	a	good	seal.
Copy,
Time	to	intercept?
Twenty-eight	seconds,
Wow,
We	cut	that	pretty	close.
You	ready,	Johanssen?
Yes,
All	I	have	to	do	is	hit	enter.
Martinez,	how’s	our	angle?
Dead-on,	Commander,
Strap	in,
Twenty	seconds,
What’s	the	status?
Fifteen	seconds	till	they	blow	the	VAL,
Where	have	you
 been?
On	the	phone	with	the	President,
Do	you	think	this	will
 work?
I	have	no	idea,
I’ve	never	felt	this	helpless	in	my	life.
If	it’s	any	consolation,
pretty	much	everyone	in	the	world	feels
 the	same	way.
…FIVE…four…three…,
Brace	for	acceleration,
…two…one…,
Activating	Lighting	Panel	41.
Reactor	room	still	pressurized,
Bridge	seal	holding,
Obviously.
Damage?
Not	sure	yet,
I	have	External	Camera	4	pointed	along	the
 nose.	I	don’t	see	any	problems	with	the	hull	near	the	VAL.
Worry	about	that	later,
What’s	our	relative	velocity	and
 distance	to	MAV?
We’ll	get	within	twenty-two	meters	and	we’re	at
 twelve	meters	per	second.	We	actually	got	better	than	expected	thrust.
Watney,
it	worked.	Beck’s	on	his	way.
Score!
Beck,
you’re	up.	Twelve	meters	per	second.
Close	enough!
I’M	GOING	to	jump	out,
Should	get	me	another	two	or	three	meters
 per	second.
Understood,
Good	luck,	Dr.
 Beck.
I	have	visual!
I	can	see	the	MAV!
Jesus,	Mark,	what	did	you	do	to	that	thing?
You	should	see	what	I	did	to	the	rover,
Johanssen,
you	got	me	on	radar?
Affirmative,
Call	out	my	relative	velocity	to	Mark	every	two	seconds	or	so.
Copy.	Five	point	two	meters	per	second.
Hey	Beck,
the	front’s	wide	open.	I’ll	get	up	there	and	be
 ready	to	grab	at	you.
Negative,
No	untethered	movement.	Stay	strapped	to
 your	chair	until	you’re	latched	to	Beck.
Copy,
Three	point	one	meters	per	second,
Going	to	coast	for	a	bit,
Gotta	catch	up	before	I	slow	it	down.
Eleven	meters	to	target,
Copy.
Six	meters,
Aaaaand	counter-thrusting,
Velocity?
One	point	one	meters	per	second,
Good	enough,
I’m	drifting	toward	it.	I	think
 I	can	get	my	hand	on	some	of	the	torn	canvas.…
Contact,
Firm	contact!
Dr.	Beck,
we	have	passed	closest	approach	point	and	you	are
 now	getting	further	away.	You	have	one	hundred	and	sixty-nine	meters	of	tether
 left.	Enough	for	fourteen	seconds.
Copy,
Visual	on	Watney!
Visual	on	Beck!
How	ya	doin’,	man?
I…I	just…
Give	me	a	minute.	You’re	the	first	person	I’ve
 seen	in	eighteen	months.
We	don’t	have	a	minute,
We’ve	got	eleven
 seconds	before	we	run	out	of	tether.
Contact
 with	Watney!
Eight	seconds,	Dr.	Beck,
Copy,
Connected,
Restraints	off.
We’re	outa	here,
We’re	out,
Five	seconds,
Relative	velocity	to	Hermes:	twelve	meters	per	second,
Thrusting,
That’s	it	for	the	fuel,
Velocity?
Five	meters	per	second,
Stand	by,
Velocity	zero!
Reel	’em	in,	Vogel,
Copy,
Aboard!
Airlock	2	outer	door	closed,
Yes!
Copy,
Houston,	this	is	Hermes	Actual.	Six
 crew	safely	aboard.
Thank	the	gods.
Annie	will	be
 wanting	me	in	the	press	room.
Guess	you	don’t	need	the	red	folder	today,
Honestly,	I	didn’t	make	one.
Good	work,
 Venk.	Now,	get	them	home.
687
sick	bay
