t be gotten away from. They called it
 Old Sparky, or the Big Juicy. They made cracks about the power bill, and
 how Warden Moores would cook his Thanksgiving dinner that fall, with his
 wife, Melinda, too sick to cook.
 But for the ones who actually had to sit down in that chair, the humor went
 out of the situation in a hurry. I presided over seventy-eight executions during
 my time at Cold Mountain (that
ve never been confused about;
 I
Old Sparky's
s clients came to a knowledge of their deaths from the
 ankles up. There was a black silk bag that went over their heads after they
 had finished their rambling and mostly disjointed last remarks. It was
 supposed to be for them, but I always thought: it was really for us, to keep us
 from seeing the awful tide of dismay in their eyes as they realized they were
 going to die with their knees bent.
 There was no death row at Cold Mountain, only E Block, set apart from the
 other four and about a quarter their size, brick instead of wood, with a
 horrible bare metal roof that glared in the summer sun like a delirious eyeball.
 Six cells inside, three on each side of a wide center aisle, each almost twice
 as big as the cells in the other four blocks. Singles, too. Great
 accommodations for a prison (especially in the thirties), but the inmates
would have traded for cells in any of the other four. Believe me, they would
 have traded.
 There was never a time during my years as block superintendent when all
 six cells were occupied at one time—thank God for small favors. Four was
 the most, mixed black and white (at Cold Mountain, there was no segregation
 among the walking dead), and that was a little piece of hell. One was a
 woman, Beverly McCall. She was black as the ace of spades and as beautiful
 as the sin you never had nerve enough to commit. She put up with six years
 of her husband beating her, but wouldn
s own razors to do it. Two nights before she was due to sit
 in Old Sparky, she called me to her cell and said she had been visited by her
 African spirit-father in a dream. He told her to discard her slave-name and to
 die under her free name, Matuomi. That was her request, that her death
 warrant should be read under the name of Beverly Matuomi. I guess her
 spirit-father didn
s round ass going
 left instead of right when she got to the duty desk, let me tell you.
 Thirty-five years or so later—had to be at least thirty-five—I saw that name
 on the obituary page of the paper, under a picture of a skinny-faced black
 lady with a cloud of white hair and glasses with rhinestones at the corners. It
 was Beverly. She
ve spent as much time
 minding murderers as I did. There was only one time I ever had a question
 about the nature of my job. That, I reckon, is why I
30, that one was, I believe—we had nine witnesses pass
 out.
 On the left side of the storage shed—again—there was life. Tools (all
 locked down in frames criss-crossed with chains, as if they were carbine
 rifles instead of spades and pickaxes), dry goods, sacks of seeds for spring
 planting in the prison gardens, boxes of toilet paper, pallets cross-loaded with
 blanks for the prison plate-shop... even bags of lime for marking out the
 baseball diamond and the football gridiron—the cons played in what was
 known as The Pasture, and fall afternoons were greatly looked forward to at
Cold Mountain.
 On the right—once again—death. Old Sparky his ownself, sitting up on a
 plank platform at the southeast corner of the store room, stout oak legs, broad
 oak arms that had absorbed the terrorized sweat of scores of men in the last
 few minutes of their lives, and the metal cap, usually hung jauntily on the
 back of the chair, like some robot kid
s brain.
 2 
1932 was the year of John Coffey. The details would be in the papers, still
 there for anyone who cared enough to look them out—someone with more
 energy than one very old man whittling away the end of his life in a Georgia
 nursing home. That was a hot fall, I remember that; very hot, indeed. October
 almost like August, and the warden
Brutal,
t hurt a fly unless he had to,
 in spite of his size) are all dead now, and so is Percy Wetmore, who really
 was brutal... not to mention stupid. Percy had no business on E Block, where
 an ugly nature was useless and sometimes dangerous, but he was related to
 the governor by marriage, and so he stayed.
 It was Percy Wetmore who ushered Coffey onto the block, with the
 supposedly traditional cry of 

It was still as hot as the hinges of hell, October or not. The door to the
 exercise yard opened, letting in a flood of brilliant light and the biggest man
 I
Resource Room
ve finished
 up in. He wore chains on his arms and across his water-barrel of a chest; he
 wore legirons on his ankles and shuffled a chain between them that sounded
 like cascading coins as it ran along the lime—colored corridor between the
 cells. Percy Wetmore was on one side of him, skinny little Harry Terwilliger
 was on the other, and they looked like children walking along with a captured
 bear. Even Brutus Howell looked like a kid next to Coffey, and Brutal was
 over six feet tall and broad as well, a football tackle who had gone on to play
 at LSU until he flunked out and came back home to the ridges.
 John Coffey was black, like most of the men who came to stay for awhile in
 E Block before dying in Old Sparky
t all willowy like the TV basketball fellows, though—he was
 broad in the shoulders and deep through the chest, laced over with muscle in
 every direction. They
s monkey wears, only blue
 instead of red. He looked like he could have snapped the chains that held him
 as easily as you might snap the ribbons on a Christmas present, but when you
 looked in his face, you knew he wasn
t dull-although that was what Percy thought, it wasn
Dead man walking!
s
 wristcuff, as if he really believed he could move him if Coffey decided he
 didn
t say anything, but he
 looked embarrassed. 

 
ll be enough of that,
s
 cell, sitting on his bunk. I
s pure size
until I saw him. Percy gave me a look that said we all knew I was an asshole
 (except for the big dummy, of course, who only knew how to rape and
 murder little girls), but he didn
Are you sure you want to be in
 there with him, boss?
t often hear Harry Terwilliger sound nervous—
 he
Am I going to have any trouble with you, big boy?
t as bad as it eventually got, but it was no
 day at the beach, let me tell you.
 Coffey shook his head slowly—once to the left, once to the right, then back
 to dead center. Once his eyes found me, they never left me.
 Harry had a clipboard with Coffey
Give it to
 him,
Put it in his hand.
Now bring it to me, big boy,
s cell—he was our only
 other prisoner in E Block when Coffey came in. Del was a slight, balding
 man with the worried face of an accountant who knows his embezzlement
 will soon be discovered. His tame mouse was sitting on his shoulder.
 Percy Wetmore was leaning in the doorway of the cell which had just
 become John Coffey
t stand
 to have him there. Maybe it was the unseasonable heat, maybe it was the
urinary infection heating up my groin and making the itch of my flannel
 underwear all but unbearable, maybe it was knowing that the state had sent
 me a black man next door to an idiot to execute, and Percy clearly wanted to
 hand-tool him a little first. Probably it was all those things. Whatever it was, I
 stopped caring about his political connections for a little while.
 
 I said. 
re moving house over in the infirmary.
Bill Dodge is in charge of that detail—
I know he is,
Go and help him.
That isn
 Percy said. 
 
 was
 Percy
t skinny, like Harry Terwilliger, but he was
 short. A banty-rooster sort of guy, the kind that likes to pick fights, especially
 when the odds are all their way. And vain about his hair. Could hardly keep
 his hands off it.
 
 I said. 

 His lower lip pooched out. Bill Dodge and his men were moving boxes and
 stacks of sheets, even the beds; the whole infirmary was going to a new frame
 building over on the west side of the prison. Hot work, heavy lifting. Percy
 Wetmore wanted no part of either.
 
 he said.
 
 I said, raising my voice. I saw Harry
 wince and paid no attention. If the governor ordered Warden Moores to fire
 me for ruffling the wrong set of feathers, who was Hal Moores going to put
 in my place? Percy? It was a joke. 
t care what you do, Percy, as
 long as you get out of here for awhile.
d be real trouble,
 with Coffey standing there the whole time like the world
t
 remember which guard was sitting at the duty desk that day—one of the
 floaters, I guess—but Percy must not have liked the way he looked, because
 he growled, 
ll wipe it off for
 you
s mouse ran back and forth from one of the little
 Frenchman
Be still, Mr. Jingles,
Just be so still and so quiet.
s lilting Cajun accent, quiet came out sounding exotic and foreign
 —kwaht.
 
 I said curtly. 

 He did as I said. He had raped a young girl and killed her, and had then
 dropped her body behind the apartment house where she lived, doused it with
 coal-oil, and then set it on fire, hoping in some muddled way to dispose of the
 evidence of his crime. The fire had spread to the building itself, had engulfed
 it, and six more people had died, two of them children. It was the only crime
 he had in him, and now he was just a mild-mannered man with a worried
 face, a bald pate, and long hair straggling over the back of his shirt-collar. He
 would sit down with Old Sparky in a little while, and Old Sparky would
 make an end to him... but whatever it was that had done that awful thing was
 already gone, and now he lay on his bunk, letting his little companion run
 squeaking over his hands. In a way, that was the worst; Old Sparky never
 burned what was inside them, and the drugs they inject them with today don
t really alive anyway.
 I turned my attention to the giant.
 

 He nodded. It was like his head-shake: down, up, back to center. His
 strange eyes looked at me. There was a kind of peace in them, but not a kind I
 was sure I could trust. I crooked a finger to Harry, who came in and unlocked
 the chains. He showed no fear now, even when he knelt between Coffey
s instincts. I trusted the
 instincts of all my day-to-day E Block men, except for Percy.
 I have a little set speech I make to men new on the block, but I hesitated
 with Coffey, because he seemed so abnormal, and not just in his size.
 When Harry stood back (Coffey had remained motionless during the entire
 unlocking ceremony, as placid as a Percheron), I looked up at my new
 charge, tapping on the clipboard with my thumb, and said: 

 
 he said. His voice was a deep and quiet rumble. It
 made me think of a freshly tuned tractor engine. He had no real Southern
 drawl—he said I, not Ah—but there was a kind of Southern construction to
his speech that I noticed later. As if he was from the South, but not of it. He
 didn
t sound educated. In his speech as in so
 many other things, he was a mystery. Mostly it was his eyes that troubled me
 —a kind of peaceful absence in them, as if he were floating far, far away.
 

 

 

 
 said he, serenely.
 I sighed, then gave him a short version of my set speech. I
t going to be any trouble. In that I was both right and wrong.
 
 I said. 
m the E Block super—the head
 screw. You want something from me, ask for me by name. If I

 Coffey nodded.
 
t expect to get what you want unless we decide it
t a hotel. Still with me?
This is a quiet place, big boy—not like the rest of the prison. It
t work; mostly you
 Too much time for most of them, but I didn
Sometimes we play the radio, if all

 He nodded, but doubtfully, as if he wasn
d been up to the last
 time.
 
ll eat on time, you
ll have two hours in the yard afternoons from four until six, except
 on Saturdays when the rest of the prison population has their flag football
 games. You

 He shook his head. 
 he said.
 

 
ve seen the back end of him,
He was give to me on
 loan. Don

I looked at him closely to see if he might be trying a little joke, but he didn
t expected any different. Appeals weren
t, and that was
 good. Because he was so damned big.
 I shifted a little on the bunk, then decided I might feel a little more
 comfortable in my nether parts if I stood up, and so I did. He backed away
 from me respectfully, and clasped his hands in front of him.
 
m here
 to say you might as well make it easy on all of us, because it comes to the
 same in the end. We

 
 he asked right away, as if he had
 only been waiting for the chance.
 I blinked at him. I had been asked a lot of strange questions by newcomers
 to E Block—once about the size of my wife
t help himself. 
 he said. 
s a strange place.
t see them at their worst, hammering out
 their horrors like demons at a forge.
 
s pretty bright in here all night long,
Half the lights along the
 Mile burn from nine until five every morning.
t
 have any idea of what I was talking about—he didn
In the corridor.
m not sure he knew what a corridor was, either, but
 he could see the 200-watt bulbs in their wire cages.
 I did something I
t know why. Him asking about the lights, maybe. It
 made Harry Terwilliger blink, I can tell you that. Coffey took my hand with
 surprising gentleness, my hand all but disappearing into his, and that was all
 of it. I had another moth in my killing bottle. We were done.
 I stepped out of the cell. Harry pulled the door shut on its track and ran both
locks. Coffey stood where he was a moment or two longer, as if he didn
s
 hands between his knees, and lowered his head like a man who grieves or
 prays. He said something then in his strange, almost Southern voice. I heard
 it with perfect clarity, and although I didn
d done
 then—you don
s done in order to feed him
 and groom him until it
I couldn
 he said. 

 3 

re going to have you some trouble with Percy,
t actually have such things, a situation Percy Wetmore
 would have fixed up in a flash—was sitting behind my desk, updating the
 files, a job I never seemed to get around to. He barely looked up as we came
 in, just gave his little glasses a shove with the ball of his thumb and dived
 back into his paperwork.
 
 I
 said, gingerly, pulling my pants away from my crotch and wincing. 

 
t very well not,
I was there, you know.
I was in the john and heard it just fine,
Dead man walking.

 And he probably had. Percy Wetmore was a great reader of Argosy and
 Stag and Men
d come just after we did Anthony Ray, the hatchet-killer—and
 he hadn
d witnessed
 one from the switch-room.
 
 Harry said. 
s connected. You
ll have to answer even harder for
expecting him to do some real work.
I don
 I said, and I didn
t
 the sort to let a man just stand around and do the heavy looking-on. 
m more
 interested in the big boy, for the time being. Are we going to have trouble
 with him?
He was quiet as a lamb at court down there in Trapingus County,
Of course they had more chains on him than Scrooge saw on Marley
d wanted. That

 
 I said, although I didn
Big one, ain
 Dean said.
 
 I agreed. 

 

 
t worry about Old Sparky,
He makes the big 

 Dean pinched the sides of his nose, where there were a couple of angry red
 patches from his glasses, and nodded. 
 he said. 

 I asked, 
t it?
Yep,
Tefton, down in Trapingus County. Before he showed up
 there and did what he did, no one seems to know. He just drifted around, I
 guess. You might be able to find out a little more from the newspapers in the
 prison library, if you
t get around to
 moving those until next week.
You might have to listen to your
 little buddy bitching and moaning upstairs, though.
I might just go have a peek, anyway,
s pocket
 was what I thought, but the Depression was on, and I kept my opinions to
 myself—the way I should have kept my mouth shut about Percy, but
 sometimes a man just can
s mouth gets him in
 more trouble than his pecker ever could, most of the time. And the auto shop
 never happened, anyway—the next spring, the prison moved sixty miles
down the road to Brighton. More backroom deals, I reckon. More barrels of
 pork. Wasn
s
 mysteries); the library was still partly stocked—not that it ever had much in it
 —and standing empty. The old building was a hot clapboard box kind of
 shouldered in between A and B Blocks. Their bathrooms backed up on it and
 the whole building was always swimming with this vague pissy smell, which
 was probably the only good reason for the move. The library was L-shaped,
 and not much bigger than my office. I looked for a fan, but they were all
 gone. It must have been a hundred degrees in there, and I could feel that hot
 throb in my groin when I sat down. Sort of like an infected tooth. I know
 that
re talking about here, but it
t bothering him, nor were the
 grunts, thumps, and occasional curses from the infirmary upstairs (where it
 had to be at least ten degrees hotter, and I hoped Percy Wetmore was
 enjoying it). I didn
t, though, and the
 business about the Detterick twins was easily enough looked out; it had been
 front-page news from the commission of the crime in June right through the
 trial in late August and September.
 Soon I had forgotten the heat and the thumps from upstairs and old
 Gibbons
s hulking darkness was unpleasant but impossible
 to ignore. Given his size, it was easy to imagine him actually eating them,
 like a giant in a fairy tale. What he had done was even worse, and it was a
 lucky thing for him that he hadn
s lap lucky.
4 
King Cotton had been deposed in the South seventy years before all these
 things happened and would never be king again, but in those years of the
 thirties it had a little revival. There were no more cotton plantations, but there
 were forty or fifty prosperous cotton farms in the southern part of our state.
 Klaus Detterick owned one of them. By the standards of the nineteen-fifties
 he would have been considered only a rung above shirttail poor, but by those
 of the thirties he was considered well-to-do because he actually paid his store
 bill in cash at the end of most months, and he could meet the bank president
s: chickens
 and a few cows. He and his wife had three children: Howard. who was twelve
 or thereabouts, and the twin girls. Cora and Kathe.
 On a warm night in June of that year, the girls asked for and were given
 permission to sleep on the screen-enclosed side porch, which ran the length
 of the house. This was a great treat for them. Their mother kissed them
 goodnight just shy of nine, when the last light had gone out of the sky. It was
 the final time she saw either of them until they were in their coffins and the
 undertaker had repaired the worst of the damage.
 Country families went to bed early in those days—"soon as 
 my own mother sometimes said—and slept soundly.
 Certainly Klaus, Marjorie, and Howie Detterick did on the night the twins
 were taken. Klaus would almost certainly have been wakened by Bowser, the
 family's big old half-breed collie, if he had barked, but Bowser didn't. Not
 that night, not ever again.
 Klaus was up at first light to do the milking. The porch was on the side of
 the house away from the barn, and Klaus never thought to look in on the
 girls. Bowser's failure to join him was no cause for alarm, either. The dog
 held the cows and the chickens alike in great disdain, and usually hid in his
 doghouse behind the barn when the chores were being performed, unless
 called... and called energetically, at that.
 Marjorie came downstairs fifteen minutes or so after her husband had
 pulled on his boots in the mudroom and tromped out to the barn. She started
 the coffee, then put bacon on to fry. The combined smells brought Howie
 down from his room under the eaves, but not the girls from the porch. She
sent Howie out to fetch them as she cracked eggs into the bacon grease.
 Klaus would want the girls out to get fresh ones as soon as breakfast was
 over. Except no breakfast was eaten in the Detterick house that morning.
 Howie came back from the porch, white around the gills and with his
 formerly sleep-puffy eyes now wide open.
 'They're gone,' he said.
 Marjorie went out onto the porch, at first more annoyed than alarmed. She
 said later that she had supposed, if she had supposed anything, that the girls
 had decided to take a walk and pick flowers by the dawn's early light. That or
 some similar green-girl foolishness. One look, and she understood why
 Howie had been white.
 She screamed for Klaus—shrieked for him—and Klaus came on the dead
 run, his workboots whitened by the half-full pail of milk he had spilled on
 them. What he found on the porch would have jellied the legs of the most
 courageous parent. The blankets in which the girls would have bundled
 themselves as the night drew on and grew colder had been cast into one
 comer. The screen door had been yanked off its upper hinge and hung
 drunkenly out into the dooryard. And on the boards of both the porch and the
 steps beyond the mutilated screen door, there were spatters of blood.
 Marjorie begged her husband not to go hunting after the girls alone, and not
 to take their son if he felt he had to go after them, but she could have saved
 her breath. He took the shotgun he kept mounted in the mudroom high out of
 the reach of little hands, and gave Howie the.22 they had been saving for his
 birthday in July. Then they went, neither of them paying the slightest
 attention to the shrieking, weeping woman who wanted to know what they
 would do if they met a gang of wandering hobos or a bunch of bad niggers
 escaped from the county farm over in Laduc. In this I think the men were
 right, you know. The blood was no longer runny, but it was only tacky yet,
 and still closer to true red than the maroon that comes when blood has well
 dried. The abduction hadn't happened too long ago. Klaus must have
 reasoned that there was still a chance for his girls, and he meant to take it.
 Neither one of them could track worth a damn—they were gatherers, not
 hunters, men who went into the woods after coon and deer in their seasons
 not because they much wanted to, but because it was an expected thing. And
 the dooryard around the house was a blighted patch of dirt with tracks all
 overlaid in a meaningless tangle. They went around the barn, and saw almost
 at once why Bowser, a bad biter but a good barker, hadn't sounded the alarm.
He lay half in and half out of a doghouse which had been built of leftover
 barnboards (there was a signboard with the word Bowser neatly printed on it
 over the curved hole in the front—I saw a photograph of it in one of the
 papers), his head turned most of the way around on his neck. It would have
 taken a man of enormous power to have done that to such a big animal, the
 prosecutor later told John Coffey's jury... and then he had looked long and
 meaningfully at the hulking defendant, sitting behind the defense table with
 his eyes cast down and wearing a brand-new pair of state-bought bib overalls
 that looked like damnation in and of themselves. Beside the dog, Klaus and
 Howie found a scrap of cooked link sausage. The theory—a sound one, I
 have no doubt—was that Coffey had first charmed the dog with treats, and
 then, as Bowser began to eat the last one, had reached out his hands and
 broken its neck with one mighty snap of his wrists.
 Beyond the barn was Detterick's north pasture, where no cows would graze
 that day. It was drenched with morning dew, and leading off through it,
 cutting on a diagonal to the northwest and plain as day, was the beaten track
 of a man's passage.
 Even in his state of near-hysteria, Klaus Detterick hesitated at first to follow
 it. It wasn't fear of the man or men who had taken his daughters; it was fear
 of following the abductor's backtrail... of going off in exactly the wrong
 direction at a time when every second might count.
 Howie solved that dilemma by plucking a shred of yellow cotton cloth from
 a bush growing just beyond the edge of the dooryard. Klaus was shown this
 same scrap of cloth as he sat on the witness stand, and began to weep as he
 identified it as a piece of his daughter Kathe's sleeping-shorts. Twenty yards
 beyond it, hanging from the jutting finger of a juniper shrub, they found a
 piece of faded green cloth that matched the nightie Cora had been wearing
 when she kissed her ma and pa goodnight.
 The Dettericks, father and son, set off at a near-run with their guns held in
 front of them, as soldiers do when crossing contested ground under heavy
 fire. If I wonder at anything that happened that day, it is that the boy, chasing
 desperately after his father (and often in danger of being left behind
 completely), never fell and put a bullet in Klaus Detterick's back.
 The farmhouse was on the exchange—another sign to the neighbors that the
 Dettericks were prospering, at least moderately, in disastrous times—and
 Marjorie used Central to call as many of her neighbors that were also on the
 exchange as she could, telling them of the disaster which had fallen like a
lightning-stroke out of a clear sky, knowing that each call would produce
 overlapping ripples, like pebbles tossed rapidly into a stilly pond. Then she
 lifted the handset one last time, and spoke those words that were almost a
 trademark of the early telephone systems of that time, at least in the rural
 South: 'Hello, Central, are you on the line?'
 Central was, but for a moment could say nothing, that worthy woman was
 all agog. At last she managed, 'Yes, ma'am. Mrs. Detterick, I sure am, oh dear
 sweet blessed Jesus, I'm a-prayin right now that your little girls are all right
 —'
 'Yes, thank you,' Marjorie said. 'But you tell the Lord to wait long enough
 for you to put me through to the high sheriff's office down Tefton, all right?'
 The Trapingus County high sheriff was a whiskeynosed old boy with a gut
 like a washtub and a head of white hair so fine it looked like pipe-cleaner
 fuzz. I knew him well; he'd been up to Cold Mountain plenty of times to see
 what he called 'his boys' off into the great beyond. Execution witnesses sat in
 the same folding chairs you've probably sat in yourself a time or two, at
 funerals or church suppers or Grange bingo (in fact, we borrowed ours from
 the Mystic Tie No. 44 Grange back in those days), and every time Sheriff
 Homer Cribus sat down in one, I waited for the dry crack that would signal
 collapse. I dreaded that day and hoped for it, both at the same time, but it was
 a day that never came. Not long after—couldn't have been more than one
 summer after the Detterick girls were abducted—he had a heart attack in his
 office, apparently while screwing a seventeen year-old black girl named
 Daphne Shurtleff. There was a lot of talk about that, with him always
 sporting his wife and six boys around so prominent come election time—
 those were the days when, if you wanted to run for something, the saying
 used to be 
 But people love a hypocrite, you know—
 they recognize one of their own, and it always feels so good when someone
 gets caught with his pants down and his dick up and it isn't you.
 Besides being a hypocrite, he was incompetent, the kind of fellow who'd
 get himself photographed petting some lady's cat when it was someone else—
 Deputy Rob McGee, for instance—who'd actually risked a broken collarbone
 by going up the tree where Mistress Pussycat was and bringing her down.
 McGee listened to Marjorie Detterick babble for maybe two minutes, then
 cut her off with four or five questions—quick and curt, like a trained fighter's
 flicking little jabs to the face, the kind of punches that are so small and so
 hard that the blood comes before the sting. When he had answers to these, he
said: 'I'll call Bobo Marchant. He's got dogs. You stay put, Miz Detterick. If
 your man and your boy come back, make them stay put, too. Try, anyway.'
 Her man and her boy had, meanwhile, followed the track of the abductor
 three miles to the northwest, but when his trail ran out of open fields and into
 piney woods, they lost it. They were farmers, not hunters, as I have said, and
 by then they knew it was an animal they were after. Along the way they had
 found the yellow top that matched Kathe's shorts, and another piece of Cora's
 nightie. Both items were drenched with blood, and neither Klaus nor Howie
 was in as much of a hurry as they had been at the start; a certain cold
 certainty must have been filtering into their hot hopes by then, working its
 way downward the way cold water does, sinking because it is heavier.
 They cast into the woods, looking for signs, found none, cast in a second
 place with similar lack of result, then in a third. This time they found a fantail
 of blood splashed across the needles of a loblolly pine. They went in the
 direction it seemed to point for a little way, then began the casting-about
 process again. It was by then nine o'clock in the morning, and from behind
 them they began to hear shouting men and baying dogs. Rob McGee had put
 together a jackleg posse in the time it would have taken Sheriff Cribus to
 finish his first brandy-sweetened cup of coffee, and by quarter past the hour
 they reached Klaus and Howie Detterick, the two of them stumbling
 desperately around on the edge of the woods. Soon the men were moving
 again, with Bobo's dogs leading the way. McGee let Klaus and Howie go on
 with them—they wouldn't have gone back if he'd ordered them, no matter
 how much they dreaded the outcome, and McGee must have seen that—but
 he made them unload their weapons. The others had done the same, McGee
 said; it was safer. What he didn't tell them (nor did anyone else) was that the
 Dettericks were the only ones who had been asked to turn their loads over to
 the deputy. Half-distracted and wanting only to go through to the end of the
 nightmare and be done with it, they did as he asked. When Rob McGee got
 the Dettericks to unload their guns and give him their loads, he probably
 saved John Coffey's miserable excuse for a life.
 The baying, yawping dogs pulled them through two miles of scrub pine,
 always on that same rough northwest heading. Then they came out on the
 edge of the Trapingus River, which is wide and slow at that point, running
 southeast through low, wooded hills where families named Cray and
 Robinette and Duplissey still made their own mandolins and often spat out
 their own rotted teeth as they plowed; deep countryside where men were apt
to handle snakes on Sunday morning and lie down in carnal embrace with
 their daughters on Sunday night. I knew their families; most of them had sent
 Sparky a meal from time to time. On the far side of the river, the members of
 the posse could see the June sun glinting off the steel rails of a Great
 Southern branch line. About a mile downstream to their right, a trestle
 crossed toward the coal-fields of West Green.
 Here they found a wide trampled patch in the grass and low bushes, a patch
 so bloody that many of the men had to sprint back into the woods and relieve
 themselves of their breakfasts. They also found the rest of Cora's nightgown
 lying in this bloody patch, and Howie, who had held up admirably until then,
 reeled back against his father and nearly fainted.
 And it was here that Bobo Marchant's dogs had their first and only
 disagreement of the day. There were six in all, two bloodhounds, two bluetick
 hounds, and a couple of those terrierlike mongrels border Southerners call
 coon hounds. The coonies wanted to go northwest, upstream along the
 Trapingus; the rest wanted to go in the other direction, southeast. They got all
 tangled in their leads, and although the papers said nothing about this part, I
 could imagine the horrible curses Bobo must have rained down on them as he
 used his hands—surely the most educated part of him—to get them
 straightened around again. I have known a few hound-dog men in my time,
 and it's been my experience that, as a class, they run remarkably true to type.
 Bobo shortleashed them into a pack, then ran Cora Detterick's torn
 nightgown under their noses, to kind of remind them what they were doing
 out on a day when the temperature would be in the mid-nineties by noon and
 the noseeums were already circling the heads of the possemen in clouds. The
 coonies took another sniff, decided to vote the straight ticket, and off they all
 went downstream, in full cry.
 It wasn't but ten minutes later when the men stopped, realizing they could
 hear more than just the dogs. It was a howling rather than a baying, and a
 sound no dog had ever made, not even in its dying extremities. It was a sound
 none of them had ever heard anything make, but they knew right away, all of
 them, that it was a man. So they said, and I believed them. I think I would
 have recognized it, too. I have heard men scream just that way, I think, on
 their way to the electric chair. Not a lot—most button themselves up and go
 either quiet or joking, like it was the class picnic—but a few. Usually the
 ones who believe in hell as a real place, and know it is waiting for them at the
 end of the Green Mile.
Bobo shortleashed his dogs again. They were valuable, and he had no
 intention of losing them to the psychopath howling and gibbering just down
 yonder. The other men reloaded their guns and snapped them closed. That
 howling had chilled them all, and made the sweat under their arms and
 running down their backs feel like icewater. When men take a chill like that,
 they need a leader if they are to go on, and Deputy McGee led them. He got
 out in front and walked briskly (I bet he didn't feel very brisk right then,
 though) to a stand of alders that jutted out of the woods on the right, with the
 rest of them trundling along nervously about five paces behind. He paused
 just once, and that was to motion the biggest man among them—Sam Hollis
 —to keep near Klaus Detterick.
 On the other side of the alders there was more open ground stretching back
 to the woods on the right. On the left was the long, gentle slope of the
 riverbank. They all stopped where they were, thunderstruck. I think they
 would have given a good deal to unsee what was before them, and none of
 them would ever forget it—it was the sort of nightmare, bald and almost
 smoking in the sun, that lies beyond the drapes and furnishings of good and
 ordinary lives—church suppers, walks along country lanes, honest work,
 love-kisses in bed. There is a skull in every man, and I tell you there is a skull
 in the lives of all men. They saw it that day, those men—they saw what
 sometimes grins behind the smile.
 Sitting on the riverbank in a faded, bloodstained jumper was the biggest
 man any of them had ever seen—John Coffey. His enormous, splay-toed feet
 were bare. On his head he wore a faded red bandanna, the way a country
 woman would wear a kerchief into church. Gnats circled him in a black
 cloud. Curled in each arm was the body of a naked girl. Their blonde hair,
 once curly and light as milkweed fluff, was now matted to their heads and
 streaked red. The man holding them sat bawling up at the sky like a
 moonstruck calf, his dark brown cheeks slicked with tears, his face twisted in
 a monstrous cramp of grief He drew breath in hitches, his chest rising until
 the snaps holding the straps of his jumper were strained, and then let that vast
 catch of air out in another of those howls. So often you read in the paper that
 
 but that wasn't the case here. John Coffey
 was torn open by what he had done... but he would live. The girls would not.
 They had been torn open in a more fundamental way.
 No one seemed to know how long they stood there, looking at the howling
 man who was, in his turn, looking across the great still plate of the river at a
train on the other side, storming down the tracks toward the trestle that
 crossed the river. It seemed they looked for an hour or for forever, and yet the
 train got no farther along, it seemed to storm only in one place, like a child
 doing a tantrum, and the sun did not go behind a cloud, and the sight was not
 blotted from their eyes. It was there before them, as real as a dogbite. The
 black man rocked back and forth; Cora and Kathe rocked with him like dolls
 in the arms of a giant. The bloodstained muscles in the man's huge, bare arms
 flexed and relaxed, flexed and relaxed, flexed and relaxed.
 It was Klaus Detterick who broke the tableau. Screaming, he flung himself
 at the monster who had raped and killed his daughters. Sam Hollis knew his
 job and tried to do it, but couldn't. He was six inches taller than Klaus and
 outweighed him by at least seventy pounds, but Klaus seemed to almost
 shrug his encircling arms off. Klaus flew across the intervening open ground
 and launched a flying kick at Coffey's head. His workboot, caked with spilled
 milk that had already soured in the heat, scored a direct hit on Coffey's left
 temple, but Coffey seemed not to feel it at all. He only sat there, keening and
 rocking and looking out across the river; the way I imagine it, he could
 almost have been a picture out of some piney woods Pentecostal sermon, the
 faithful follower of the Cross looking out toward Goshen Land... if not for the
 corpses, that was.
 It took four men to haul the hysterical farmer off John Coffey, and he
 fetched Coffey I don't know how many good licks before they finally did. It
 didn't seem to matter to Coffey, one way or the other; he just went on looking
 out across the river and keening. As for Detterick, all the fight went out of
 him when he was finally pulled off—as if some strange galvanizing current
 had been running through the huge black man (I still have a tendency to think
 in electrical metaphors; you'll have to pardon me), and when Detterick's
 contact with that power source was finally broken, he went as limp as a man
 flung back from a live wire. He knelt wide-legged on the riverbank with his
 hands to his face, sobbing. Howie joined him and they hugged each other
 forehead to forehead.
 Two men watched them while the rest formed a rifle-toting ring around the
 rocking, wailing black man. He still seemed not to realize that anyone but
 him was there. McGee stepped forward, shifted uncertainly from foot to foot
 for a bit, then hunkered.
 'Mister,' he said in a quiet voice, and Coffey hushed at once. McGee looked
 at eyes that were bloodshot from crying. And still they streamed, as if
someone had left a faucet on inside him. Those eyes wept, and yet were
 somehow untouched... distant and serene. I thought them the strangest eyes I
 had ever seen in my life, and McGee felt much the same. 'Like the eyes of an
 animal that never saw a man before,' he told a reporter named Hammersmith
 just before the trial.
 'Mister, do you hear me?' McGee asked.
 Slowly, Coffey nodded his head. Still he curled his arms around his
 unspeakable dolls, their chins down on their chests so their faces could not be
 clearly seen, one of the few mercies God saw fit to bestow that day.
 'Do you have a name?' MeGee asked.
 'John Coffey,' he said in a thick and tear-clotted voice. 'Coffey like the
 drink, only not spelled the same way.'
 McGee nodded, then pointed a thumb at the chest pocket of Coffey's
 jumper, which was bulging. It looked to McGee like it might have been a gun
 —not that a man Coffey's size would need a gun to do some major damage, if
 he decided to go off. 'What's that in there, John Coffey? Is that maybe a
 heater? A pistol?'
 'Nosir,' Coffey said in his thick voice, and those strange eyes—welling tears
 and agonized on top, distant and weirdly serene underneath, as if the true
 John Coffey was somewhere else, looking out on some other landscape
 where murdered little girls were nothing to get all worked up about—never
 left Deputy McGee's. 'That's just a little lunch I have.'
 'Oh, now, a little lunch, is that right?' McGee asked, and Coffey nodded and
 said yessir with his eyes running and dear snot-runners hanging out of his
 nose. 'And where did the likes of you get a little lunch, John Coffey?' Forcing
 himself to be calm, although he could smell the girls by then, and could see
 the flies lighting and sampling the places on them that were wet. It was their
 hair that was the worst, he said later... and this wasn't in any newspaper story;
 it was considered too grisly for family reading. No, this I got from the
 reporter who wrote the story, Mr. Hammersmith. I looked him up later on,
 because later on John Coffey became sort of an obsession with me. McGee
 told this Hammersmith that their blonde hair wasn't blonde anymore. It was
 auburn. Blood had run down their cheeks out of it like it was a bad dye-job,
 and you didn't have to be a doctor to see that their fragile skulls had been
 dashed together with the force of those mighty arms. Probably they had been
 crying. Probably he had wanted to make them stop. If the girls had been
 lucky, this had happened before the rapes.
Looking at that made it hard for a man to think, even a man as determined
 to do his job as Deputy McGee was. Bad thinking could cause mistakes,
 maybe more bloodshed. McGee drew him in a deep breath and calmed
 himself. Tried, anyway.
 'Wellsir, I don't exactly remember, be dog if I do,' Coffey said in his tear
choked voice, 'but it's a little lunch, all right, sammidges and I think a swee'
 pickle.'
 I might just have a look for myself, it's all the same to you,' McGee said.
 'Don't you move now, John Coffey. Don't do it, boy, because there are
 enough guns aimed at you to make you disappear from the waist up should
 you so much as twitch a finger.'
 Coffey looked out across the river and didn't move as McGee gently
 reached into the chest pocket of those biballs and pulled out something
 wrapped in newspaper and tied with a hank of butcher's twine. McGee
 snapped the string and opened the paper, although he was pretty sure it was
 just what Coffey said it was, a little lunch. There was a bacon-tomato
 sandwich and a jelly fold-over. There was also a pickle, wrapped in its own
 piece of a funny page John Coffey would never be able to puzzle out. There
 were no sausages. Bowser had gotten the sausages out of John Coffey's little
 lunch.
 McGee handed the lunch back over his shoulder to one of the other men
 without taking his eyes off Coffey. Hunkered down like that, he was too close
 to want to let his attention stray for even a second. The lunch, wrapped up
 again and tied for good measure, finally ended up with Bobo Marchant, who
 put it in his knapsack, where he kept treats for his dogs (and a few fishing
 lures, I shouldn't wonder). It wasn't introduced into evidence at the trial—
 justice in this part of the world is swift, but not as swift as a bacon-tomato
 sandwich goes over—though photographs of it were.
 'What happened here, John Coffey?' McGee asked in his low, earnest voice.
 'You want to tell me that?'
 And Coffey said to McGee and the others almost exactly the same thing he
 said to me; they were also the last words the prosecutor said to the jury at
 Coffey's trial. 'I couldn't help it,' John Coffey said, holding the murdered,
 violated girls naked in his arms. The tears began to pour down his cheeks
 again. 'I tried to take it back, but it was too late!'
 'Boy, you are under arrest for murder,' McGee said, and then he spit in John
 Coffey's face.
The jury was out forty-five minutes. Just about time enough to eat a little
 lunch of their own. I wonder they had any stomach for it.
 5 
I think you know I didn't find all that out during one hot October afternoon
 in the soon-to-be-defunct prison library, from one set of old newspapers
 stacked in a pair of Pomona orange crates, but I learned enough to make it
 hard for me to sleep that night. When my wife got up at two in the morning
 and found me sitting in the kitchen, drinking buttermilk and smoking home
rolled Bugler, she asked me what was wrong and I lied to her for one of the
 few times in the long course of our marriage. I said I'd had another run-in
 with Percy Wetmore. I had, of course, but that wasn't the reason she'd found
 me sitting up late. I was usually able to leave Percy at the office.
 'Well, forget that rotten apple and come on back to bed,' she said. 'I've got
 something that'll help you sleep, and you can have all you want.'
 'That sounds good, but I think we'd better not,' I said. 'I've got a little
 something wrong with my waterworks, and wouldn't want to pass it on to
 you.'
 She raised an eyebrow. 'Waterworks, huh,' she said. 'I guess you must have
 taken up with the wrong streetcorner girl the last time you were in Baton
 Rouge.' I've never been in Baton Rouge and never so much as touched a
 streetcorner girl, and we both knew it.
 'It's just a plain old urinary infection,' I said. 'My mother used to say boys
 got them from taking a leak when the north wind was blowing.'
 'Your mother also used to stay in all day if she spilled the salt,' my wife
 said. 'Dr Sadler—'
 'No, sir,' I said, raising my hand. 'He'll want me to take sulfa, and I'll be
 throwing up in every comer of my office by the end of the week. It'll run its
 course, but in the meantime, I guess we best stay out of the playground.'
 She kissed my forehead right over my left eyebrow, which always gives me
 the prickles... as Janice well knew. 'Poor baby. As if that awful Percy
 Wetmore wasn't enough. Come to bed soon.'
 I did, but before I did, I stepped out onto the back porch to empty out (and
 checked the wind direction with a wet thumb before I did—what our parents
 tell us when we are small seldom goes ignored, no matter how foolish it may
be). Peeing outdoors is one joy of country living the poets never quite got
 around to, but it was no joy that night; the water coming out of me burned
 like a line of lit coal-oil. Yet I thought it had been a little worse that
 afternoon, and knew it had been worse the two or three days before. I had
 hopes that maybe I had started to mend. Never was a hope more ill-founded.
 No one had told me that sometimes a bug that gets up inside there, where it's
 warm and wet, can take a day or two off to rest before coming on strong
 again. I would have been surprised to know it. I would have been even more
 surprised to know that, in another fifteen or twenty years, there would be pills
 you could take that would smack that sort of infection out of your system in
 record time... and while those pills might make you feel a little sick at your
 stomach or loose in your bowels, they almost never made you vomit the way
 Dr. Sadler's sulfa pills did. Back in '32, there wasn't much you could do but
 wait, and try to ignore that feeling that someone had spilled coal-oil inside
 your works and then touched a match to it.
 I finished my butt, went into the bedroom, and finally got to sleep. I
 dreamed of girls with shy smiles and blood in their hair.
 6 
The next morning there was a pink memo slip on my desk, asking me to
 stop by the warden's office as soon as I could. I knew what that was about—
 there were unwritten but very important rules to the game, and I had stopped
 playing by them for awhile yesterday—and so I put it off as long as possible.
 Like going to the doctor about my waterworks problem, I suppose. I've
 always thought this 
 business was overrated.
 Anyway, I didn't hurry to Warden Moores's office. I stripped off my wool
 uniform coat instead, hung it over the back of my chair, and turned on the fan
 in the corner—it was another hot one. Then I sat down and went over Brutus
 Howell's night-sheet. There was nothing there to get alarmed about.
 Delacroix had wept briefly after turning in—he did most nights, and more for
 himself than for the folks he had roasted alive, I am quite sure—and then had
 take Mr. Jingles, the mouse, out of the cigar box he slept in. That had calmed
 Del, and he had slept like a baby the rest of the night. Mr. Jingles had most
 likely spent it on Delacroix's stomach, with his tail curled over his paws, eyes
 unblinking. It was as if God had decided Delacroix needed a guardian angel,
but had decreed in His wisdom that only a mouse would do for a rat like our
 homicidal friend from Louisiana. Not all that was in Brutal's report, of
 course, but I had done enough night watches myself to fill in the stuff
 between the lines. There was a brief note about Coffey: 

 
 was at the center of our job, really. I didn't know it
 then, but looking back from the vantage point of this strange old age (I think
 all old ages seem strange to the folk who must endure them), I understand
 that it was, and why I didn't see it then—it was too big, as central to our work
 as our respiration was to our lives. It wasn't important that the floaters be
 good at 
 but it was vital for me and Harry and Brutal
 and Dean... and it was one reason why Percy Wetmore was such a disaster.
 The inmates hated him, the guards hated him... everyone hated him,
 presumably, except for his political connections, Percy himself, and maybe
 (but only maybe) his mother. He was like a dose of white arsenic sprinkled
 into a wedding cake, and I think I knew he spelled disaster the start. He was
 an accident waiting to happen. As for the rest of us, we would have scoffed at
 the idea that we functioned most usefully not as the guards of the condemned
 but as their psychiatrists part of me still wants to scoff at that idea today—but
 we knew about getting the talk started... and without the talk, men facing Old
 Sparky had a nasty habit of going insane.
 I made a note at the bottom of Brutal's report to talk to John Coffey—to try,
 at least—and then passed on to a note from Curtis Anderson, the warden's
 chief assistant. It said that he, Anderson, expected a DOE order for Edward
 Delacrois (Anderson's misspelling; the man's name was actually Eduard
 Delacroix) very soon. DOE stood for date of execution, and according to the
 note, Curtis had been told on good authority that the little Frenchman would
 take the walk shortly before Halloween—October 27th was his best guess,
 and Curtis Anderson's guesses were very informed. But before then we could
 expect a new resident, name of William Wharton. 
s what you like to call
 "a problem child," " Curtis had written in his backslanting and somehow
 prissy script. "Crazy-wild and proud of it. Has rambled all over the state for
 the last year or so, and has hit the big time at last. Killed three people in a
 holdup, one a pregnant woman, killed a fourth in the getaway. State
 Patrolman. All he missed was a nun and a blind man." I smiled a little at that.
 "Wharton is 19 years old, has Billy the Kid tattooed on upper l. forearm. You
will have to slap his nose a time or two, I guarantee you that, but be careful
 when you do it. This man just doesn
 He had underlined this last
 sentiment twice, then finished: 
s
 working appeals, and there

 A crazy kid, working appeals, apt to be around for awhile. Oh, that all
 sounded just fine. Suddenly the day seemed hotter than ever, and I could no
 longer put off seeing Warden Moores.
 I worked for three wardens during my years as a Cold Mountain guard; Hal
 Moores was the last and best of them. In a walk. Honest, straightforward,
 lacking even Curtis Anderson's rudimentary wit, but equipped with just
 enough political savvy to keep his job during those grim years... and enough
 integrity to keep from getting seduced by the game. He would not rise any
 higher, but that seemed all right with him. He was fifty-eight or—nine back
 then, with a deeply lined bloodhound face that Bobo Marchant probably
 would have felt right at home with. He had white hair and his hands shook
 with some sort of palsy, but he was strong. The year before, when a prisoner
 had rushed him in the exercise yard with a shank whittled out of a crate-slat,
 Moores had stood his ground, grabbed the skatehound's wrist, and had
 twisted it so hard that the snapping bones had sounded like dry twigs burning
 in a hot fire. The skatehound, all his grievances forgotten, had gone down on
 his knees in the dirt and begun screaming for his mother. 'I'm not her,'
 Moores said in his cultured Southern voice, 'But if I was, I'd raise up my
 skirts and piss on you from the loins that gave you birth.'
 When I came into his office, he started to get up and I waved him back
 down. I took the seat across the desk from him, and began by asking about
 his wife... except in our part of the world, that's not how you do it. 'How's that
 pretty gal of yours' is what I asked, as if Melinda had seen only seventeen
 summers instead of sixty-two or—three. My concern was genuine he was a
 woman I could have loved and married myself, if the lines of our lives had
 coincided—but I didn't mind diverting him a little from his main business,
 either.
 He sighed deeply. 'Not so well, Paul. Not so well at all.'
 'More headaches?'
 'Only one this week, but it was the worst yet—put her flat on her back for
 most of the day before yesterday. And now she's developed this weakness in
 her right hand—' He raised his own liverspotted right hand. We both watched
 it tremble above his blotter for a moment or two, and then he lowered it
again. I could tell he would have given just about anything not to be telling
 me what he was telling me, and I would have given just about anything not to
 be hearing it. Melinda's headaches had started in the spring, and all that
 summer her doctor had been saying they were 'nervous-tension migraines,'
 perhaps caused by the stress of Hal's coming retirement. Except that neither
 of them could wait for his retirement, and my own wife had told me that
 migraine is not a disease of the old but the young; by the time its sufferers
 reached Melinda Moores's age, they were usually getting better, not worse.
 And now this weakness of the hand. It didn't sound like nervous tension to
 me; it sounded like a damned stroke.
 'Dr. Haverstrom wants her to go in hospital up to Indianola,' Moores said.
 'Have some tests. Head X-rays, he means. Who knows what else. She is
 scared to death.' He paused, then added, 'Truth to tell, so am I.'
 'Yeah, but you see she does it,' I said. 'Don't wait. If it turns out to be
 something they can see with an X-ray, it may turn out to be something they
 can fix.'
 'Yes,' he agreed, and then, for just a moment—the only one during that part
 of our interview, as I recall—our eyes met and locked. There was the sort of
 nakedly perfect understanding between us that needs no words. It could be a
 stroke, yes. It could also be a cancer growing in her brain, and if it was that,
 the chances that the doctors at Indianola could do anything about it were slim
 going on none. This was '32, remember, when even something as relatively
 simple as a urinary infection was either sulfa and stink or suffer and wait.
 'I thank you for your concern, Paul. Now let's talk about Percy Wetmore.'
 I groaned and covered my eyes.
 'I had a call from the state capital this morning,' the warden said evenly. 'It
 was quite an angry call, as I'm sure you can imagine. Paul, the governor is so
 married he's almost not there, if you take my meaning. And his wife has a
 brother who has one child. That child is Percy Wetmore. Percy called his dad
 last night, and Percy's dad called Percy's aunt. Do I have to trace the rest of
 this out for you?'
 'No,' I said. 'Percy squealed. Just like the schoolroom sissy telling teacher
 he saw Jack and Jill smooching in the cloakroom.'
 'Yep,' Moores agreed, 'that's about the size of it.'
 'You know what happened between Percy and Delacroix when Delacroix
 came in?' I asked. 'Percy and his damned hickory billy-club?'
 'Yes, but—'
'And you know how he runs it along the bars sometimes, just for the pure
 hell of it. He's mean, and he's stupid, and I don't know how much longer I can
 take him. That's the truth.'
 We'd known each other five years. That can be a long time for men who get
 on well, especially when part of the job is trading life for death. What I'm
 saying is that he understood what I meant. Not that I would quit; not with the
 Depression walking around outside the prison walls like a dangerous
 criminal, one that couldn't be caged as our charges were. Better men than me
 were out on the roads or riding the rods. I was lucky and knew it—children
 grown and the mortgage, that two-hundred-pound block of marble, had been
 off my chest for the last two years. But a man's got to eat, and his wife has to
 eat, too. Also, we were used to sending our daughter and son-in-law twenty
 bucks whenever we could afford it (and sometimes when we couldn't, if
 Jane's letters sounded particularly desperate). He was an out-of-work high
school teacher, and if that didn't qualify for desperate back in those days, then
 the word had no meaning. So no, you didn't walk off a steady paycheck job
 like mine... not in cold blood, that was. But my blood wasn't cold that fall.
 The temperatures outside were unseasonable, and the infection crawling
 around inside me had turned the thermostat up even more. And when a man's
 in that kind of situation, why, sometimes his fist flies out pretty much of its
 own accord. And if you slug a connected man like Percy Wetmore once, you
 might as well just go right on slugging, because there's no going back.
 'Stick with it,' Moores said quietly. 'That's what I called you in here to say. I
 have it on good authority—the person who called me this morning, in fact—
 that Percy has an application in at Briar, and that his application will be
 accepted.'
 'Briar,' I said. That was Briar Ridge, one of two state-run hospitals. 'What's
 this kid doing? Touring state facilities?'
 'It's an administration job. Better pay, and papers to push instead of hospital
 beds in the heat of the day.' He gave me a slanted grin. 'You know, Paul, you
 might be shed of him already if you hadn't put him in the switch-room with
 Van Hay when The Chief walked.'
 For a moment what he said seemed so peculiar I didn't have a clue what he
 was getting at. Maybe I didn't want to have a clue.
 'Where else would I put him?' I asked. 'Christ, he hardly knows what he's
 doing on the block! To make him part of the active execution team—' I didn't
 finish. Couldn't finish. The potential for screw-ups seemed endless.
'Nevertheless, you'd do well to put him out for Delacroix. If you want to get
 rid of him, that is.'
 I looked at him with my jaw hung. At last I was able to get it up where it
 belonged so I could talk. 'What are you saying? That he wants to experience
 one right up close where he can smell the guy's nuts cooking?'
 Moores shrugged. His eyes, so soft when he had been speaking about his
 wife, now looked flinty. 'Delacroix's nuts are going to cook whether
 Wetmore's on the team or not,' he said. 'Correct?'
 'Yes, but he could screw up. In fact, Hal, he's almost bound to screw up.
 And in front of thirty or so witnesses... reporters all the way up from
 Louisiana... '
 'You and Brutus Howell will make sure he doesn't,' Moores said. 'And if he
 does anyway, it goes on his record, and it'll still be there long after his
 statehouse connections are gone. You understand?'
 I did. It made me feel sick and scared, but I did.
 'He may want to stay for Coffey, but if we're lucky, he'll get all he needs
 from Delacroix. You just make sure you put him out for that one.'
 I had planned to stick Percy in the switch-room again, then down in the
 tunnel, riding shotgun on the gurney that would take Delacroix to the
 meatwagon parked across the road from the prison, but I tossed all those
 plans back over my shoulder without so much as a second look. I nodded. I
 had the sense to know it was a gamble I was taking, but I didn't care. If it
 would get rid of Percy Wetmore, I'd tweak the devil's nose. He could take
 part in his execution, clamp on the cap, and then look through the grille and
 tell Van Hay to roll on two; he could watch the little Frenchman ride the
 lightning that he, Percy Wetmore, had let out of the bottle. Let him have his
 nasty little thrill, if that's what state-sanctioned murder was to him. Let him
 go on to Briar Ridge, where he would have his own office and a fan to cool it.
 And if his uncle by marriage was voted out of office in the next election and
 he had to find out what work was like in the tough old sunbaked world where
 not all the bad guys were locked behind bars and sometimes you got your
 own head whipped, so much the better.
 'All right,' I said, standing up. 'I'll put him out front for Delacroix. And in
 the meantime, I'll keep the peace.'
 'Good,' he said, and stood up himself. 'By the way, how's that problem of
 yours?' He pointed delicately in the direction of my groin.
 'Seems a little better.'
'Well, that's fine.' He saw me to the door. 'What about Coffey, by the way?
 Is he going to be a problem?'
 'I don't think so,' I said. 'So far he's been as quiet as a dead rooster. He's
 strange—strange eyes—but quiet. We'll keep tabs on him, though. Don't
 worry about that.'
 'You know what he did, of course.'
 'Sure.'
 He was seeing me through to the outer office by then, where old Miss
 Hannah sat bashing away at her Underwood as she had ever since the last ice
 age had ended, it seemed. I was happy to go. All in all, I felt as if I'd gotten
 off easy. And it was nice to know there was a chance of surviving Percy, after
 all.
 'You send Melinda a whole basket of my love,' I said. 'And don't go buying
 you an extra crate of trouble, either. It'll probably turn out to be nothing but
 migraine, after all.'
 'You bet,' he said, and below his sick eyes, his lips smiled. The combination
 was damned near ghoulish.
 As for me, I went back to E Block to start another day. There was
 paperwork to be read and written, there were floors to be mopped, there were
 meals to be served, a duty roster to be made out for the following week, there
 were a hundred details to be seen to. But mostly there was waiting—in prison
 there's always plenty of that, so much it never gets done. Waiting for Eduard
 Delacroix to walk the Green Mile, waiting for William Wharton to arrive
 with his curled lip and Billy the Kid tattoo, and, most of all, waiting for Percy
 Wetmore to be gone out of my life.
 7 
Delacroix's mouse was one of God's mysteries. I never saw one in E Block
 before that summer, and never saw one after that fall, when Delacroix passed
 from our company on a hot and thundery night in October—passed from it in
 a manner so unspeakable I can barely bring myself to recall it. Delacroix
 claimed that he trained that mouse, which started its life among us as
 Steamboat Willy, but I really think it was the other way around. Dean Stanton
 felt the same way, and so did Brutal. Both of them were there the night the
 mouse put in its first appearance, and as Brutal said, 
us half-tame
already, and twice as smart as that Cajun what thought he owned it."
 Dean and I were in my office, going over the record-box for the last year,
 getting ready to write follow-up letters to witnesses of five executions, and to
 write follow-ups to follow-ups in another six stretching all the way back to
 
ve had a nightmare.
 The purpose of the execution is to show them that the nightmare is over.
 Maybe it even works that way. Sometimes.
 
 Brutal called from outside the door, where he was manning the desk
 at the head of the hall. 

 Dean and I gazed at each other with identical expressions of alarm, thinking
 that something had happened to either the Indian from Oklahoma (his name
 was Arlen Bitterbuck, but we called him The Chief... or, in Harry
 Terwilliger
t spilled anything on it yet. Of course,
 he was just getting started.
 
 Dean asked. 

 
 Brutal said, still laughing. 

 He pointed and we saw the mouse. I started to laugh, too, and Dean joined
 in. You really couldn
t go into either of the occupied cells; only the empties. And
 finally it had worked its way almost up to where we were. I kept expecting it
 to turn back, but it didn
It ain
 Dean said, a
 little nervously. 
s rabid.
Oh, my Christ,
The big mouse expert. The Mouse Man. You see it foamin at the mouth,
 Mouse Man?
I can
 Dean said, and that made us all laugh again. I
 couldn
t look crazy or rabid to me. They looked interested and
 intelligent. I
t something fancy, like you might be imagining, but
 only the sort of desk the teachers used to sit behind up at the district high
 school. And there it did stop, curling its tail around its paws as prim as an old
 lady settling her skirts.
 I stopped laughing all at once, suddenly feeling cold through my flesh all
 the way to the bones. I want to say I don
s going to make them look or sound
 ridiculous—but of course I do, and if I can tell the truth about the rest, I guess
 I can tell the truth about this. For a moment I imagined myself to be that
 mouse, not a guard at all but just another convicted criminal there on the
 Green Mile, convicted and condemned but still managing to look bravely up
 at a desk that must have seemed miles high to it (as the judgment seat of God
 will no doubt someday seem to us), and at the heavy-voiced, blue-coated
 giants who sat behind it. Giants that shot its kind with BB guns, or swatted
 them with brooms, or set traps on them, traps that broke their backs while
 they crept cautiously over the word VICTOR to nibble at the cheese on the
little copper plate.
 There was no broom by the duty desk, but there was a rolling mop-bucket
 with the mop still in the wringer; I
Leave it be,
t want to swat
 it any more than I did.
 Brutal tore a corner off his corned-beef sandwich and held it out over the
 front of the desk, tweezed delicately between two fingers. The mouse seemed
 to look up with an even livelier interest, as if it knew exactly what it was.
 Probably did; I could see its whiskers twitch as its nose wriggled.
 
 Dean exclaimed, then looked at me. 
t let him do that,
 Paul! If he

 
ll do,
In the interests of science,
 like.
t matter much, one
 way or another. The truth was, I kind of wanted to see what he
Either one smart mouse or hungry as hell,
You got any Injun wisdom about micies, Chief?
Naw,
Knowed a brave once had a pair of what he claimed
 were mouse-skin gloves, but I didn
 Then he laughed, as if the
 whole thing was a joke, and left the bars. We heard the bunk creak as he lay
 down again.
 That seemed to be the mouse
s Adventures in Wonderland, and I smiled. It didn
t need the room for its
 created purpose, and a few books (most were westerns by Clarence Mulford,
 but one—loaned out only on special occasions—featured a profusely
 illustrated tale in which Popeye, Bluto, and even Wimpy the hamburger fiend
 took turns shtupping Olive Oyl). There were craft items as well, including the
 crayons Delacroix later put to some good use. Not that he was our problem
 yet; this was earlier, remember. Also in the restraint room was the jacket no
 one wanted to wear—white, made of double-sewn canvas, and with the
 buttons and snaps and buckles going up the back. We all knew how to zip a
 problem child into that jacket lickety-larrup. They didn
t wait around for the situation
 to improve on its own.
 Brutal reached into the desk drawer above the kneehole and brought out the
 big leather-bound book with the word VISITORS stamped on the front in
 gold leaf. Ordinarily, that book stayed in the drawer from one month to the
 next. When a prisoner had visitors—unless it was a lawyer or a minister—he
 went over to the room off the messhall that was kept special for that purpose.
 The Arcade, we called it. I don
Just what in the Gorry do you think you
 Dean Stanton asked,
 peering over the tops of his spectacles as Brutal opened the book and paged
 grandly past years of visitors to men now dead.
 
 Brutal said, finding the current page. He took the
 pencil and licked the tip—a disagreeable habit of which he could not be
 broken—and prepared to write. Regulation 19 stated simply: 

 
s gone nuts,
He didn
m gonna let it go this time,
Sure, why not, the big bosses probably make exceptions for mice,
Course they do,
Lack of pockets.
s hard thought—probably to muster
 his limited spelling skills, as I
There,
all done and buttoned up.
t help being serious about things even
 when he saw the joke, was frowning and polishing his glasses furiously.
 
ll be in trouble if someone sees that.
The
 wrong someone.
Someone like Percy Kiss-My-Ass-and-Go-to-Heaven Wetmore.
Huh,
The day Percy Wetmore sits his narrow shanks down
 here at this desk will be the day I resign.
You won
 Dean said. 
ll fire you for making jokes in the
 visitors

 Brutal glowered but said nothing. I reckoned that later on that night he
 would erase what he had written. And if he didn
t have a look for Steamboat Willy down
 there in the restraint room.
 
 I said. We
t have to tell you, neither of us was very squeamish about a little
 mouse-murder. Killing rats was what the state paid us for, after all.
 But we didn
t had to use the restraint room in a
 long time. That would change with the advent of William Wharton, but of
 course we didn
Where
 Brutal asked at last, wiping sweat off the back of his neck
 with a big blue bandanna. 
s that, but—
How
d it get out?
I don
 I said.
 
t he? I mean, the three of us saw him.
Yep, right under the door. He had to squeeze a little, but he made it.
Gosh,
It
t make themselves small like that, isn

 
 I said, running my eye over the canvas walls one last time,
 looking for a hole, a crack, anything. There was nothing. 
s go.
d catch the goddam
 mouse and tear its diseased little head right off, but he didn
Whatever you think is best, Percy,
Come here,
Is something wrong?
No,
but I found out where Mr. Jingles was staying. When he first
 came, I mean, before Delacroix took him over. Do you want to see?
s
 condemned. There was a shelf jutting out from the back of the ladder near the
 top, the sort of thing a workman would use to hold his toolkit or a painter the
 bucket he was working out of. There was a flashlight on it. Brutal handed it
 to me.
 
re shorter than me, so you
ll hold your legs!
I
 I said, starting up. 

 
ll mind that.
Good,
because a broken hip

 

 
 My head was up by the caged light in the center of the ceiling
 by then, and I could feel the ladder wiggling a little under my weight.
 Outside, I could hear the winter wind moaning. 

 
t worry.
t see
 anything worth the risk of being up here.
 
 Brutal said. 
re looking too far away, Paul. Look to your left,
 where those two beams come together. You see them? One

 

 

 I did, and saw what he wanted me to see almost right away. The beams had
 been pegged together with dowels, half a dozen of them, and one was gone,
 leaving a black, circular hole the size of a quarter. I looked at it, then looked
 doubtfully back over my shoulder at Brutal. 
 I said, 
t think so.
But that
 Brutal said. 
m just as sure as houses.
I don

 
t worry I got you—and take a whiff.
t let nothing happen to Mr. Jingles, I could hear Delacroix saying in a
 voice that wouldn
 that and a
t let that bad 
d said, and I had promised, as I
 always promised them at the end when walking the Green Mile was no longer
 a myth or a hypothesis but something they really had to do. Mail this letter to
 my brother, who I haven
t keep all of those promises, of
 course, but I kept the one I made to Delacroix. As for the Frenchman himself,
 there had been hell to pay. The bad 
s savage embrace.
A smell of peppermint.
 And something else. Something back inside that hole.
 I took a pen out of my breast pocket with my right hand, still holding onto
 the beam with my left, not worried anymore about Brutal inadvertently
 tickling my sensitive knees. I unscrewed the pen
s voice again, so clearly
 this time that his ghost might have been lurking in that room with us—the
 one where William Wharton spent so much of his time.
 Hey, you guys! the voice said this time-the laughing, amazed voice of a
 man who has forgotten, at least for a little while, where he is and what awaits
 him. Come and see what Mr. Jingles can do!
 
 I whispered. I felt as if the wind had been knocked out of me.
 
t you?
I found three or four.
t
 been painted but colored, with wax Crayola crayons.
 
 I said in a low, shaky voice. 
s pieces of that spool,
 isn

 
t big like I am now,
I got most of my
 growth between fifteen and seventeen. Until then I was a shrimp. And when I
 went off to school the first time, I felt as small as... why, as small as a mouse,
 I guess you

 I shook my head. Outside, the wind gusted again. In the angles formed by
 the beams, cobwebs shook in feathery drafts, like rotted lace. Never had I
 been in a place that felt so nakedly haunted, and it was right then, as we stood
 there looking down at the splintered remains of the spool which had caused
 so much trouble, that my head began to know what my heart had understood
 ever since John Coffey had walked the Green Mile: I couldn
t watch many more men
 walk through my office to their deaths. Even one more might be too many.
 
 Brutal said. 

 

He looked up. I thought for a moment I saw tears in his eyes, but I guess I
 was probably wrong about that. 
t saying nothing, Paul. But I found them
 up there, and I smelled peppermint, same as you—you know you did. And I
 can
t do this no more. Seeing one more man in that
 chair
m going to put in for a transfer to Boys
s fine. If I don
ll resign and go back to farming.
What did you ever farm, besides rocks?
It don

 
t,
I think I

 He looked at me close, making sure I wasn
Wild Bill
s and dotting my
 last mess of i
s about sixty miles from Atlanta and
 about two hundred light-years from life as most people—people under the
 age of eighty, let
t a place like it waiting in your future. It
s cable TV, the food
s damned
 little a man can chew), but in its way, it
s even a fellow here who reminds me a little of Percy Wetmore, who
 got his job on the Green Mile because he was related to the governor of the
 state. I doubt if this fellow is related to anyone important, even though he acts
 that way. Brad Dolan, his name is. He
s always got something to read stuffed into his back pocket. With
 Percy it was magazines like Argosy and Men
s
 these little paperbacks called Gross Jokes and Sick Jokes. He
s mean.
 Something Brad said the other day struck me as actually smart, but I don
You're just lucky you don't have that Alzheimer's disease,
 Paulie,
ve given up asking him to quit. There are other sayings—
 not quite proverbs—that apply to Brad Dolan: "You can lead a horse to water
 but you can
 is one; 
t
 take him out" is another. In his thickheadedness he is also like Percy.
 When he made his comment about Alzheimer
s a great lot of them, and I think there
That Alzheimer

 
 I said,—but I
ll tell me, Brad.
It
 he said, and then burst out laughing, hucka
hucka-hucka-huck!, just like he does over those idiotic jokes of his.
 I didn
s; although there
32; it
m careful, I think I can keep even that sorted out. More or
 less.
 John Coffey came to E Block and the Green Mile in October of that year,
 condemned for the murder of the nine-year-old Detterick twins. That
Wild
 Bill
t.
 Percy hated it from the first.
 2 
The mouse came back just about three days after Percy had chased it down
 the Green Mile that first time. Dean Stanton and Bill Dodge were talking
 politics... which meant in those days, they were talking Roosevelt and Hoover
 —Herbert, not J. Edgar. They were eating Ritz crackers from a box Dean had
 purchased from old Toot-Toot an hour or so before. Percy was standing in the
 office doorway, practicing quick draws with the baton he loved so much, as
 he listened. He
d gotten
 somewhere, then twirl it (or try to; most times he would have dropped it if
 not for the rawhide loop he kept on his wrist), then re-holster it. I was off that
night, but got the full report from Dean the following evening.
 The mouse came up the Green Mile just as it had before, hopping along,
 then stopping and seeming to check the empty cells. After a bit of that it
 would hop on, undiscouraged, as if it had known all along it would be a long
 search, and it was up to that.
 The President was awake this time, standing at his cell door. That guy was
 a piece of work, managing to look natty even in his prison blues. We knew
 just by the way he looked that he wasn
s second run at that mouse, The Pres
Say!
There
 He was kind of laughing, but Dean said he also sounded
 kind of outraged, as if even a murder rap hadn
Shut up, you lugoon,
Son of a bitch,
I

 
s sort of cute,
And not afraid at all.
How do you know?
He was in the other night. Percy saw him, too. Brutal calls him Steamboat
 Willy.
Watch this,
He came all the way up to the desk before. I want
 to see if he

 It did, skirting wide of The Pres on its way, as if it didn
Good thing you guys don
 Bill said, interested
 in spite of himself. 
d have a hell of a time getting the clamps and the cap
 on.
He
 Bill said. He raised his
 voice a little. 

 The mouse flinched a little and fluttered its ears, but it didn
Now watch this,
I don
ll do it again, but—
Well. I
 Bill exclaimed. 

 
 Percy remarked, but
 neither guard paid him any mind. Neither did The Chief or The Pres, for that
 matter. The mouse finished the cracker but continued to sit, seemingly
 balanced on the talented coil of its tail, looking up at the giants in blue.
 
 Bill said. He broke off another piece of cracker, leaned over
 the front of the desk, and dropped it carefully. The mouse sniffed but did not
 touch.
 
 Bill said. 

 
 Dean said, 
re a floater, that

 
m here almost as much as Harry Terwilliger!
 Maybe more!
Simmer down, old-timer, simmer down,
But watch
 and see if I
 He bombed another piece of cracker over the side.
 Sure enough, the mouse picked that one up and began to eat again, still
 ignoring Bill Dodge
Willy's
t been as sharp as shards of broken glass. It ducked—yes, just
 as a human being would have—and dropped the chunk of cracker. The heavy
 hickory baton passed over its head and spine close enough so its fur ruffled
 (that
m not sure I
 really believe it), then hit the green linoleum and bounced against the bars of
 an empty cell. The mouse didn
s life, and it was still a near thing.
 Percy wanted not just to kill the mouse but to squash it, so he ran in big,
 comical leaps, like a deer, stamping down with his heavy black workshoes.
 The mouse barely avoided Percy
Fuck!
s middle
 name. Working with him was sort of like trying to defuse a bomb with
 somebody standing behind you and every now and then clashing a pair of
 cymbals together. In a word, upsetting. Dean said he could see that upset in
 Arlen Bitterbucks eyes... even in The President
t right was
 pretty much the perfect example of why he was all wrong for the job he
 thought he was doing.
 By the time Dean reached the end of the corridor, he had gotten himself
 under control again, and knew how he wanted to handle the matter. The one
 thing Percy absolutely couldn
Coises, foiled again,
Match your
 mouth, Four-Eyes. I
t make it worse.
So it
 Dean said, not quite laughing... but
 laughing with his eyes. 

 Percy looked at the door. Looked at his keys. Thought about another long,
 hot, fruitless rummage in the room with the soft walls while they all stood
 around and watched him... The Chief and The Pres, too.
 
ll be damned if I understand what
 he said. 
t need
 mice in the cellblock—we got enough vermin in here already, without adding
 mice.
Whatever you say, Percy,
Think you dropped this,
An inch lower, you woulda broken the
 little barstid

 Percy
Yeah, it wasn
 he said, carefully
 re-seating his headknocker in its foolish holster. 

 
 Bill said, and the respectful tone of voice (although he
 winked at Dean when Percy turned away) was enough to finish defusing the
 situation.
 
 Percy said. 
t
 know what hit em. Walked two. Could have had a perfect game if the ump
 hadn

 Dean could have left it at that, but he had seniority on Percy and part of a
 senior
s wrist. 
 Dean said. His intention, he said later, was to sound serious but not
 disapproving. Not too disapproving, anyway.
 Except with Percy, that didn
Say, Four-Eyes, I know what I was doing—trying to get that mouse!
 What

 
 Dean
 said, pointing in the direction of Bitterbuck and Flanders.
 
 Percy asked, drawing himself up. 
t in cradle-school, in
 case you didn

 
t like to be scared,
and I work here, Wetmore, in
 case you didn
t one of your lugoons.
And we don
re under a
 lot of strain,
Men that are
 under a lot of strain can snap. Hurt themselves. Hurt others. Sometimes get
 folks like us in trouble, too.
s mouth twitched at that. "In trouble" was an idea that had power over
 him. Making trouble was okay. Getting into it was not.
 
 Dean said. 

 Percy knew who had written that scripture—me. The boss. There was no
 love lost between Percy Wetmore and Paul Edgecombe, and this was still
 summer, remember—long before the real festivities started.
 
ll do better,
if you think of this place as like an intensive
care ward in a hospital. It

 
 Percy said, 
s all.
 Now let me go.
s hand, stepped between him and Bill, and stalked up
 the corridor with his head down. He walked a little too close to The
 President
t, of course, but The
 Chief perhaps was. The Chief, if given a chance, might have administered
 such a beating just to teach Percy a lesson. What Dean said to me on that
subject when he told me this story the following night has stuck with me ever
 since, because it turned out to be a kind of prophecy. 
t
 understand that he hasn
 Dean said. 
s going to be a
 danger to himself and to everyone else down here.
My, my,
Ain

 
t know the half of it,
Oh, look on the bright side,
Your trick mouse got away, at least.
Yeah, but we won
 Dean said. 
s scared him off for good.
s two nights off before
 he slid over to the graveyard shift.
 Steamboat Willy showed up around seven o
t so good, with the shouts and conversation
 (not to mention the occasional fist-fight) coming from the exercise yard, the
 chonk-chonk-chonk of the stamping machines in the plate-shop, the
 occasional yell of a guard for someone to put down that pick or grab up that
 hoe or just to get your ass over here, Harvey. After four it got a little better,
 and after six it got better still. Six to eight was the optimum time. After that
 you could see the long thoughts starting to steal over their minds again—in
 their eyes you could see it, like afternoon shadows—and it was best to stop.
 They still heard what you were saying, but it no longer made sense to them.
 Past eight they were getting ready for the watches of the night and imagining
how the cap would feel when it was clamped to the tops of their heads, and
 how the air would smell inside the black bag which had been rolled down
 over their sweaty faces.
 But I got The Chief at a good time. He told me about his first wife, and how
 they had built a lodge together up in Montana. Those had been the happiest
 days of his life, he said. The water was so pure and so cold that it felt like
 your mouth was cut every time you drank.
 
 he said. 

 
ve just about believed that very thing,
t
 regret in the least. I had learned of matters eternal at my mother
ll wink out... and probably glad to go they will be. But I
 never gave a hint of such beliefs to Bitterbuck, or to any of them. I think in
 their hearts they knew it. Where is your brother, his blood crieth to me from
 the ground, God said to Cain, and I doubt if the words were much of a
 surprise to that particular problem-child; I bet he heard Abel
d waited around just so he could, and I listened
 carefully. I always listened carefully when the subject was Percy, because I
 agreed with Dean a hundred per cent—I thought Percy was the sort of man
 who could cause a lot of trouble, as much for the rest of us as for himself.
 As Dean was finishing, old Toot-Toot came by with his red snack-wagon,
 which was covered with handlettered Bible quotes ("REPENT for the LORD
 shall judge his people," Deut. 32:36, "And surely your BLOOD of your lives
 will I require," Gen. 9:5, and similar cheery, uplifting sentiments), and sold
 us some sandwiches and pops. Dean was hunting for change in his pocket
 and saying that we wouldn
What
ere, then?
d come a little way; then stop, look around
 with his bright little oildrop eyes, then come on again.
 
 The Chief said, and the mouse stopped and looked at him,
 whiskers twitching. I tell you, it was exactly as if the damned thing knew it
 had been called. 
 Bitterbuck tossed the mouse
 a little morsel of cheese from his supper. It landed right in front of the mouse,
 but Steamboat Willy hardly even glanced at it, just came on his way again, up
 the Green Mile, looking in empty cells.
 
 The. President called. 
t here? I do, by God!
t going to say so out loud.
 Harry came out into the hall, hitching up his pants the way he always did
 after he
s judgment seat after our lives
 were over, but very few of us would be able to look so unafraid.
 
 Old Toot-Toot said. 

 
t seen nothing yet, Toot,
Watch this.
Don
 Dean said.

 Toot-Toot asked. 
t a mouse alive

 But I knew Dean was right, and I could see by Harry
t have a thing to do with it; sniffed it once and then backed off
 a pace.
 
ll be a goddamned son of a bitch,
Give it to me.
What—same sammitch?
Same one. I

 Toot-Toot handed it over. I lifted the top slice of bread, tore off another
 sliver of meat, and dropped it over the front of the duty desk. The mouse
 came forward at once. picked it up in its paws, and began to eat. The bologna
 was gone before you could say Jack Robinson.
 
ll be goddamned!
Bloody hell! Gimme dat!
Go on, eat it!
What

 Dean took the sandwich and dropped a piece of meat—by then it was like
 some strange communion service. The mouse picked it up at once and bolted
 it down. Then it turned and went back down the corridor to the restraint
 room, pausing along the way to peer into a couple of empty cells and to take
 a brief investigatory tour of a third. Once again the idea that it was looking
 for someone occurred to me, and this time I dismissed the thought more
 slowly.
 
m not going to talk about this,
First of all, nobody
t believe me
 if they did.
He only ate from you fellas,
Now why he do dat?
I
 Harry said. 
d he know Percy was off?
He didn
 I said. 

 Except that got harder and harder to believe as the days went by and the
 mouse showed up only when Percy was off, on another shift, or in another
 part of the prison. We—Harry, Dean, Brutal, and me—decided that it must
 know Percy
t believe but because they wouldn
s head with a
 cement block. At issue had been a pair of boots. So, on July seventeenth of
 that rainy summer, my council of elders intended for his life to end.
 Visiting hours for most Cold Mountain prisoners were as rigid as steel
 beams, but that didn
t make much protest over being put in the switch room with Jack
 Van Hay for the Bitterbuck electrocution; he was too green to know if he was
 being given a good spot or a bad one. What he did know was that he had a
 rectangular mesh window to look through, and although he probably didn
s
 office. I
re getting ready to pull the switch on some poor
 innocent sap, but ours never rang during all my years on E Block, never once.
 In the movies, salvation is cheap. So is innocence. You pay a quarter, and a
 quarter
s dummy down in the tunnel for the run to the meatwagon,
 and we had Old Toot-Toot for the rest. Over the years, Toot had somehow
 become the traditional stand-in for the condemned, as time-honored in his
 way as the goose you sit down to on Christmas, whether you like goose or
 not. Most of the other screws liked him, were amused by his funny accent—
 also French, but Canadian rather than Cajun, and softened into its own thing
 by his years of incarceration in the South. Even Brutal got a kick out of Old
 Toot. Not me, though. I thought he was, in his way, an older and dimmer
 version of Percy Wetmore, a man too squeamish to kill and cook his own
 meat but who did, all the same, just love the smell of a barbecue.
 We were all there for the rehearsal, just as we would all be there for the
 main event. Brutus Howell had been "put out," as we said, which meant that
 he would place the cap, monitor the governor
t go well, Brutal would be blamed by the witnesses and I
 would be blamed by the warden. Neither of us complained about this; it
 wouldn
s all. You can hold on
 and turn with it, or stand up to protest and be spun right off.
 Dean, Harry Terwilliger, and I walked down to The Chief
s bunk, his wispy white hair flying.
 
 Toot-Toot remarked. 
 be
 tryin to get rid of it before you fellas boil it off.
Shut up, Toot,
Let

 
 Toot-Toot said, immediately composing his face into an expression
of thunderous gravity. But his eyes twinkled. Old Toot never looked so alive
 as when he was playing dead.
 I stepped forward. 

 Toot got off the bunk. 
m steppin forward, I
m steppin
 forward,
Turn around,
s head would be shaved
 tomorrow night, and Dean
t need
 a touch-up. Stubble could impede conduction, make things harder.
 Everything we were doing today was about making things easier.
 
s go,
I
m walkin down the corridor, I
 Toot said. I flanked him on the left, Dean on the right.
 Harry was directly behind him. At the head of the corridor we turned right,
 away from life as it was lived in the exercise yard and toward death as it was
 died in the storage room. We went into my office, and Toot dropped to his
 knees without having to be asked. He knew the script, all right, probably
 better than any of us. God knew he
I
m prayin, I
 Toot-Toot said, holding his gnarled
 hands up. They looked like that famous engraving, you probably know the
 one I mean. 
n so forth.
Who
 Harry asked. 
re not going to have some
 Cherokee medicine man in here shaking his dick, are we?
Actually—
Still prayin, still prayin, still gettin right with Jesus,
Shut up, you old gink,
I

 

 
s keepin you guys?
Hold your friggin water!
Don

 
 Toot said, grinning his unpleasant sunken grin. 


s a Christian—he says,
and he
s fast, and he doesn

 
 Toot said. 

 Short as he was, he still had to duck a little to get through the door on the
 far side of the office. The rest of us had to duck even more. This was a
 vulnerable time with a real prisoner, and when I looked across to the platform
 where Old Sparky stood and saw Brutal with his gun drawn, I nodded with
 satisfaction. Just right.
 Toot-Toot went down the steps and stopped. The folding wooden chairs,
 about forty of them, were already in place. Bitterbuck would cross to the
 platform on an angle that would keep him safely away from the seated
 spectators, and half a dozen guards would be added for insurance. Bill Dodge
 would be in charge of those. We had never had a witness menaced by a
 condemned prisoner in spite of what was, admittedly, a raw set-up, and that
 was how I meant to keep it.
 
 Toot asked when we were back in our original formation at
 the foot of the stairs leading down from my office. I nodded, and we walked
 to the platform. What we looked like more than anything, I often thought,
 was a color-guard that had forgotten its flag.
 
 Percy called from behind the wire mesh
 between the storage room and the switch room.
 
 I called back.
 
 Harry muttered. Toot-Toot heard him,
 though, and cackled.
 We escorted him up onto the platform and Toot turned around on his own
 —the old vet in action. 
 he said, 
s lap.
it could have been worse
t much comfort to
 a man with a ruptured larynx. Or writhing on the floor with his balls swelling
 up to the size of Mason jars, for that matter, while forty or so spectators—
 many of them gentlemen of the press—sit in those Grange-hall chairs,
 watching the whole thing.
 We clamped Toot-Toot
s side was slightly
 bigger, because it carried the juice. When Bitterbuck sat down tomorrow
 night, he would do so with a shaved left calf. Indians have very little body
hair as a rule, but we would take no chances.
 While we were clamping Toot-Toots ankles, Brutal secured his right wrist.
 Harry stepped smoothly forward and clamped the left. When they were done,
 Harry nodded to Brutal, and Brutal called back to Van Hay: 

 I heard Percy asking Jack Van Hay what that meant (it was hard to believe
 how little he knew, how little he
s murmur of explanation. Today Roll on one meant nothing, but
 when he heard Brutal say it tomorrow night, Van Hay would turn the knob
 that goosed the prison generator behind B Block. The witnesses would hear
 the genny as a steady low humming, and the lights all over the prison would
 brighten. In the other cellblocks, prisoners would observe those overbright
 lights and think it had happened, the execution was over, when in fact it was
 just beginning.
 Brutal stepped around the chair so that Toot could see him. 

 
 Toot said, eyes gleaming, lips bunched in a toothless happy grin. 

 Brutal tried to hold onto his stem expression, but it was impossible. He
 threw back his head and began laughing. Dean collapsed onto the edge of the
 platform like he
Shut up, Brutal,
You too, Dean. Harry and Toot, the next remark
 like that to come out of your mouth will be your last. I

 Toot gave me a grin as if to say that was a good 
un. It faltered into a narrow, puzzled look when he saw I wasn
What
 he asked.
 
s not funny,
That
s wrong with me, and if you
 Except it was funny, in
 its way, and I suppose that was what had really made me mad.
 I looked around, saw Brutal staring at me, still grinning a little.
 
 I said, 
m getting too old for this job.
Nah,
You
 But I wasn
s smart-aleck remark
 tomorrow night and getting going again. You
Are you going to be quiet, Toot?
Yes,
s oldest, poutiest child.
 I nodded to Brutal that he should get on with the rehearsal. He took the
 mask from the brass hook on the back of the chair and rolled it down over
 Toot Toot
t. Tomorrow he would tuck it into the cap perched on the back of the
 chair. Not today, though; there was no need to get Toot
s helmet. Brutal put it on Old Toot-Toot
Gettin the cap. gettin the cap, gettin the cap,
Arlen Bitterbuck, electricity shall now be passed through your body
 until you are dead, in accordance with state law. May God have mercy on
 your soul.
Roll on two.
s actual customers almost
 never did. 
m fryin!
Fryin! Fryyyin! Geeeaah! I

 Harry and Dean, I saw, were not watching this at all. They had turned away
 from Sparky and were looking across the empty storage room at the door
 leading back into my office. 
ll be goddamned,
One of the
 witnesses came a day early.
a good one
t
 allow it. They might catch fire and burn. I didn
t one of those, thank God. He walked strong up the Green Mile to my
 office, and there he dropped to his knees to pray with Brother Schuster, who
 had driven down from the Heavenly Light Baptist Church in his flivver.
Schuster gave The Chief a few psalms, and The Chief started to cry when
 Schuster got to the one about lying down beside the still waters. It wasn
s when they don
t get up from their knees again without help, but The Chief
 did okay in that department. He swayed a little at first, like he was
 lightheaded, and Dean put out a hand to steady him, but Bitterbuck had
 already found his balance again on his own, so out we went.
 Almost all the chairs were occupied, with the people in them murmuring
 quietly among themselves, like folks do when they
t
 know if it was any one person in particular that bothered him, or all of them
 together, but I could hear a low moaning start up in his throat, and all at once
 the arm I was holding had a drag in it that hadn
s retreat if Bitterbuck all at once decided he wanted to go hard.
 I tightened my grip on his elbow and tapped the inside of his arm with one
 finger. 
 I said out of the corner of my mouth, not moving my
 lips. 

 He glanced at me sideways and gave a little nod. Then he took one of the
 braids his daughter had made and kissed it. I looked to Brutal, standing at
 parade rest behind the chair, resplendent in his best blue uniform, all the
 buttons on the tunic polished and gleaming, his hat sitting square-john perfect
 on his big head. I gave him a little nod and he shot it right back, stepping
 forward to help Bitterbuck mount the platform if he needed help. Turned out
 he didn
Roll on two!
t have noticed it
 if you hadn
S HAIR DRIER. There was a low humming
 from the cap, and Bitterbuck surged forward against the clamps and the
restraining belt across his chest. Over against the wall, the prison doctor
 watched expressionlessly, lips thinned until his mouth looked like a single
 white stitch. There was no flopping and flailing, such as Old Toot-Toot had
 done at rehearsal, only that powerful forward surge, as a man may surge
 forward from the hips while in the grip of a powerful orgasm. The Chief
ve never been able to go down in the cellar at my granddaughter
s where their little boy has his Lionel
 set-up, which he would dearly love to share with his great-grampa. I don
m sure you can guess—it
t abide.
 The way it hums. And the way, when it gets hot, it smells. Even after all
 these years, that smell reminds me of Cold Mountain.
 Van Hay gave him thirty seconds, then turned the juice off. The doctor
 stepped forward from his place and listened with his stethoscope. There was
 no talk from the witnesses now. The doctor straightened up and looked
 through the mesh. 
 he said, and made a twirling, cranking
 gesture with one finger. He had heard a few random heartbeats from
 Bitterbuck
t want him suddenly
 sitting up on the gurney when you had him halfway through the tunnel,
 bawling that he felt like he was on fire.
 Van Hay rolled on three and The Chief surged forward again, twisting a
 little from side to side in the grip of the current. When doc listened this time,
 he nodded. It was over. We had once again succeeded in destroying what we
 could not create. Some of the folks in the audience had begun talking in those
 low voices again; most sat with their heads down, looking at the floor, as if
 stunned. Or ashamed.
 Harry and Dean came up with the stretcher. It was actually Percy
t know and no one had bothered to tell him. The
 Chief, still wearing the black silk hood, was loaded onto it by Brutal and me,
 and we whisked him through the door which led to the tunnel as fast as we
 could manage it without actually running. Smoke—too much of it—was
 rising from the hole in the top of the mask, and there was a horrible stench.
 
 Percy cried, his voice wavering. 
s that smell?
Just get out of my way and stay out of it,
t as bad as it could have been; Bitterbuck
Never mind that thing,
t want to have to clean a load of
 chemical slime off the dead man
s head (Percy staring at me, wide-eyed,
 the whole time) until the smoke quit rising. Then we carried the body down
 the twelve wooden steps to the tunnel. Here it was as chilly and dank as a
 dungeon, with the hollow plink-plink sound of dripping water. Hanging lights
 with crude tin shades—they were made in the prison machine-shop—showed
 a brick tube that ran thirty feet under the highway. The top was curved and
 wet. It made me feel like a character in an Edgar Allan Poe story every time I
 used it.
 There was a gurney waiting. We loaded Bitterbuck
s cheek. The flat smacking sound of his hand
 made us all jump. Percy looked around at us with a cocky smile on his
 mouth, eyes glittering. Then he looked back at Bitterbuck again. 
 he said. 
s hot enough for you.
Don
 Brutal said, his voice hollow and declamatory in the
 dripping tunnel. 
s paid what he owed. He

 
 Percy said, but he stepped back uneasily when Brutal
 moved toward him, shadow rising behind him like the shadow of that ape in
 the story about the Rue Morgue. But instead of grabbing at Percy, Brutal
 grabbed hold of the gurney and began pushing Arlen Bitterbuck slowly
 toward the far end of the tunnel, where his last ride was waiting, parked on
 the soft shoulder of the highway. The gurney
s face,
 which had already begun to take on the waxy, characterless cast of all dead
 faces, the innocent as well as the guilty.
6 
When I was eighteen, my Uncle Paul—the man I was named for—died of a
 heart attack. My mother and dad took me to Chicago with them to attend his
 funeral and visit relatives from my father
d
 said because I was afraid cowardice would make me stop. I didn
s breathless disregard of the consequences. I often
 wondered if Janice kept that letter, but never quite got up enough courage to
 ask. All I know for sure is that I did not find it when I went through her
 things after the funeral, and of course that by itself means nothing. I suppose
 I never asked because I was afraid of discovering that burning epistle meant
 less to her than it did to me.
 It was four pages long, I thought I would never write anything longer in my
 life, and now look at this. All this, and the end still not in sight. If I
t realize was how many doors the act of writing unlocks, as if my Dad
t really a pen at all, but some strange variety of
 skeleton key. The mouse is probably the best example of what I
t
 think that ever occurred to me, not to my conscious mind, anyway, until I
 began to write and remember.
 I guess what I
t realize how far back I
d have to leave him there
 in his cell, a man so huge his feet didn
t want you to forget him, all right? I
want you to see him there, looking up at the ceiling of his cell, weeping his
 silent tears, or putting his arms over his face. I want you to hear him, his
 sighs that trembled like sobs, his occasional watery groan. These weren
t say what feels true to your heart—in a way it was as if it
 was sorrow for the whole world he felt, something too big ever to be
 completely eased. Sometimes I sat and talked to him, as I did with all of them
 —talking was our biggest, most important job, as I believe I have said—and I
 tried to comfort him. I don
s damn uncle, not mine) and asking for a stay of execution. We
 shouldn
d say It
t do to
 him.
 It
d have you keep to one side of your mind while I
 finish catching up to where I started—that John Coffey lying on his bunk,
 that John Coffey who was afraid of the dark perhaps with good reason, for in
 the dark might not two shapes with blonde curls—no longer little girls but
 avenging harpies—be waiting for him? That John Coffey whose eyes were
 always streaming tears, like blood from a wound that can never heal.
 7 
So The Chief burned and The President walked—as far as C Block,
 anyway, which was home to most of Cold Mountain
t suppose it mattered much to the inmates—
 wars is walls, as the cons say, and Old Sparky was every bit as lethal in his
 own little stone death chamber, I reckon, as he
He got
 commuted mostly because he was white,
but he got it in the
 end, just the same. I just think of it as a long stay of execution that finally ran
 out.
t around), the other guys would show up to have what Harry liked to
 call "a good gab." On many of these occasions the mouse would also show
 up. We
d sit there eating, just as solemn as Solomon,
 watching us with his bright little oilspot eyes.
 That was a good few weeks, calm and easy even with Percy
Hey! Quit it! For Chrissakes! Quit it, Percy!
s bunk, but I was
 up in a hurry, my heart slugging away hard in my chest. Noise of that kind on
 E Block almost never happened until Percy came; he brought it along with
 him like a bad smell.
 
 Percy yelled, ignoring Brutal
 completely. And here he came, dragging a guy not much bigger than a
bowling pin by one arm. In his other hand, Percy had his baton. His teeth
 were bared in a strained grimace, and his face was bright red. Yet he did not
 look entirely unhappy. Delacroix was trying to keep up with him, but he had
 the legirons on, and no matter how fast he shuffled his feet, Percy pulled him
 along faster. I sprang out of the cell just in time to catch him as he fell, and
 that was how Del and I were introduced.
 Percy rounded on him, baton raised, and I held him back with one arm.
 Brutal came puffing up to us, looking as shocked and nonplussed by all this
 as I felt.
 
t let him hit me no mo, m
 Delacroix babbled. 
il vous pla t, s

 
 Percy cried, lunging forward. He began to hit at
 Delacroix
s darling, but that
Whoa! Whoa!
Quit that! What
 I was
 trying to get my body in between Delacroix
s, but it wasn
s club continued to flail away, now on one side of
 me and now on the other. Sooner or later he was going to bring one down on
 me instead of on his intended target, and then there was going to be a brawl
 right here in this corridor, no matter who his relations were. I wouldn
d done it. It might have changed some of the things that happened
 later on.
 
ll teach you to keep your hands off me, you lousy bum
puncher!
t like him very much, but that was the first time I fully understood how
 out of control he was.
 He stood watching me, not entirely without fear—he was a coward at heart,
 I never had any doubt of that—but still confident that his connections would
 protect him. In that he was correct. I suspect there are people who wouldn
ve said, but they would be people
 who only know the phrase Great Depression from the history books. If you
 were there, it was a lot more than a phrase in a book, and if you had a steady
 job, brother, you
s face a little by then, but his cheeks were
 still flushed, and his hair, which was usually swept back and gleaming with
 brilliantine, had tumbled over his forehead.
 
 I asked. 

 

 Percy said. 
d do it again.
t imagine the most
 predatory homosexual on God
Get out of here,
I

 
 he demanded truculently. 

 I didn
The matter
 I finished. I saw Brutal looking at me disapprovingly,
 but ignored it. 
re
 supposed to read letters and help in the package room.
Sure.
I ain
 he said, then jumped as one of Brutal
Yes you are,
Now go on. Get in the breeze.
You don
 Percy said. 
 His eyes shifted to
 me. 
 But we did. You could see that in his eyes as clear as day,
 and it made him even more dangerous. A guy like Percy doesn
d treat him jake if he did
 the same for us. That little homily was not what you
t think he heard one word in six.
 Probably just as well. I don

 book. 
s sake?
Christ almighty Jesus,
I never want to
 have another hooraw like that with a prisoner coming on the block.
My Daddy always used to say things come in threes,
Well, I hope your Daddy was full of shit on that subject,
t. There was a squall when John Coffey came in, and a
 fullblown storm when "Wild Bill" joined us—it
ll get to shortly;
 fair warning.
 
s this about Delacroix copping his joint?
He was ankle-chained and ole Percy was just pulling him
 too fast, that
s pants. It was a complete
accident.
Did Percy know that, do you think?
Was he maybe using it as an
 excuse just because he felt like whaling on Delacroix a little bit? Showing
 him who bosses the shooting match around here?
Yeah. I think that was probably it.
We have to watch him, then,
t hard enough. 

 
t understand
 him. He
s appointments? Surely his people could
d asked them, so why here?
t know. There were a lot of things I didn
t hurry with John Coffey; they
t my
 first interview with Percy on the subject of his behavior, and it wouldn
You stay away from him, now, you hear?
Unless I give you a
 specific order, just stay the hell away from him.
I wasn
 he said.
 
 Percy
 gave me a round-eyed, innocent stare.
 
ll be a report,
Make any report you want,
Then I
ll see who comes off
 the best.
Brutus Howell doesn
 I said. 
t like someone, he
t much shakes with a pen, and he can
s apt to report with his fists. If you know what I
 mean.
s complacent little smile faltered. 

 
m not trying to say anything. I have said it. And if you tell any of
 your...friends... about this discussion, I
 I
 looked at him all wide-eyed and earnest. 
m trying to be your
 friend, Percy. A word to the wise is sufficient, they say. And why would you
 want to get into it with Delacroix in the first place? He

 And for awhile that worked. There was peace. A couple of times I was even
 able to send Percy with Dean or Harry when Delacroix
s cell to see what he possibly had to laugh
 about.
 
n
I done tame me a mouse!
s cell. More: he was sitting on
 Delacroix
t have known it
 was the same man who
Watch dis!
s head, using the man
s left
 shoulder, and curled his tail around his feet again.
 
ll be damned,
I train him to do that,
s ass you
 did, but kept my mouth shut. 

 
 Harry said goodnaturedly. 
s Steamboat Willy, like in the pitcher
show. Boss Howell named him.
It
 Delacroix said. On any other subject he would have told
 you that shit was Shinola, if you wanted him to, but on the subject of the
 mouse
He whisper it in my ear. Cap
 so he can sleep in here
 wit me?
I put him under my bunk and he never be a scrid of trouble, not
 one.
Your English gets a hell of a lot better when you want something,
Oh-oh,
Here comes trouble.
t look like trouble to me, not that night. He wasn
d seen
 him that way, and it was amazing, what a change a little thing like that could
 make. Mostly, though, what struck me was the expression on his face. There
 was a calmness there. Not serenity—I don
d
 had to threaten with Brutus Howell
t see the change, though; he cringed against the wall of his
 cell, drawing his knees up to his chest. His eyes seemed to grow until they
 were taking up half his face. The mouse scampered up on his bald pate and
 sat there. I don
s fear, and reacting off that.
 
 Percy said. 

Delacroix tried to reply—some hollow defiance about what would happen
 to Percy if Percy hurt his new pal would have been my guess—but nothing
 came out. His lower lip trembled a little, but that was all. On top of his head,
 Mr. Jingles wasn
s hair and his front ones splayed on Delacroix
d size up an old enemy.
 Percy looked at me. 
t that the same one I chased? The one that lives in
 the restraint room?
t seen the newly named Mr. Jingles
 since that last chase, and he showed no signs of wanting to chase it now.
 
s the one,
Only Delacroix there says his name is Mr.
 Jingles, not Steamboat Willy. Says the mouse whispered it in his ear.
Is that so,
Wonders never cease, do they?
Delacroix there
 was just asking for a box, Percy. He thinks that mouse will sleep in it, I
 guess. That he can keep it for a pet.
What do you think
 about that?
I think it
s sleeping and
 then run away,
but I guess that
s lookout.
 I seen a pretty nice cigar box on Toot-Toot
t know
 if he

 Now I did risk a glance at Harry, and saw his mouth hanging open. This
 wasn
d been able.
 
 he asked.
 
 Delacroix said. 
il est bon.
I
 Percy said. 
ll sneak some cotton batting out of the
 dispensary to line it with. We
re through.
I
 he said. 

 
 I said. 

 
s aces,
Is he sick, do you think?
Maybe went to his doctor and found out he

 I told him I didn
 Correctional. It
 was one of those meals where you drink too much and eat too little, and
 tongues get loosened. Hal told me that Percy had been in to complain about
 me and about life on the Mile in general. This was just after Delacroix came
 on the block, and Brutal and I had kept Percy from beating him half to death.
 What had griped Percy the most was me telling him to get out of my sight.
 He didn
s execution. That he would, in fact, be placed right beside the chair.
 I would be in charge, as always, but the witnesses wouldn
t promising any more than what we
d
 gone along with, but Percy didn
s old nemesis as a pet. It
s
 case, all Warden Moores had to offer was the chance to take a bald little
 Frenchman
s hands the day after
 Delacroix
Six cents might or might not be enough if you was
 speaking about selling that cigar box, we could have a good old barber-shop
 argument about that,
but you have to admit it
s gonna walk the Mile in a month, six weeks at the very
 outside. Why, that box
s gone.
He could get a soft-hearted judge to give im a stay and still be here to sing
 "Should old acquaintances be forgot," Toot said, but he knew better and
 Brutal knew he did. Old Toot-Toot had been pushing that damned Bible
quoting cart of his around Cold Mountain since Pony Express days,
 practically, and he had plenty of sources, better than ours, I thought then. He
 knew Delacroix was fresh out of soft-hearted judges. All he had left to hope
 for was the governor, who as a rule didn
Even if he don
d be shitting in that box until
 October, maybe even Thanksgiving,
Who gonna buy a cigar box some mouse been using for a
 toilet?
Oh jeez-Louise,
That
ve ever heard you
 say, Toot. I mean, that takes the cake. First, Delacroix will keep the box clean
 enough to eat a church dinner out of—the way he loves that mouse, he
s what it took.
Easy on dat stuff,
Second,
mouse-shit is no big deal, anyway. It

 Old Toot knew better than to carry his protest any further; he
d do better to bend in the hurricane. This wasn
s eyes as he
 reached out through the bars to take them. He was afraid Percy would grab
 his hand and break his fingers. I was a little afraid of it too, but no such thing
 happened. That was the closest I ever came to liking Percy, but even then it
 was hard to mistake the look of cool amusement in his eyes. Delacroix had a
 pet; Percy had one too. Delacroix would keep his, petting it and loving it as
 long as he could; Percy would wait patiently (as patiently as a man like him
 could anyway), and then burn his alive.
 
 Harry said. 

 That question was answered as soon as Delacroix caught Mr. Jingles up in
 one hand and lowered him gently into the box. The mouse snuggled into the
 white cotton as if it were Aunt Bea
ll get to the end of Mr. Jingles
s east
 corner and found a little pile of mouse turds back there. He had always gone
 back to the same place to do his business, seemingly, and as far from us as he
 could get. Here
re
 eating. I told you, the damned thing was one of God
s earth, as far as that half-pint
Cajun was concerned—but this time what he was up to really was sort of
 amusing.
 Delacroix had been pretty much forgotten by the world following his
 conviction, but he had one relation—an old maiden aunt, I believe—who
 wrote him once a week. She had also sent him an enormous bag of
 peppermint candies, the sort which are marketed under the name Canada
 Mints these days. They looked like big pink pills. Delacroix was not allowed
 to have the whole bag at once, naturally—it was a five-pounder, and he
 would have gobbled them until he had to go to the infirmary with stomach
gripes. Like almost every murderer we ever had on the Mile, he had
 absolutely no understanding of moderation. We
t get me wrong; it was funny, a real hoot. The candy was
 half the size of Mr. Jingles, and his whitefurred belly was already distended
 from it.
 
 Brutal said, half-laughing and half
horrified. 
ll eat till he busts. I can smell that
 peppermint from here. How many have you let him have?
This his second,
s
 belly. 
 his guts?
Might,
t understand it,
 either. Then Mr. Jingles plopped down into his box and lay there on his side
 in an exhausted way that made all three of us laugh. After that, we got used to
 seeing the mouse sitting beside Delacroix, holding a mint and munching
 away on it just as neatly as an old lady at an afternoon tea-party, both of them
 surrounded by what I later smelled in that hole in the beam—the half-bitter,
 half-sweet smell of peppermint candy.
 There
d pretty much decided Delacroix wasn
Watch this, Boss Edgecombe,
You gonna see what Mr. Jingles
 can do!
Where
 I asked him, although I supposed I knew. There was
 really only one person he could have gotten it from.
 
 he said. 

 I was already watching, and could see Mr. Jingles in his box, standing up
 with his small front paws propped on the edge, his black eyes fixed on the
 spool Delacroix was holding between the thumb and first finger of his right
 hand. I felt a funny little chill go up my back. I had never seen a mere mouse
 attend to something with such sharpness—with such intelligence. I don
m sorry, but I have never doubted that he was a genius
 of his kind.
 Delacroix bent over and rolled the threadless spool across the floor of his
 cell. It went easily, like a pair of wheels connected by an axle. The mouse
 was out of his box in a flash and across the floor after it, like a dog chasing
 after a stick. I exclaimed with surprise, and Delacroix grinned.
 The spool hit the wall and rebounded. Mr. Jingles went around it and
 pushed it back to the bunk, switching from one end of the spool to the other
 whenever it looked like it was going to veer off-course. He pushed the spool
 until it hit Delacroix
You taught him that,
Yessir, Boss Edgecombe,
He fetch it every time. Smart as hell, ain

 
 I asked. 


 Delacroix said serenely. 

 Delacroix showed all the other guys his mouse
t matter that Percy had suggested the cigar box and
 procured the cotton with which to line it. Delacroix was like some dogs: kick
 them once and they never trust you again, no matter how nice you are to
 them.
 I can hear Delacroix now, yelling, Hey, you guys! Come and see what Mr.
 Jingles can do! And them going down in a bluesuit cluster—Brutal, Harry,
 Dean, even Bill Dodge. All of them had been properly amazed, too, the same
 as I had been.
 Three or four days after Mr. Jingles started doing the trick with the spool,
 Harry Terwilliger rummaged through the arts and crafts stuff we kept in the
 restraint room, found the Crayolas, and brought them to Delacroix with a
 smile that was almost embarrassed. 
 he said. 
d be like a circus mouse,
 or something.
A circus mouse!
That just what he is, too! A circus mouse! When I get outta
 here, he gonna make me rich, like inna circus! You see if he don

 Percy Wetmore would no doubt have pointed out to Delacroix that when he
 left Cold Mountain, he
t need to run its
 light or siren, but Harry knew better. He just told Delacroix to make the spool
 as colorful as he could as quick as he could, because he
Maintenant, m
 amusant et amazeant!
t exactly it, but it gives you an idea of that stewpot French of his. Then
 he
s brightly colored spool were our chief amusements
 at the time that John Coffey came into our care and custody, and that was the
way things remained for awhile. Then my urinary infection, which had lain
 still for awhile, came back, and William Wharton arrived, and all hell broke
 loose.
 10 
The dates have mostly slipped out of my head. I suppose I could have my
 granddaughter, Danielle, look some of them out of the old newspaper files,
 but what would be the point? The most important of them, like the day we
 came down to Delacroix
s better to go on just as I have
 been; in the end, I guess the dates don
s DOE
 papers finally came to me from Curtis Anderson
s date with Old Sparky had been advanced from when we
 had expected, a thing that was almost unheard of, even in those days when
 you didn
t hold me to it exactly, but I know that
s usually reliable sources had thought it would
 (when it came to Wild Billy, nothing was reliable, we would soon discover,
 including our time-tested and supposedly foolproof methods of prisoner
 control). Then, after he had been found guilty—that much, at least, went
 according to the script—he was taken to Indianola General Hospital for tests.
 He had had a number of supposed seizures during the trial, twice serious
 enough to send him crashing to the floor, where he lay shaking and flopping
 and drumming his feet on the boards. Wharton
epilepsy spells
epilepsy spells
s a blue-eyed wonder that Wharton didn
s wife, Melinda, was in the same hospital at the
 same time did not escape any of us), but he didn
t. The doctors found nothing wrong with his brain—
 physiologically, at least—and Billy "the Kid" Wharton was at last bound for
 Cold Mountain. That might have been around the sixteenth or the eighteenth;
 it
t getting better, as I had hoped. It had been a brief turn
 for the better, that was all, and it was over.
 I went out to the privy to do my business—this was at least three years
 before we put in our first water-closet—and had gotten no further than the
 woodpile at the comer of the house when I realized I couldn
t grabbed one of the woodpile logs with my left hand. All that,
 though, could have been going on in Australia, or even on another planet. All
 I was concerned with was the pain that had set me on fire; my lower belly
 was burning, and my penis—an organ which had gone mostly forgotten by
 me except when providing me the most intense physical pleasure a man can
 experience—now felt as if it were melting; I expected to look down and see
 blood gushing from its tip, but it appeared to be a perfectly ordinary stream of
 urine.
 I hung onto the woodpile with one hand and put the other across my mouth,
 concentrating on keeping my mouth shut. I did not want to frighten my wife
awake with a scream. It seemed that I went on pissing forever, but at last the
 stream dried up. By then the pain had sunk deep into my stomach and my
 testicles, biting like rusty teeth. For a long while—it might have been as long
 as a minute—I was physically incapable of getting up. At last the pain began
 to abate, and I struggled to my feet. I looked at my urine, already soaking into
 the ground, and wondered if any sane God could make a world where such a
 little bit of dampness could come at the cost of such horrendous pain.
 I would call in sick, I thought, and go see Dr. Sadler after all. I didn
s sulfa tablets, but anything would
 be better than kneeling beside the woodpile, trying not to scream while my
 prick was reporting that it had apparently been doused with coal-oil and set
 afire.
 Then, as I was swallowing aspirin in our kitchen and listening to Jan snore
 lightly in the other room, I remembered that today was the day William
 Wharton was scheduled on the block, and that Brutal wouldn
t feel right about in spite of my pain was leaving Wharton to
 Dean and Harry. They were good men, but Curtis Anderson
t care, he had written, underlining for emphasis.
 By then the pain had abated some, and I could think. The best idea, it
 seemed to me, was to leave for the prison early. I could get there at six, which
 was the time Warden Moores usually came in. He could get Brutus Howell
 reassigned to E Block long enough for Wharton
d make my
 long-overdue trip to the doctor. Cold Mountain was actually on my way.
 Twice on the twenty-mile ride to the Penitentiary that sudden need to
 urinate overcame me. Both times I was able to pull over and take care of the
 problem without embarrassing myself (for one thing, traffic on country roads
 at such an hour was all but nonexistent). Neither of these two voidings was as
 painful as the one that had taken me off my feet on the way to the privy, but
 both times I had to clutch the passenger-side doorhandle of my little Ford
 coupe to hold myself up, and I could feel sweat running down my hot face. I
 was sick, all right, good and sick.
 I made it, though, drove in through the south gate, parked in my usual
 place, and went right up to see the warden. It was going on six o
s office was empty—she wouldn
s office; I could see it
 through the pebbled glass. I gave a perfunctory knock and opened the door.
 Moores looked up, startled to see anyone at that unusual hour, and I would
 have given a great deal not to have been the one to see him in that condition,
 with his face naked and unguarded. His white hair, usually so neatly combed,
 was sticking up in tufts and tangles; his hands were in it, yanking and pulling,
 when I walked in. His eyes were raw, the skin beneath them puffy and
 swollen. His palsy was the worst I had ever seen it; he looked like a man who
 had just come inside after a long walk on a terribly cold night.
 
m sorry, I
 I began.
 
 he said. 

 I did as he asked, forgetting my own pain for the first time since I
It
 Moores said. 
s ever gotten, at least so far; said they
s the
 size of a lemon, they said, and way down deep inside, where they can
ll be dead by Christmas. I haven
t think
 how. I can

 Then he began to cry, big, gasping sobs that filled me with both pity and a
 kind of terror—when a man who keeps himself as tightly guarded as Hal
 Moores finally does lose control, it
s office, I walked over to E Block instead
 of back to my car. The aspirin was working by then, and the pain in my
 midsection was down to a low throb. I would get through the day somehow, I
 reckoned, get Wharton settled in, check back with Hal Moores that afternoon,
and get my sick-leave for tomorrow. The worst was pretty much over, I
 thought, with no slightest idea that the worst of that day
t
 even begun.
 11 

 Dean said late that afternoon.
 His voice was low, rasping, almost a bark, and there were blackish-purple
 bruises rising on his neck. I could see it was hurting him to talk and thought
 of telling him to let it go, but sometimes it hurts more to be quiet. I judged
 that this was one of those times, and kept my own mouth shut. 
t we?
s eyes, as well: Harry and Dean would
 learn from their mistake. Especially Dean, who could easily have gone home
 to his family dead. Percy wouldn
t. All Percy could do
 was sit in the corner and sulk because he was in the shit again.
 There were seven of them that went up to Indianola to take charge of Wild
 Bill Wharton: Harry, Dean, Percy, two other guards in the back (I have
 forgotten their names, although I
t bothered to put Wharton in it; they left that to our boys. Wharton was
 dressed in a cotton hospital johnny and cheap felt slippers when they first met
him on the second floor of the General Hospital, a scrawny man with a
 narrow, pimply face and a lot of long, tangly blond hair. His ass, also narrow
 and also covered with pimples, stuck out the back of the johnny. That was the
 part of him Harry and the others saw first, because Wharton was standing at
 the window and looking out at the parking lot when they came in. He didn
ve ever met seems bound to do—about what was his job and
 what was not.
 When Harry got tired of that part (I doubt it took him long), he told
 Wharton to turn around. Wharton did. He looked, Dean told us in his raspy
 bark of a half-choked voice, like any one of a thousand backcountry
 stampeders who had wound their way through Cold Mountain during our
 years there. Boil that look down and what you got was a dullard with a mean
 steak. Sometimes you also discovered a yellow streak in them, once their
 backs were to the wall, but more often there was nothing there but fight and
 mean and then more fight and more mean. There are people who see nobility
 in folks like Billy Wharton, but I am not one of them. A rat will fight, too, if
 it is cornered. This man
Put this on,
t able to get very far
 without help. He managed the boxers, but when it came to the pants, he kept
 trying to put both legs into the same hole. Finally Dean helped him, getting
 his feet to go where they belonged and then yanking the trousers up, doing
 the fly, and snapping the waistband.. Wharton only stood there, not even
 trying to help once he saw that Dean was doing it for him. He stared vacantly
 across the room, hands lax, and it didn
t believe that was it) but
only in hopes of making the maximum amount of trouble when the right time
 came.
 The papers were signed. William Wharton, who had become county
 property when he was arrested, now became the state
t. If he thought (even now I
t been lulled by the stick
 thin country boy standing head-down there in the dirt with chains on his
 wrists and ankles. They marched him the twelve or so paces to the door that
 opened into E Block, falling into the same formation we used when escorting
 prisoners down the Green Mile. Harry was on his left, Dean was on his right,
 and Percy was behind, with his baton in his hand. No one told me that, but I
know damned well he had it out; Percy loved that hickory stick. As for me, I
 was sitting in what would be Wharton
t associate it with anything
 human at first; I thought a dog had gotten into the yard somehow and had
 been hurt; that perhaps some mean tempered con had hit it with a hoe.
 Wharton lifted his arms, dropped the chain which hung between his wrists
 over Dean
s ears, yanking the chain as tight as he
 could, whipsawing it back and forth.
 Harry landed on Wharton
s
 greasy blond hair and slamming his other fist into the side of Wharton
d had trouble with prisoners before, you
 bet, but never one who
s slyness was beyond our experience. I had never seen its like
 before, and have never seen it again.
 And he was strong. All that slack looseness was gone. Harry said later that
 it was like jumping onto a coiled nest of steel springs that had somehow
 come to life. Wharton, now inside and near the duty desk, whirled to his left
 and flung Harry off. Harry hit the desk and went sprawling.
 
 Wharton laughed. 
t this a party, now? Is it, or what?
Hit him, Percy, hit him!
d been looking for, you would have said, his golden
 opportunity to put that tallywhacker of his to good use, and he was too scared
 and confused to do it. This wasn
s cell, dropping my clipboard and pulling my.38. I
 had forgotten the infection that was heating up my middle for the second time
 that day. I didn
s blank face and
 dull eyes when they told it, but that wasn
t matter. The other thing I
 saw was Dean Stanton
d almost certainly
 have to hit one to hit the other. From over Dean
s Hands 
1 
Looking back through what I
t be
 very happy with that! According to the brochures they keep in the lobby and
 send out to prospective clients, its a "State-of-the-art retirement complex for
 the elderly." It even has a Resource Center—the brochure says so. The folks
 who have to live here (the brochure doesn
inmates,
m stand-offy because I don
s the programs I can
ll get down off my soapbox. It
d move two miles down to the Happy Wheels
 Motor Court, where the police cars always seem to be headed on Friday and
 Saturday nights with their sirens screaming and their blue lights flashing. My
 special friend, Elaine Connelly, feels the same way. Elaine is eighty, tall and
 slim, still erect and clear-eyed, very intelligent and refined. She walks very
 slowly because there
t think I
t reached such a grotesque age, I
 suppose I might speak of her as my ladyfriend. Still, having a special friend
 —just that—is not so bad, and in some ways, it
s strange, but it
t watch TV during the day. Sometimes I walk; sometimes I read;
 mostly what I
s more oxygen in that room,
 and it helps the old memory. It beats the hell out of Geraldo Rivera, I can tell
 you that.
 But when I can
s no Home Box Office or anything at Georgia Pines—I
 guess that
s the one (just in case you don
s sort of
 soothing. There have been a good many nights when I
Connor
 home where many of the residents wear diapers and rubber pants.
 There was nothing soothing about what I saw this morning, though.
 Nothing at all.
 Elaine sometimes joins me for AMC
t say much about it, but I know her arthritis
 hurts her something terrible, and that the drugs they give her don
Paul!
Paul, what

 
ll be all right,
t sound very convincing—they
 came out all uneven, through teeth that wanted to chatter. 
ll be right as rain.
I
 she
 said. 
s sake, Paul, you look like you saw a
 ghost.
t realize until her eyes widened that I
Not really.
But for a
 minute. Elaine—God!
Was it from the time when you were a guard at the prison?
The
 time that you

 I nodded. 

 

 
32, we got this fellow—we got this wildman—named William
 Wharton. Liked to think of himself as Billy the Kid, even had it tattooed on
 his arm. Just a kid, but dangerous. I can still remember what Curtis Anderson
 —he was the assistant warden back in those days—wrote about him. "Crazy
wild and proud of it. Wharton is nineteen years old, and he just doesn

 He'd underlined that part.'
 The hand which had gone around my shoulders was now rubbing my back.
 I was beginning to calm. In that moment I loved Elaine Connelly, and could
 have kissed her all over her face as I told her so. Maybe I should have. It's
 terrible to be alone and frightened at any age, but I think it's worst when
 you're old. But I had this other thing on my mind, this load of old and still
 unfinished business.
 'Anyway,' I said, 'you're right—I've been scribbling about how Wharton
 came on the block and almost killed Dean Stanton—one of the guys I worked
 with back then—when he did.'
 'How could he do that?' Elaine asked.
 'Meanness and carelessness,' I said grimly. 'Wharton supplied the
 meanness, and the guards who brought him in supplied the carelessness. The
 real mistake was Wharton's wrist-chain—it was a little too long. When Dean
 unlocked the door to E Block, Wharton was behind him. There were guards
on either side of him, but Anderson was right—Wild Billy just didn't care
 about such things. He dropped that wrist-chain down over Dean's head and
 started choking him with it.'
 Elaine shuddered.
 'Anyway, I got thinking about all that and couldn't sleep, so I came down
 here. I turned on AMC, thinking you might come down and we'd have us a
 little date—'
 She laughed and kissed my forehead just above the eyebrow. It used to
 make me prickle all over when Janice did that, and it still made me prickle all
 over when Elaine did it early this morning. I guess some things don't ever
 change.
 '—and what came on was this old black-and-white gangster movie from the
 forties. Kiss of Death, it's called.'
 I could feel myself wanting to start shaking again and tried to suppress it.
 'Richard Widmark's in it,' I said. 'It was his first big part, I think. I never
 went to see it with Jan—we gave the cops and robbers a miss, usually—but I
 remember reading somewhere that Widmark gave one hell of a performance
 as the punk. He sure did. He's pale... doesn't seem to walk so much as go
 gliding around... he's always calling people 'squirt'... talking about squealers
 how much he hates the squealers... '
 I was starting to shiver again in spite of my best efforts. I just couldn't help
 it.
 'Blond hair,' I whispered. 'Lank blond hair. I watched until the part where
 he pushed this old woman in a wheelchair down a flight of stairs, then I
 turned it off.'
 'He reminded you of Wharton?'
 'He was Wharton,' I said. 'To the life.'
 'Paul—' she began, and stopped. She looked at the blank screen of the TV
 (the cable box on top of it was still on, the red numerals still showing 10, the
 number of the AMC channel), then back at me.
 'What?' I asked. 'What, Elaine?' Thinking, She's going to tell, me I ought to
 quit writing about it. That I ought to tear up the pages I've written so far and
 just quit on it.
 What she said was 'Don't let this stop you.'
 I gawped at her.
 'Close your mouth, Paul—you'll catch a fly.'
 'Sorry. It's just that... well... '
'You thought I was going to tell you just the opposite, didn't you?'
 'Yes.'
 She took my hands in hers (gently, so gently—her long and beautiful
 fingers, her bunched and ugly knuckles) and leaned forward, fixing my blue
 eyes with her hazel ones, the left slightly dimmed by the mist of a coalescing
 cataract. 'I may be too old and brittle to live,' she said, 'but I'm not too old to
 think. What's a few sleepless nights at our age? What's seeing a ghost on the
 TV, for that matter? Are you going to tell me it's the only one you've ever
 seen?'
 I thought about Warden Moores, and Harry Terwilliger, and Brutus Howell;
 I thought about MY mother, and about Jan, my wife, who died in Alabama. I
 knew about ghosts, all right.
 'No,' I said. 'It wasn't the first ghost I've ever seen. But Elaine—it was a
 shock. Because it was him.'
 She kissed me again, then stood up, wincing as she did so and pressing the
 heels of her hands to the tops of her hips, as if she were afraid they might
 actually explode out through her skin if she wasn't very careful.
 'I think I've changed my mind about the television,' she said. 'I've got an
 extra pill that I've been keeping for a rainy day... or night. I think I'll take it
 and go back to bed. Maybe you should do the same.'
 'Yes,' I said. 'I suppose I should.' For one wild moment I thought of
 suggesting that we go back to bed together, and then I saw the dull pain in her
 eyes and thought better of it. Because she might have said yes, and she would
 only have said that for me. Not so good.
 We left the TV room (I won't dignify it with that other name, not even to be
 ironic) side by side, me matching my steps to hers, which were slow and
 painfully careful. The building was quiet except for someone moaning in the
 grip of a bad dream behind some closed door.
 'Will you be able to sleep, do you think?' she asked.
 'Yes, I think so,' I said, but of course I wasn't able to; I lay in my bed until
 sunup, thinking about Kiss of Death. I'd see Richard Widmark, giggling
 madly, tying the old lady into her wheelchair and then pushing her down the
 stairs—
 he told her—and then his face
 would merge into the face of William Wharton as he'd looked on the day
 when he came to E Block and the Green Mile—Wharton giggling like
 Widmark, Wharton screaming, Ain't this a party, now? Is it, or what? I didn't
 bother with breakfast, not after that; I just came down here to the solarium
and began to write.
 Ghosts? Sure.
 I know all about ghosts.
 2 
'Woooee, boys!' Wharton laughed. 'Ain't this a party, now? Is it, or what?'
 Still screaming and laughing, Wharton went back to choking Dean with his
 chain. Why not? Wharton knew what Dean and Harry and my friend Brutus
 Howell knew—they could only fry a man once.
 'Hit him!' Harry Terwilliger screamed. He had grappled with Wharton, tried
 to stop things before they got fairly started, but Wharton had thrown him off
 and now Harry was trying to find his feet. 'Percy, hit him!'
 But Percy only stood there, hickory baton in hand, eyes as wide as soup
plates. He loved that damned baton of his, and you would have said this was
 the chance to use it he'd been pining for ever since he came to Cold Mountain
 Penitentiary... but now that it had come, he was too scared to use the
 opportunity. This wasn't some terrified little Frenchman like Delacroix or a
 black giant who hardly seemed to know he was in his own body, like John
 Coffey; this was a whirling devil.
 I came out of Wharton's cell, dropping my clipboard and pulling my.38. For
 the second time that day I had forgotten the infection that was heating up my
 middle. I didn't doubt the story the others told of Wharton's blank face and
 dull eyes when they recounted it later, but that wasn't the Wharton I saw.
 What I saw was the face of an animal—not an intelligent animal, but one
 filled with cunning... and meanness... and joy. Yes. He was doing what he
 had been made to do. The place and the circumstances didn't matter. The
 other thing I saw was Dean Stanton's red, swelling face. He was dying in
 front of my eyes. Wharton saw the gun in my hand and turned Dean toward
 it, so that I'd almost certainly have to hit one to hit the other. From over
 Dean's shoulder, one blazing blue eye dared me to shoot. Wharton's other eye
 was hidden by Dean's hair. Behind them I saw Percy standing irresolute, with
 his baton half-raised. And then, filling the open doorway to the prison yard, a
 miracle in the flesh: Brutus Howell. They had finished moving the last of the
 infirmary equipment, and he had come over to see who wanted coffee.
 He acted without a moment's hesitation—shoved Percy aside and into the
wall with tooth-rattling force, pulled his own baton out of its loop, and
 brought it crashing down on the back of Wharton's head with all the force in
 his massive right arm. There was a dull whock! Sound—an almost hollow
 sound, as if there were no brain at all under Wharton's skull—and the chain
 finally loosened around Dean's neck. Wharton went down like a sack of meal
 and Dean crawled away, hacking harshly and holding one hand to his throat,
 his eyes bulging.
 I knelt by him and he shook his head violently. 'Okay,' he rasped. 'Take
 care... him!' He motioned at Wharton. 'Lock! Cell!'
 I didn't think he'd need a cell, as hard as Brutal had hit him; I thought he'd
 need a coffin. No such luck, though. Wharton was conked out, but a long way
 from dead. He lay sprawled on his side, one arm thrown out so that the tips of
 his fingers touched the linoleum of the Green Mile, his eyes shut, his
 breathing slow but regular. There was even a peaceful little smile on his face,
 as if he'd gone to sleep listening to his favorite lullaby. A tiny red rill of blood
 was seeping out of his hair and staining the collar of his new prison shirt.
 That was all.
 'Percy,' I said. 'Help me!'
 Percy didn't move, only stood against the wall, staring with wide, stunned
 eyes. I don't think he knew exactly where he was.
 'Percy, goddammit, grab hold of him!'
 He got moving, then, and Harry helped him. Together the three of us hauled
 the unconscious Mr. Wharton into his cell while Brutal helped Dean to his
 feet and held him as gently as any mother while Dean bent over and hacked
 air back into his lungs.
 Our new problem child didn't wake up for almost three hours, but when he
 did, he showed absolutely no ill effects from Brutal's savage hit. He came to
 the way he moved—fast. At one moment he was lying on his bunk, dead to
 the world. At the next he was standing at the bars—he was silent as a cat—
 and staring out at me as I sat at the duty desk, writing a report on the incident.
 When I finally sensed someone looking at me and glanced up, there he was,
 his grin displaying a set of blackening, dying teeth with several gaps among
 them already. It gave me a jump to see him there like that. I tried not to show
 it, but I think he knew. 'Hey, flunky,' he said. 'Next time it'll be you. And I
 won't miss.'
 'Hello, Wharton,' I said, as evenly as I could. 'Under the circumstances, I
 guess I can skip the speech and the Welcome Wagon, don't you think?'
His grin faltered just a little. It wasn't the sort of response he had expected,
 and probably wasn't the one I would have given under other circumstances.
 But something had happened while Wharton was unconscious. It is, I
 suppose, one of the major things I have trudged through all these pages to tell
 you about. Now let's just see if you believe it.
 3 
Except for shouting once at Delacroix, Percy kept his mouth shut once the
 excitement was over. This was probably the result of shock rather than any
 effort at tact—Percy Wetmore knew as much about tact as I do about the
 native tribes of darkest Africa, in my opinion—but it was a damned good
 thing, just the same. If he'd started in whining about how Brutal had pushed
 him into the wall or wondering why no one had told him that nasty men like
 Wild Billy Wharton sometimes turned up on E Block, I think we would have
 killed him. Then we could have toured the Green Mile in a whole new way.
 That's sort of a funny idea, when you consider it. I missed my chance to make
 like James Cagney in White Heat.
 Anyway, when we were sure that Dean was going to keep breathing and
 that he wasn't going to pass out on the spot, Harry and Brutal escorted him
 over to the infirmary. Delacroix, who had been absolutely silent during the
 scuffle (he had been in prison lots of times, that one, and knew when it was
 prudent to keep his yap shut and when it was relatively safe to open it again),
 began bawling loudly down the corridor as Harry and Brutal helped Dean
 out. Delacroix wanted to know what had happened. You would have thought
 his constitutional rights had been violated.
 'Shut up, you little queer!' Percy yelled back, so furious that the veins stood
 out on the sides of his neck. I put a hand on his arm and felt it quivering
 beneath his shirt. Some of this was residual fright, of course (every now and
 then I had to remind myself that part of Percy's problem was that he was only
 twenty-one, not much older than Wharton), but I think most of it was rage.
 He hated Delacroix. I don't know just why, but he did.
 'Go see if Warden Moores is still here,' I told Percy. 'If he is, give him a
 complete verbal report on what happened. Tell him he'll have my written
 report on his desk tomorrow, if I can manage it.'
 Percy swelled visibly at this responsibility; for a horrible moment or two, I
actually thought he might salute. 'Yes, sir. I will.'
 'Begin by telling him that the situation in E Block is normal. It's not a story,
 and the warden won't appreciate you dragging it out to heighten the
 suspense.'
 'I won't.'
 'Okay. Off you go.'
 He started for the door, then turned back. The one thing you could count on
 with him was contrariness. I desperately wanted him gone, my groin was on
 fire, and now he didn't seem to want to go.
 'Are you all right, Paul?' he asked. 'Running a fever, maybe? Got a touch of
 the grippe? Cause there's sweat all over your face.'
 'I might have a touch of something, but mostly I'm fine,' I said. 'Go on,
 Percy, tell the warden.'
 He nodded and left—thank Christ for small favors. As soon as the door was
 closed, I lunged into my office. Leaving the duty desk unmanned was against
 regulations, but I was beyond caring about that. It was bad—like it had been
 that morning.
 I managed to get into the little toilet cubicle behind the desk and to get my
 business out of my pants before the urine started to gush, but it was a near
 thing. I had to put a hand over my mouth to stifle a scream as I began to flow,
 and grabbed blindly for the lip of the washstand with the other. It wasn't like
 my house, where I could fall to my knees and piss a puddle beside the
 woodpile; if I went to my knees here, the urine would go all over the floor.
 I managed to keep my feet and not to scream, but it was a close thing on
 both counts. It felt like my urine had been filled with tiny slivers of broken
 glass. The smell coming up from the toilet bowl was swampy and unpleasant,
 and I could see white stuff—pus, I guess—floating on the surface of the
 water.
 I took the towel off the rack and wiped my face with it. I was sweating, all
 right; it was pouring off me. I looked into the metal mirror and saw the
 flushed face of a man running a high fever looking back at me. Hundred and
 three? Hundred and four? Better not to know, maybe. I put the towel back on
 its bar, flushed the toilet, and walked slowly back across my office to the
 cellblock door. I was afraid Bill Dodge or someone else might have come in
 and seen three prisoners with no attendants, but the place was empty.
 Wharton still lay unconscious on his bunk, Delacroix had fallen silent, and
 John Coffey had never made a single noise at all, I suddenly realized. Not a
peep. Which was worrisome.
 I went down the Mile and glanced into Coffey's cell, half-expecting to
 discover he'd committed suicide in one of the two common Death Row ways
 either hanging himself with his pants, or gnawing into his wrists. No such
 thing, it turned out. Coffey merely sat on the end of his bunk with his hands
 in his lap, the largest man I'd ever seen in my life, looking at me with his
 strange, wet eyes.
 'Cap'n?' he said.
 'What's up, big boy?'
 'I need to see you.'
 'Ain't you looking right at me, John Coffey?'
 He said nothing to this, only went on studying me with his strange, leaky
 gaze. I sighed.
 'In a second, big boy.'
 I looked over at Delacroix, who was standing at the bars of his cell. Mr.
 Jingles, his pet mouse (Delacroix would tell you he'd trained Mr. Jingles to
 do tricks, but us folks who worked on the Green Mile were pretty much
 unanimous in the opinion that Mr. Jingles had trained himself), was jumping
 restlessly back and forth from one of Del's outstretched hands to the other,
 like an acrobat doing leaps from platforms high above the center ring. His
 eyes were huge, his ears laid back against his sleek brown skull. I hadn't any
 doubt that the mouse was reacting to Delacroix's nerves. As I watched, he ran
 down Delacroix's pants leg and across the cell to where the brightly colored
 spool lay against one wall. He pushed the spool back to Delacroix's foot and
 then looked up at him eagerly, but the little Cajun took no notice of his
 friend, at least for the time being.
 'What happen, boss?' Delacroix asked. 'Who been hurt?'
 'Everything's jake,' I said. 'Our new boy came in like a lion, but now he's
 passed out like a lamb. All's well that ends well.'
 'It ain't over yet,' Delacroix said, looking up the Mile toward the cell where
 Wharton was jugged. 'L'homme mauvais, c'est' vrai!'
 'Well,' I said, 'don't let it get you down, Del. Nobody's going to make you
 play skiprope with him out in the yard.'
 There was a creaking sound from behind me as Coffey got off his bunk.
 'Boss Edgecombe!' he said again. This time he sounded urgent. 'I need to talk
 to you!'
 I turned to him, thinking, all right, no problem, talking was my business.
All the time trying not to shiver, because the fever had turned cold, as they
 sometimes will. Except for my groin, which still felt as if it had been slit
 open, filled with hot coals, and then sewed back up again.
 'So talk, John Coffey,' I said, trying to keep my voice light and calm. For
 the first time since he'd come onto E Block, Coffey looked as though he was
 really here, really among us. The almost ceaseless trickle of tears from the
 corners of his eyes had ceased, at least for the time being, and I knew he was
 seeing what he was looking at—Mr. Paul Edgecombe, E Block's bull-goose
 screw, and not some place he wished he could return to, and take back the
 terrible thing he'd done.
 'No,' he said. 'You got to come in here.'
 'Now, you know I can't do that,' I said, still trying for the light tone, 'at least
 not right this minute. I'm on my own here for the time being, and you
 outweigh me by just about a ton and a half. We've had us one hooraw this
 afternoon, and that's enough. So we'll just have us a chat through the bars, if
 it's all the same to you, and—'
 'Please!' He was holding the bars so tightly that his knuckles were pale and
 his fingernails were white. His face was long with distress, those strange eyes
 sharp with some need I could not understand. I remember thinking that
 maybe I could've understood it if I hadn't been so sick, and knowing that
 would have given me a way of helping him through the rest of it. When you
 know what a man needs, you know the man, more often than not. 'Please,
 Boss Edgecombe! You have to come in!'
 That's the nuttiest thing I ever heard, I thought, and then realized something
 even nuttier: I was going to do it. I had my keys off my belt and I was
 hunting through them for the ones that opened John Coffey's cell. He could
 have picked me up and broken me over his knee like kindling on a day when
 I was well and feeling fine, and this wasn't that day. All the same, I was going
 to do it. On my own, and less than half an hour after a graphic demonstration
 of where stupidity and laxness could get you when you were dealing with
 condemned murderers, I was going to open this black giant's cell, go in, and
 sit with him. If I was discovered, I might well lose my job even if he didn't do
 anything crazy, but I was going to do it, just the same.
 Stop, I said to myself, you just stop now, Paul. But I didn't. I used one key
 on the top lock, another on the bottom lock, and then I slid the door back on
 its track.
 'You know, boss, that maybe not such a good idear,' Delacroix said in a
voice so nervous and prissy it would probably have made me laugh under
 other circumstances.
 'You mind your business and I'll mind mine,' I said without looking around.
 My eyes were fixed on John Coffey's, and fixed so hard they might have been
 nailed there. It was like being hypnotized. My voice sounded to my own ears
 like something which had come echoing down a long valley. Hell, maybe I
 was hypnotized. 'You just lie down and take you a rest.'
 'Christ, this place is crazy,' Delacroix said in a trembling voice. 'Mr. Jingles,
 I just about wish they'd fry me and be done widdit!'
 I went into Coffey's cell. He stepped away as I stepped forward. When he
 was backed up against his bunk—it hit him in the calves, that's how tall he
 was—he sat down on it. He patted the mattress beside him, his eyes never
 once leaving mine. I sat down there next to him, and he put his arm around
 my shoulders, as if we were at the movies and I was his girl.
 'What do you want, John Coffey?' I asked, still looking into his eyes—those
 sad, serene eyes.
 'Just to help,' he said. He sighed like a man will when he's faced with a job
 he doesn't much want to do, and then he put his hand down in my crotch, on
 that shelf of bone a foot or so below the navel.
 'Hey!' I cried. 'Get your goddam hand—'
 A jolt slammed through me then, a big painless whack of something. It
 made me jerk on the cot and bow my back, made me think of Old Toot
 shouting that he was frying, he was frying, he was a done tom turkey. There
 was no heat, no feeling of electricity, but for a moment the color seemed to
 jump out of everything, as if the world had been somehow squeezed and
 made to sweat. I could see every pore on john Coffey's face, I could see every
 bloodshot snap in his haunted eyes, I could see a tiny healing scrape on his
 chin. I was aware that my fingers were hooked down into claws on thin air,
 and that my feet were drumming on the floor of Coffey's cell.
 Then it was over. So was my urinary infection. Both the heat and the
 miserable throbbing pain were gone from my crotch, and the fever was
 likewise gone from my head. I could still feel the sweat it had drawn out of
 my skin, and I could smell it, but it was gone, all right.
 'What's going on?' Delacroix called shrilly. His voice still came from far
 away, but when John Coffey bent forward, breaking eye-contact with me, the
 little Cajun's voice suddenly came clear. It was as if someone had pulled
 wads of cotton or a pair of shooters' plugs out of my ears. 'What's he doing to
you?'
 I didn't answer. Coffey was bent forward over his own lap with his face
 working and his throat bulging. His eyes were bulging, too. He looked like a
 man with a chicken bone caught in his throat.
 'John!' I said. I clapped him on the back; it was all I could think of to do.
 'John, what's wrong?'
 He hitched under my hand, then made an unpleasant gagging, retching
 sound. His mouth opened the way horses sometimes open their mouths to
 allow the bit—reluctantly, with the lips peeling back from the teeth in a kind
 of desperate sneer. Then his teeth parted, too, and he exhaled a cloud of tiny
 black insects that looked like gnats or noseeums. They swirled furiously
 between his knees, turned white, and disappeared.
 Suddenly all the strength went out of my middsection. It was as if the
 muscles there had turned to water. I slumped back against the stone side of
 Coffey's cell. I remember thinking the name of the Savior—Christ, Christ,
 Christ, over and over, like that—and I remember thinking that the fever had
 driven me delirious. That was all.
 Then I became aware that Delacroix was bawling for help; he was telling
 the world that John Coffey was killing me, and telling it at the top of his
 lungs. Coffey was bending over me, all right, but only to make sure I was
 okay.
 'Shut up, Del,' I said, and got on my feet. I waited for the pain to rip into my
 guts, but it didn't happen. I was better. Really. There was a moment of
 dizziness, but that passed even before I was able to reach out and grab the
 bars of Coffey's cell door for balance. 'I'm totally okey-doke.'
 'You get on outta here,' Delacroix said, sounding like a nervy old woman
 telling a kid to climb down out of that-ere apple tree. 'You ain't suppose to be
 in there wit no one else on the block.'
 I looked at John Coffey, who sat on the bunk with his huge hands on the
 tree stumps of his knees. John Coffey looked back at me. He had to tilt his
 head up a little, but not much.
 'What did you do, big boy?' I asked in a low voice. 'What did you do to
 me?'
 'Helped,' he said. 'I helped it, didn't I?'
 'Yeah, I guess, but how? How did you help it?'
 He shook his head—right, left, back to dead center. He didn't know how
 he'd helped it (how he'd cured it) and his placid face suggested that he didn't
give a rat's ass—any more than I'd give a rat's ass about the mechanics of
 running when I was leading in the last fifty yards of a Fourth of July Two
Miler. I thought about asking him how he'd known I was sick in the first
 place, except that would undoubtedly have gotten the same headshake.
 There's a phrase I read somewhere and never forgot, something about 
 That's what John Coffey was, and I suppose
 the only reason he could sleep at night was because he didn't care. Percy
 called him the ijit, which was cruel but not too far off the mark. Our big boy
 knew his name, and knew it wasn't spelled like the drink, and that was just
 about all he cared to know.
 As if to emphasize this for me, he shook his head m that deliberate way one
 more time, then lay down on his bunk with his hands clasped under his left
 cheek like a pillow and his face to the wall. His legs dangled off the end of
 the bunk from the shins on down, but that never seemed to bother him. The
 back of his shirt had pulled up, and I could see the scars that crisscrossed his
 skin.
 I left the cell, turned the locks, then faced Delacroix, who was standing
 across the way with his hands wrapped around the bars of his cell, looking at
 me anxiously. Perhaps even fearfully. Mr. Jingles perched on his shoulder
 with his fine whiskers quivering like filaments. 'What dat darkie-man do to
 you?' Delacroix asked. 'Waddit gris-gris? He th'ow some gris-gris on you?'
 Spoken in that Cajun accent of his, gris-gris rhymed with pee-pee.
 'I don't know what you're talking about, Del.'
 'Devil you don't! Lookit you! All change! Even walk different, boss!'
 I probably was walking different, at that. There was a beautiful feeling of
 calm in my groin, a sense of peace so remarkable it was almost ecstasy—
 anyone who's suffered bad pain and then recovered will know what I'm
 talking about.
 'Everything's all right, Del,' I insisted. 'John Coffey had a nightmare, that's
 all.'
 'He a gris-gris man!' Delacroix said vehemently. There was a nestle of
 sweat-beads on his upper lip. He hadn't seen much, just enough to scare him
 half to death. 'He a hoodoo man!'
 'What makes you say that?'
 Delacroix reached up and took the mouse in one hand. He cupped it in his
 palm and lifted it to his face. From his pocket, Delacroix took out a pink
 fragment—one of those peppermint candies. He held it out, but at first the
mouse ignored it, stretching out its neck toward the man instead, sniffing at
 his breath the way a person might sniff at a bouquet of flowers. Its little
 oildrop eyes slitted most of the way closed in an expression that looked like
 ecstasy. Delacroix kissed its nose, and the mouse allowed its nose to be
 kissed. Then it took the offered piece of candy and began to munch it.
 Delacroix looked at it a moment longer, then looked at me. All at once I got
 it.
 'The mouse told you,' I said. 'Am I right?'
 'Oui.'
 'Like he whispered his name to you.'
 'Oui, in my ear he whisper it.'
 'Lie down, Del,' I said. 'Have you a little rest. All that whispering back and
 forth must wear you out.'
 He said something else—accused me of not believing him, I suppose. His
 voice seemed to be coming from a long way off again. And when I went back
 up to the duty desk, I hardly seemed to be walking at all—it was more like I
 was floating, or maybe not even moving, the cells just rolling past me on
 either side, movie props on hidden wheels.
 I started to sit like normal, but halfway into it my knees unlocked and I
 dropped onto the blue cushion Harry had brought from home the year before
 and plopped onto the seat of the chair. If the chair hadn't been there, I reckon
 I would have plopped straight to the floor without passing Go or collecting
 two hundred dollars.
 I sat there, feeling the nothing in my groin where a forest fire had been
 blazing not ten minutes before. I helped it, didn't I? John Coffey had said, and
 that was true, as far as my body went. My peace of mind was a different
 story, though. That he hadn't helped at all.
 My eyes fell on the stack of forms under the tin ashtray we kept on the
 corner of the desk. BLOCK REPORT was printed at the top, and about
 halfway down was a blank space headed Report All Unusual Occurrences. I
 would use that space in tonight's report, telling the story of William
 Wharton's colorful and action-packed arrival. But suppose I also told what
 had happened to me in John Coffey's cell? I saw myself picking up the pencil
 —the one whose tip Brutal was always licking—and writing a single word in
 big capital letters: MIRACLE.
 That should have been funny, but instead of smiling, all at once I felt sure
 that I was going to cry I put my hands to my face, palms against my mouth to
stifle the sobs—I didn't want to scare Del again just when he was starting to
 get settled down—but no sobs came. No tears, either. After a few moments I
 lowered my hands back to the desk and folded them. I didn't know what I was
 feeling, and the only clear thought in my head was a wish that no one should
 come back onto the block until I was a little more in control of myself. I was
 afraid of what they might see in my face.
 I drew a Block Report form toward me. I would wait until I had settled
 down a bit more to write about how my latest problem child had almost
 strangled Dean Stanton, but I could fill out the rest of the boilerplate
 foolishness in the meantime. I thought my handwriting might look funny—
 trembly—but it came out about the same as always.
 About five minutes after I started, I put the pencil down and went into the
 W.C. adjacent to my office to take a leak. I didn't need to go very bad, but I
 could manage enough to test what had happened to me, I thought. As I stood
 there, waiting for my water to flow, I became sure that it would hurt just the
 way it had that morning, as if I were passing tiny shards of broken glass;
 what he'd done to me would turn out to be only hypnosis, after all, and that
 might be a relief in spite of the pain.
 Except there was no pain, and what went into the bowl was clear, with no
 sign of pus. I buttoned my fly, pulled the chain that flushed the commode,
 went back to the duty desk, and sat down again.
 I knew what had happened; I suppose I knew even when I was trying to tell
 myself I'd been hypnotized. I'd experienced a healing, an authentic Praise
 Jesus, The Lord Is Mighty. As a boy who'd grown up going to whatever
 Baptist or Pentecostal church my mother and her sisters happened to be in
 favor of during any given month, I had heard plenty of Praise Jesus, The Lord
 Is Mighty miracle stories. I didn't believe all of them, but there were plenty of
 people I did believe. One of these was a man named Roy Delfines, who lived
 with his family about two miles down the road from us when I was six or so.
 Delfines had chopped his son's little finger off with a hatchet, an accident
 which had occurred when the boy unexpectedly moved his hand on a log he'd
 been holding on the backyard chopping block for his dad. Roy Delfines said
 he had practically worn out the carpet with his knees that fall and winter, and
 in the spring the boy's finger had grown back. Even the nail had grown back.
 I believed Roy Delfines when he testified at Thursday-night rejoicing. There
 was a naked, uncomplicated honesty in what he said as he stood there talking
 with his hands jammed deep into the pockets of his biballs that was
impossible not to believe. 
 Roy Delfines said, 
s
 itch and let it be." Praise Jesus, The Lord Is Mighty.
 Roy Delfines
 I had felt his touch. Being touched
 by him was like being touched by some strange and wonderful doctor.
 I helped it, didn
t get rid of, or
 words you
t I?
 Except he hadn
s use of 
 could be chalked up to
 ignorance rather than pride, but I knew—believed, at least—what I had
 learned about healing in those churches of Praise Jesus, The Lord Is Mighty,
 piney-woods amen corners much beloved by my twenty-two-year-old mother
 and my aunts: that healing is never about the healed or the healer, but about
 God
s will, and the extraordinary lengths to which God has gone
 to realize His will.
 What did God want of me, in this case? What did He want badly enough to
 put healing power in the hands of a child-murderer? To be on the block,
 instead of at home, sick as a dog, shivering in bed with the stink of sulfa
 running out of my pores? Perhaps; I was maybe supposed to be here instead
 of home in case Wild Bill Wharton decided to kick up more dickens, or to
 make sure Percy Wetmore didn
d been telling
 the world I was getting better, and until that very day I
t). As for Coffey himself,
 he
t a culvert in the world that remembers the water that flowed through
 it once the rain has stopped. So I resolved to keep my mouth completely shut
 on the subject, with never an idea of how soon I
d be telling it to.
 But I was curious about my big boy, and there
I
 my
 wife said, handing me the lunch she
It

 
m not worried about him,
I
s all.
In my experience, one leads to the other,
You look better, at least, I

 
 I said, and off I went, singing songs like "Come, Josephine,
 in My Flying Machine" and "We
 to keep myself company.
 I went to the offices of the Tefton Intelligencer first, and they told me that
 Burt Hammersmith, the fellow I was looking for, was most likely over at the
 county courthouse. At the courthouse they told me that Hammersmith had
 been there but had left when a burst waterpipe had closed down the main
 proceedings, which happened to be a rape trial (in the pages of the
 Intelligencer the crime would be referred to as 'assault on a woman,' which
 was how such things were done in the days before Ricki Lake and Carnie
 Wilson came on the scene). They guessed he'd probably gone on home. I got
 some directions out a dirt road so rutted and narrow I just about didn't dare
 take my Ford up it, and there I found my man. Hammersmith had written
 most of the stories on the Coffey trial, and it was from him I found out most
 of the details about the brief manhunt that had netted Coffey in the first place.
 The details the Intelligencer considered too gruesome to print is what I mean,
of course.
 Mrs. Hammersmith was a young woman with a tired, pretty face and hands
 red from lye soap. She didn't ask my business, just led me through a small
 house fragrant with the smell of baking and onto the back porch, where her
 husband sat with a bottle of pop in his hand and an unopened copy of Liberty
 magazine on his lap. There was a small, sloping backyard; at the foot of it,
 two little ones were squabbling and laughing over a swing. From the porch, it
 was impossible to tell their sexes, but I thought they were boy and girl.
 Maybe even twins, which cast an interesting sort of light on their father's part,
 peripheral as it had been, in the Coffey trial. Nearer at hand, set like an island
 in the middle of a turdstudded patch of bare, beatup-looking ground, was a
 doghouse. No sign of Fido; it was another unseasonably hot day, and I
 guessed he was probably inside, snoozing.
 'Burt, yew-all got you a cump'ny,' Mrs. Hammersmith said.
 'Allright,' he said. He glanced at me, glanced at his wife, then looked back
 at his kids, which was where his heart obviously lay. He was a thin man—
 almost painfully thin, as if he had just begun to recover from a serious illness
 —and his hair had started to recede. His wife touched his shoulder tentatively
 with one of her red, wash-swollen hands. He didn't look at it or reach up to
 touch it, and after a moment she took it back. It occurred to me, fleetingly,
 that they looked more like brother and sister than husband and wife—he'd
 gotten the brains, she'd gotten the looks, but neither of them had escaped
 some underlying resemblance, a heredity that could never be escaped. Later,
 going home, I realized they didn't look alike at all; what made them seem to
 was the aftermath of stress and the lingering of sorrow. It's strange how pain
 marks our faces, and makes us look like family.
 She said, 'Yew-all want a cold drink, Mr—?'
 'It's Edgecombe,' I said. 'Paul Edgecombe. And thank you. A cold drink
 would be wonderful, ma'am.'
 She went back inside. I held out my hand to Hammersmith, who gave it a
 brief shake. His grip was limp and cold. He never took his eyes off the kids
 down at the bottom of the yard.
 'Mr. Hammersmith, I'm E Block superintendent at Cold Mountain State
 Prison. That's—'
 'I know what it is,' he said, looking at me with a little more interest. 'So—
 the bull-goose screw of the Green Mile is standing on my back porch, just as
 big as life. What brings you fifty miles to talk to the local rag's only full-time
reporter?'
 'John Coffey,' I said.
 I think I expected some sort of strong reaction (the kids who could have
 been twins working at the back of my mind... and perhaps the doghouse, too;
 the Dettericks had had a dog), but Hammersmith only raised his eyebrows
 and sipped at his drink. 'Coffey's your problem now, isn't he?' Hammersmith
 asked.
 'He's not much of a problem,' I said. 'He doesn't like the dark, and he cries a
 lot of the time, but neither thing makes much of a problem in our line of
 work. We see worse.'
 'Cries a lot, does he?' Hammersmith asked. 'Well, he's got a lot to cry about,
 I'd say. Considering what he did. What do you want to know?'
 'Anything you can tell me. I've read your newspaper stories, so I guess what
 I want is anything that wasn't in them.'
 He gave me a sharp, dry look. 'Like how the little girls looked? Like exactly
 what he did to them? That the kind of stuff you're interested in, Mr.
 Edgecombe?'
 'No,' I said, keeping my voice mild. 'It's not the Detterick girls I'm
 interested in, sir. Poor little mites are dead. But Coffey's not—not yet—and
 I'm curious about him.'
 'All right,' he said. 'Pull up a chair and sit, Mr. Edgecombe. You'll forgive
 me if I sounded a little sharp just now, but I get to see plenty of vultures in
 my line of work. Hell, I've been accused of being one of em often enough,
 myself. I just wanted to make sure of you.'
 'And are you?'
 'Sure enough, I guess,' he said, sounding almost indifferent. The story he
 told me is pretty much the one I set down earlier in this account—how Mrs.
 Detterick found the porch empty, with the screen door pulled off its upper
 hinge, the blankets cast into one corner, and blood on the steps; how her son
 and husband had taken after the girls' abductor; how the posse had caught up
 to them first and to John Coffey not much later. How Coffey had been sitting
 on the riverbank and wailing, with the bodies curled in his massive arms like
 big dolls. The reporter, rack-thin in his open-collared white shirt and gray
 town pants, spoke in a low, unemotional voice... but his eyes never left his
 own two children as they squabbled and laughed and took turns with the
 swing down there in the shade at the foot of the slope. Sometime in the
 middle of the story, Mrs. Hammersmith came back with a bottle of
homemade root beer, cold and strong and delicious. She stood listening for
 awhile, then interrupted long enough to call down to the kids and tell them to
 come up directly, she had cookies due out of the oven. 'We will, Mamma!'
 called a little girl's voice, and the woman went back inside again.
 When Hammersmith had finished, he said: 'So why do you want to know? I
 never had me a visit from a Big House screw before, it's a first.'
 'I told you—'
 'Curiosity, yep. Folks get curious, I know it, I even thank God for it, I'd be
 out of a job and might actually have to go to work for a living without it. But
 fifty miles is a long way to come to satisfy simple curiosity, especially when
 the last twenty is over bad roads. So why don't you tell me the truth,
 Edgecombe? I satisfied yours, so now you satisfy mine.'
 Well, I could say, I had this urinary infection, and John Coffey put his
 hands on me and healed it. The man who raped and murdered those two little
 girls did that. So I wondered about him, of course—anyone would. I even
 wondered if maybe Homer Cribus and Deputy Rob McGee didn't maybe
 collar the wrong man. In spite of all the evidence against him I wonder that.
 Because a man who has a power like that in his hands, you don't usually think
 of him as the kind of man who rapes and murders children.
 No, maybe that wouldn't do.
 'There are two things I've wondered about,' I said. 'The first is if he ever did
 anything like that before.'
 Hammersmith turned to me, his eyes suddenly sharp and bright with
 interest, and I saw he was a smart fellow. Maybe even a brilliant fellow, in a
 quiet way. 'Why?' he asked. 'What do you know, Edgecombe? What has he
 said?'
 'Nothing. But a man who does this sort of thing once has usually done it
 before. They get a taste for it.'
 'Yes,' he said. 'They do. They certainly do.'
 'And it occurred to me that it would be easy enough to follow his backtrail
 and find out. A man his size, and a Negro to boot, can't be that hard to trace.'
 'You'd think so, but you'd be wrong,' he said. 'In Coffey's case, anyhow. I
 know.'
 'You tried?'
 'I did, and came up all but empty. There were a couple of railroad fellows
 who thought they saw him in the Knoxville yards two days before the
 Detterick girls were killed. No surprise there; he was just across the river
from the Great Southern tracks when they collared him, and that's probably
 how he came down here from Tennessee. I got a letter from a man who said
 he'd hired a big bald black man to shift crates for him in the early spring of
 this year—this as in Kentucky. I sent him a picture of Coffey and he said that
 was the man. But other than that—' Hammersmith shrugged and shook his
 head.
 'Doesn't that strike you as a little odd?'
 'Strikes me as a lot odd, Mr. Edgecombe. It's like he dropped out of the sky.
 And he's no help; he can't remember last week once this week comes.'
 'No, he can't,' I said. 'How do you explain it?'
 'We're in a Depression,' he said, 'that's how I explain it. People all over the
 roads. The Okies want to pick peaches in California, the poor whites from up
 in the brakes want to build cars in Detroit, the black folks from Mississippi
 want to go up to New England and work in the shoe factories or the textile
 mills. Everyone—black as well as white—thinks it's going to be better over
 the next jump of land. It's the American damn way. Even a giant like Coffey
 doesn't get noticed everywhere he goes... until, that is, he decides to kill a
 couple of little girls. Little white girls.'
 'Do you believe that?' I asked.
 He gave me a bland look from his too-thin face. 'Sometimes I do,' he said.
 His wife leaned out of the kitchen window like an engineer from the cab of
 a locomotive and called, 'Kids! Cookies are ready!' She turned to me. 'Would
 you like an oatmeal-raisin cookie, Mr. Edgecombe?'
 'I'm sure they're delicious, ma'am, but I'll take a pass this time.'
 'All right,' she said, and drew her head back inside.
 'Have you seen the scars on him?' Hammersmith asked abruptly. He was
 still watching his kids, who couldn't quite bring themselves to abandon the
 pleasures of the swing—not even for oatmeal-raisin cookies.
 'Yes.' But I was surprised he had.
 He saw my reaction and laughed. 'The defense attorney's one big victory
 was getting Coffey to take off his shirt and show those scars to the jury. The
 prosecutor, George Peterson, objected like hell, but the judge allowed it. Old
 George could have saved, his breath—juries around these parts don't buy all
 that psychology crap about how people who've been mistreated just can't help
 themselves. They believe people can help themselves. It's a point of view I
 have a lot of sympathy for... but those scars were pretty ghastly, just the
 same. Notice anything about them, Edgecombe?'
I had seen the man naked in the shower, and I'd noticed, all right; I knew
 just what he was talking about. 'They're all broken up. Latticed, almost.'
 'You know what that means?'
 'Somebody whopped the living hell out of him when he was a kid,' I said.
 'Before he grew.'
 'But they didn't manage to whop the devil out of him, did they,
 Edgecombe? Should have spared the rod and just drowned him in the river
 like a stray kitten, don't you think?'
 I suppose it would have been politic to simply agree and get out of there,
 but I couldn't. I'd seen him. And I'd felt him, as well. Felt the touch of his
 hands.
 'He's... strange,' I said. 'But there doesn't seem to be any real violence in
 him. I know how he was found, and it's hard to jibe that with what I see, day
 in and day out, on the block. I know violent men, Mr. Hammersmith.' It was
 Wharton I was thinking about, of course, Wharton strangling Dean Stanton
 with his wrist-chain and bellowing Whoooee, boys! Ain't this a party, now?
 He was looking at me closely now, and smiling a little, incredulous smile
 that I didn't care for very much. 'You didn't come up here to get an idea about
 whether or not he might have killed some other little girls somewhere else,'
 he said. 'You came up here to see if I think he did it at all. That's it, isn't it?
 'Fess up, Edgecombe.'
 I swallowed the last of my cold drink, put the bottle down on the little table,
 and said: 'Well? Do you?'
 'Kids!' he called down the hill, leaning forward a little in his chair to do it.
 'Y'all come on up here now n get your cookies!' Then he leaned back in his
 chair again and looked at me. That little smile—the one I didn't much care for
 —had reappeared.
 'Tell you something,' he said. 'You want to listen close, too, because this
 might just be something you need to know.'
 'I'm listening.'
 'We had us a dog named Sir Galahad,' he said, and cocked a thumb at the
 doghouse. 'A good dog. No particular breed, but gentle. Calm. Ready to lick
 your hand or fetch a stick. There are plenty of mongrel dogs like him,
 wouldn't you say?'
 I shrugged, nodded.
 'In many ways, a good mongrel dog is like your negro,' he said. 'You get to
 know it, and often you grow to love it. It is of no particular use, but you keep
it around because you think it loves you. If you're lucky, Mr. Edgecombe,
 you never have to find out any different. Cynthia and I, we were not lucky.'
 He sighed—a long and somehow skeletal sound, like the wind rummaging
 through fallen leaves. He pointed toward the doghouse again, and I wondered
 how I had missed its general air of abandonment earlier, or the fact that many
 of the turds had grown whitish and powdery at their tops.
 'I used to clean up after him,' Hammersmith said, 'and keep the roof of his
 house repaired against the rain. In that way also Sir Galahad was like your
 Southern negro, who will not do those things for himself. Now I don't touch
 it, I haven't been near it since the accident—if you can call it an accident. I
 went over there with my rifle and shot him, but I haven't been over there
 since. I can't bring myself to. I suppose I will, in time. I'll clean up his messes
 and tear down his house.'
 Here came the kids, and all at once I didn't want them to come; all at once
 that was the last thing on earth I wanted. The little girl was all right, but the
 boy—
 They pounded up the steps, looked at me, giggled, then went on toward the
 kitchen door.
 'Caleb,' Hammersmith said. 'Come here. Just for a second.'
 The little girl—surely his twin, they had to be of an age—went on into the
 kitchen. The little boy came to his father, looking down at his feet. He knew
 he was ugly. He was only four, I guess, but four is old enough to know that
 you're ugly. His father put two fingers under the boy's chin and tried to raise
 his face. At first the boy resisted, but when his father said 'Please, son,' in
 tones of sweetness and calmness and love, he did as he was asked.
 A huge, circular scar ran out of his hair, down his forehead, through one
 dead and indifferently cocked eye, and to the comer of his mouth, which had
 been disfigured into the knowing leer of a gambler or perhaps a whoremaster.
 One cheek was smooth and pretty; the other was bunched up like the stump
 of a tree. I guessed there had been a hole in it, but that, at least, had healed.
 'He has the one eye,' Hammersmith said, caressing the boy's bunched cheek
 with a lover's kind fingers. 'I suppose he's lucky not to be blind. We get down
 on our knees and thank God for that much, at least. Eh, Caleb?'
 'Yes, sir,' the boy said shyly—the boy who would be beaten mercilessly on
 the play-yard by laughing, jeering bullies for all his miserable years of
 education, the boy who would never be asked to play Spin the Bottle or Post
 Office and would probably never sleep with a woman not bought and paid for
once he was grown to manhood's times and needs, the boy who would always
 stand outside the warm and lighted circle of his peers, the boy who would
 look at himself in his mirror for the next fifty or sixty or seventy years of his
 life and think ugly, ugly, ugly.
 'Go on in and get your cookies,' his father said, and kissed his son's
 sneering mouth.
 'Yes, sir,' Caleb, said, and dashed inside.
 Hammersmith took a handkerchief from his back pocket and wiped at his
 eyes with it—they were dry, but I suppose he'd gotten used to them being
 wet.
 'The dog was here when they were born,' he said. 'I brought him in the
 house to smell them when Cynthia brought them home from the hospital, and
 Sir Galahad licked their hands. Their little hands.' He nodded, as if
 confirming this to himself. 'He played with them; used to lick Arden's face
 until she giggled. Caleb used to pull his ears, and when he was first learning
 to walk, he'd sometimes go around the yard, holding to Galahad's tail. The
 dog never so much as growled at him. Either of them.'
 Now the tears were coming; he wiped at them automatically, as a man does
 when he's had lots of practice.
 'There was no reason,' he said. 'Caleb didn't hurt him, yell at him, anything.
 I know. I was there. If I hadn't have been, the boy would almost certainly
 have been killed. What happened, Mr. Edgecombe, was nothing. The boy just
 got his face set the right way in front of the dog's face, and it came into Sir
 Galahad's mind—whatever serves a dog for a mind—to lunge and bite. To
 kill, if he could. The boy was there in front of him and the dog bit. And that's
 what happened with Coffey. He was there, he saw them on the porch, he took
 them, he raped them, he killed them. You say there should be some hint that
 he did something like it before, and I know what you mean, but maybe he
 didn't do it before. My dog never bit before; just that once. Maybe, if Coffey
 was let go, he'd never do it again. Maybe my dog never would have bit again.
 But I didn't concern myself with that, you know. I went out with my rifle and
 grabbed his collar and blew his head off.'
 He was breathing hard.
 'I'm as enlightened as the next man, Mr. Edgecombe, went to college in
 Bowling Green, took history as well as journalism, some philosophy, too. I
 like to think of myself as enlightened. I don't suppose folks up North would,
 but I like to think of myself as enlightened. I'd not bring slavery back for all
the tea in China. I think we have to be humane and generous in our efforts to
 solve the race problem. But we have to remember that your negro will bite if
 he gets the chance, just like a mongrel dog will bite if he gets the chance and
 it crosses his mind to do so. You want to know if he did it, your weepy Mr.
 Coffey with the scars all over him?'
 I nodded.
 'Oh, yes,' Hammersmith said. 'He did it. Don't you doubt it, and don't you
 turn your back on him. You might get away with it once or a hundred times...
 even a thousand... but in the end—' He raised a hand before my eyes and
 snapped the fingers together rapidly against the thumb, turning the hand into
 a biting mouth. 'You understand?'
 I nodded again.
 'He raped them, he killed them, and afterward he was sorry... but those little
 girls stayed raped, those little girls stayed dead. But you'll fix him, won't you,
 Edgecombe? In a few weeks you'll fix him so he never does anything like
 that again.' He got up, went to the porch rail, and looked vaguely at the
 doghouse, standing at the center of its beaten patch, in the middle of those
 aging turds. 'Perhaps you'll excuse me,' he said. 'Since I don't have to spend
 the afternoon in court, I thought I might visit with my family for a little bit. A
 man's children are only young once.'
 'You go ahead,' I said. My lips felt numb and distant. 'And thank you for
 your time.'
 'Don't mention it,' he said.
 I drove directly from Hammersmith's house to the prison. It was a long
 drive, and this time I wasn't able to shorten it by singing songs. It felt like all
 the songs had gone out of me, at least for awhile. I kept seeing that poor little
 boy's disfigured face. And Hammersmith's hand, the fingers going up and
 down against the thumb in a biting motion.
 5 
Wild Bill Wharton took his first trip down to the restraint room the very
 next day. He spent the morning and afternoon being as quiet and good as
 Mary's little lamb, a state we soon discovered was not natural to him, and
 meant trouble. Then, around seven-thirty that evening, Harry felt something
 warm splash on the cuffs of uniform pants he had put on clean just that day. It
was piss. William Wharton was standing at his cell, showing his darkening
 teeth in a wide grin, and pissing all over Harry Terwilliger's pants and shoes.
 'The dirty sonofabitch must have been saving it up all day,' Harry said later,
 still disgusted and outraged.
 Well, that was it. It was time to show William Wharton who ran the show
 on E Block. Harry got Brutal and me, and I alerted Dean and Percy, who
 were also on. We had three prisoners by then, remember, and were into what
 we called full coverage, with my group on from seven in the evening to three
 in the morning—when trouble was most apt to break out—and two other
 crews covering the rest of the day. Those other crews consisted mostly of
 floaters, with Bill Dodge usually in charge. It wasn't a bad way to run things,
 all and all, and I felt that, once I could shift Percy over to days, life would be
 even better. I never got around to that, however. I sometimes wonder if it
 would have changed things, if I had.
 Anyway, there was a big watermain in the storage room, on the side away
 from Old Sparky, and Dean and Percy hooked up a length of canvas firehose
 to it. Then they stood by the valve that would open it, if needed.
 Brutal and I hurried down to Wharton's cell, where Wharton still stood, still
 grinning and still with his tool hanging out of his pants. I had liberated the
 straitjacket from the restraint room and tossed it on a shelf in my office last
 thing before going home the night before, thinking we might be needing it for
 our new problem child. Now I had it in one hand, my index finger hooked
 under one of the canvas straps. Harry came behind us, hauling the nozzle of
 the firehose, which ran back through my office, down the storage-room steps,
 and to the drum where Dean and Percy were paying it out as fast as they
 could.
 'Hey, d'jall like that?' Wild Bill asked. He was laughing like a kid at a
 carnival, laughing so hard he could barely talk; big tears went rolling down
 his cheeks. 'You come on s'fast I guess you must've. I'm currently cookin
 some turds to go with it. Nice soft ones. I'll have them out to y'all tomorrow
 —'
 He saw that I was unlocking his cell door and his eyes narrowed. He saw
 that Brutal was holding his revolver in one hand and his nightstick in the
 other, and they narrowed even more.
 'You can come in here on your legs, but you'll go out on your backs, Billy
 the Kid is goan guarantee you that,' he told us. His eyes shifted back to me.
 'And if you think you're gonna put that nut-coat on me, you got another think
coming, old hoss.'
 'You're not the one who says go or jump back around here,' I told him. 'You
 should know that, but I guess you're too dumb to pick it up without a little
 teaching.'
 I finished unlocking the door and ran it back on its track. Wharton retreated
 to the bunk, his cock still hanging out of his pants, put his hands out to me,
 palms up, then beckoned with his fingers. 'Come on, you ugly motherfucker,'
 he said. 'They be schoolin, all right, but this old boy's well set up to be the
 teacher.' He shifted his gaze and his darktoothed grin to Brutal. 'Come on, big
 fella, you first. This time you cain't sneak up behind me. Put down that gun—
 you ain't gonna shoot it anyway, not you—and we'll go man-to-man. See
 who's the better fel—'
 Brutal stepped into the cell, but not toward Wharton. He moved to the left
 once he was through the door, and Wharton's narrow eyes widened as he saw
 the firehose pointed at him.
 'No, you don't,' he said. 'Oh no, you d—'
 'Dean!' I yelled. 'Turn it on! All the way!'
 Wharton jumped forward, and Brutal hit him a good smart lick—the kind
 of lick I'm sure Percy dreamed of—across his forehead, laying his baton right
 over Wharton's eyebrows. Wharton, who seemed to think we'd never seen
 trouble until we'd seen him, went to his knees, his eyes open but blind. Then
 the water came, Harry staggering back a step under its power and then
 holding steady, the nozzle firm in his hands, pointed like a gun. The stream
 caught Wild Bill Wharton square in the middle of his chest, spun him
 halfway around, and drove him back under his bunk. Down the hall,
 Delacroix was jumping from foot to foot, cackling shrilly, and cursing at
 John Coffey, demanding that Coffey tell him what was going on, who was
 winning, and how dat gran' fou new boy like dat Chinee water treatment.
 John said nothing, just stood there quietly in his too-short pants and his
 prison slippers. I only had one quick glance at him, but that was enough to
 observe his same old expression, both sad and serene. It was as if he'd seen
 the whole thing before, not just once or twice but a thousand times.
 'Kill the water!' Brutal shouted back over his shoulder, then raced forward
 into the cell. He sank his hands into the semi-conscious Wharton's armpits
 and dragged him out from under his bunk. Wharton was coughing and
 making a glub-glub sound. Blood was dribbling into his dazed eyes from
 above his brows, where Brutal's stick had popped the skin open in a line.
We had the straitjacket business down to a science, did Brutus Howell and
 me; we'd practiced it like a couple of vaudeville hoofers working up a new
 dance routine. Every now and then, that practice paid off. Now, for instance.
 Brutal sat Wharton up and held out his arms toward me the way a kid might
 hold out the arms of a Raggedy Andy doll. Awareness was just starting to
 seep back into Wharton's eyes, the knowledge that if he didn't start fighting
 right away, it was going to be too late, but the lines were still down between
 his brain and his muscles, and before he could repair them, I had rammed the
 sleeves of the coat up his arms and Brutal was doing the buckles up the back.
 While he took care of that, I grabbed the cuff-straps, pulled Wharton's arms
 around his sides, and linked his wrists together with another canvas strap. He
 ended up looking like he was hugging himself.
 'Goddam you, big dummy, how dey doin widdim?' Delacroix screamed. I
 heard Mr. Jingles squeaking, as if he wanted to know, too.
 Percy arrived, his shirt wet and sticking to him from his struggles with the
 watermain, his face glowing with excitement. Dean came along behind him,
 wearing a bracelet of purplish bruise around his throat and looking a lot less
 thrilled.
 'Come on, now, Wild Bill,' I said, and yanked Wharton to his feet. 'Little
 walky-walky.'
 'Don't you call me that!' Wharton screamed shrilly, and I think that for the
 first time we were seeing real feelings, and not just a clever animal's
 camouflage spots. 'Wild Bill Hickok wasn't no range-rider! He never fought
 him no bear with a Bowie knife, either! He was just another bushwhackin
 John Law! Dumb sonofabitch sat with his back to the door and got kilt by a
 drunk!'
 'Oh my suds and body, a history lesson!' Brutal exclaimed, and shoved
 Wharton out of his cell. 'A feller just never knows what he's going to get
 when he clocks in here, only that it's apt to be nice. But with so many nice
 people like you around, I guess that kind of stands to reason, don't it? And
 you know what? Pretty soon you'll be history yourself, Wild Bill. Meantime,
 you get on down the hall. We got a room for you. Kind of a cooling-off
 room.'
 Wharton gave a furious, inarticulate scream and threw himself at Brutal,
 even though he was snugly buckled into the coat now, and his arms were
 wrapped around behind him. Percy made to draw his baton—the Wetmore
 Solution for all of life's problems—and Dean put a hand on his wrist. Percy
gave him a puzzled, half-indignant look, as if to say that after what Wharton
 had done to Dean, Dean should be the last person in the world to want to hold
 him back.
 Brutal pushed Wharton backward. I caught him and pushed him to Harry.
 And Harry propelled him on down the Green Mile, past the gleeful Delacroix
 and the impassive Coffey. Wharton ran to keep from falling on his face,
 spitting curses the whole way. Spitting them the way a welder's torch spits
 sparks. We banged him into the last cell on the right while Dean, Harry, and
 Percy (who for once wasn't complaining about being unfairly overworked)
 yanked all of the crap out of the restraint room. While they did that, I had a
 brief conversation with Wharton.
 'You think you're tough,' I said, 'and maybe you are, sonny, but in here
 tough don't matter. Your stampeding days are over. If you take it easy on us,
 we'll take it easy on you. If you make it hard, you'll die in the end just the
 same, only we'll sharpen you like a pencil before you go.'
 'You're gonna be so happy to see the end of me,' Wharton said in a hoarse
 voice. He was struggling against the straitjacket even though he must have
 known it would do no good, and his face was as red as a tomato. 'And until
 I'm gone, I'll make your lives miserable.' He bared his teeth at me like an
 angry baboon.
 'If that's all you want, to make our lives miserable, you can quit now,
 because you've already succeeded,' Brutal said. 'But as far as your time on the
 Mile goes, Wharton, we don't care if you spend all of it in the room with the
 soft walls. And you can wear that damned nut-coat until your arms gangrene
 from lack of circulation and fall right off.' He paused. 'No one much comes
 down here, you know. And if you think anyone gives much of a shit what
 happens to you, one way or another, you best reconsider. To the world in
 general, you're already one dead outlaw.'
 Wharton was studying Brutal carefully, and the color was fading out of his
 face. 'Lemme out of it,' he said in a placatory voice—a voice too sane and too
 reasonable to trust. 'I'll be good. Honest Injun.'
 Harry appeared in the cell doorway. The end of the corridor looked like a
 rummage sale, but we'd set things to rights with good speed once we got
 started. We had before; we knew the drill. 'All ready,' Harry said.
 Brutal grabbed the bulge in the canvas where Wharton's right elbow was
 and yanked him to his feet. 'Come on, Wild Billy. And look on the good side.
 You're gonna have at least twenty-four hours to remind yourself never to sit
with your back to the door, and to never hold onto no aces and eights.'
 'Lemme out of it,' Wharton said. He looked from Brutal to Harry to me, the
 red creeping back into his face. 'I'll be good—I tell you I've learned my
 lesson. I... I... ummmmmahhhhhhh—!'
 He suddenly collapsed, half of him in the cell, half of him on the played-out
 lino of the Green Mile, kicking his feet and bucking his body.
 'Holy Christ, he's pitchin a fit,' Percy whispered.
 'Sure, and my sister's the Whore of Babylon,' Brutal said. 'She dances the
 hootchie-kootchie for Moses on Saturday nights in a long white veil.' He bent
 down and hooked a hand into one of Wharton's armpits. I got the other one.
 Wharton threshed between us like a hooked fish. Carrying his jerking body,
 listening to him grunt from one end and fart from the other was one of my
 life's less pleasant experiences.
 I looked up and met John Coffey's eyes for a second. They were bloodshot,
 and his dark cheeks were wet. He had been crying again. I thought of
 Hammersmith making that biting gesture with his hand and shivered a little.
 Then I turned my attention back to Wharton.
 We threw him into the restraint room like he was cargo, and watched him
 lie on the floor, bucking hard in the straitjacket next to the drain we had once
 checked for the mouse which had started its E Block life as Steamboat Willy.
 'I don't much care if he swallows his tongue or something and dies,' Dean
 said in his hoarse and raspy voice, 'but think of the paperwork, boys! It'd
 never end.'
 'Never mind the paperwork, think of the hearing,' Harry said gloomily.
 'We'd lose our damned jobs. End up picking peas down Mississippi. You
 know what Mississippi is, don't you? It's the Indian word for asshole.'
 'He ain't gonna die, and he ain't gonna swallow his tongue, either,' Brutal
 said. 'When we open this door tomorrow, he's gonna be just fine. Take my
 word for it.'
 That's the way it was, too. The man we took back to his cell the next night
 at nine was quiet, pallid, and seemingly chastened. He walked with his head
 down, made no effort to attack anyone when the straitjacket came off, and
 only stared listlessly at me when I told him it would go just the same the next
 time, and he just had to ask himself how much time he wanted to spend
 pissing in his pants and eating baby-food a spoonful at a time.
 'I'll be good, boss, I learnt my lesson,' he whispered in a humble little voice
 as we put him back in his cell. Brutal looked at me and winked.
Late the next day, William Wharton, who was Billy the Kid to himself and
 never that bushwhacking John Law Wild Bill Hickok, bought a moon-pie
 from Old Toot-Toot. Wharton had been expressly forbidden any such
 commerce, but the afternoon crew was composed of floaters, as I think I have
 said, and the deal went down. Toot himself undoubtedly knew better, but to
 him the snack-wagon was always a case of a nickel is a nickel, a dime is a
 dime, I'd sing another chorus but I don't have the time.
 That night, when Brutal ran his check-round, Wharton was standing at the
 door of his cell. He waited until Brutal looked up at him, then slammed the
 heels of his hands into his bulging cheeks and shot a thick and amazingly
 long stream of chocolate sludge into Brutal's face. He had crammed the entire
 moon-pie into his trap, held it there until it liquefied, and then used it like
 chewing tobacco.
 Wharton fell back on his bunk wearing a chocolate goatee, kicking his legs
 and screaming with laughter and pointing to Brutal, who was wearing a lot
 more than a goatee. 'Li'l Black Sambo, yassuh, boss, yassuh, howdoo you
 do?' Wharton held his belly and howled. 'Gosh, if it had only been ka-ka! I
 wish it had been! If I'd had me some of that—'
 'You are ka-ka,' Brutal growled, 'and I hope you got your bags packed,
 because you're going back down to your favorite toilet.'
 Once again Wharton was bundled into the strait jacket, and once again we
 stowed him in the room with the soft walls. Two days, this time. Sometimes
 we could hear him raving in there, sometimes we could hear him promising
 that he'd be good, that he'd come to his senses and be good, and sometimes
 we could hear him screaming that he needed a doctor, that he was dying.
 Mostly, though, he was silent. And he was silent when we took him out
 again, too, walking, back to his cell with his head down and his eyes dull, not
 responding when Harry said, 'Remember, it's up to you.' He would be all right
 for a while, and then he'd try something else. There was nothing he did that
 hadn't been tried before (well, except for the thing with the moon-pie, maybe;
 even Brutal admitted that was pretty original), but his sheer persistence was
 scary. I was afraid that sooner or later someone's attention might lapse and
 there would be hell to pay. And the situation might continue for quite awhile,
 because somewhere he had a lawyer who was beating the bushes, telling
 folks how wrong it would be to kill this fellow upon whose brow the dew of
 youth had not yet dried... and who was, incidentally, as white as old Jeff
 Davis. There was no sense complaining about it, because keeping Wharton
out of the chair was his lawyer's job. Keeping him safely jugged was ours.
 And in the end, Old Sparky would almost certainly have him, lawyer or no
 lawyer.
 6 
That was the week Melinda Moores, the warden's wife, came home from
 Indianola. The doctors were done with her; they had their interesting,
 newfangled X-ray photographs of the tumor in her head; they had
 documented the weakness in her hand and the paralyzing pains that racked
 her almost constantly by then, and were done with her. They gave her
 husband a bunch of pills with morphine in them and sent Melinda home to
 die. Hal Moores had some sick-leave piled up—not a lot, they didn't give you
 a lot in those days, but he took what he had so he could help her do what she
 had to do.
 My wife and I went to see her three days or so after she came home. I
 called ahead and Hal said yes, that would be fine, Melinda was having a
 pretty good day and would enjoy seeing us.
 'I hate calls like this,' I said to Janice as we drove to the little house where
 the Mooreses had spent most of their marriage.
 'So does everyone, honey,' she said, and patted my hand. 'We'll bear up
 under it, and so will she.'
 'I hope so.'
 We found Melinda in the sitting room, planted in a bright slant of
 unseasonably warm October sun, and my first shocked thought was that she
 had lost ninety pounds. She hadn't, of course—if she'd lost that much weight,
 she hardly would have been there at all—but that was my brain's initial
 reaction to what my eyes were reporting. Her face had fallen away to show
 the shape of the underlying skull, and her skin was as white as parchment.
 There were dark circles under her eyes. And it was the first time I ever saw
 her in her rocker when she didn't have a lapful of sewing or afghan squares or
 rags for braiding into a rug. She was just sitting there. Like a person in a
 train-station.
 'Melinda,' my wife said warmly. I think she was as shocked as I was—
 more, perhaps—but she hid it splendidly, as some women seem able to do.
 She went to Melinda, dropped on one knee beside the rocking chair in which
the warden's wife sat, and took one of her hands. As she did, my eye
 happened on the blue hearthrug by the fireplace. It occurred to me that it
 should have been the shade of tired old limes, because now this room was
 just another version of the Green Mile.
 'I brought you some tea,' Jan said, 'the kind I put up myself. It's a nice
 sleepy tea. I've left it in the kitchen.'
 'Thank you so much, darlin,' Melinda said. Her voice sounded old and rusty
 'How you feeling, dear?' my wife asked.
 'Better,' Melinda said in her rusty, grating voice. 'Not so's I want to go out
 to a barn dance, but at least there's no pain today. They give me some pills for
 the headaches. Sometimes they even work.'
 'That's good, isn't it?'
 'But I can't grip so well. Something's happened... to my hand.' She raised it,
 looked at it as if she had never seen it before, then lowered it back into her
 lap. 'Something's happened... all over me.' She began to cry in a soundless
 way that made me think of John Coffey. It started to chime in my head again,
 that thing he'd said: I helped it, didn't I? I helped it, didn't I? Like a rhyme
 you can't get rid of.
 Hal came in then. He collared me, and you can believe me when I say I was
 glad to be collared. We went into the kitchen, and he poured me half a shot of
 white whiskey, hot stuff fresh out of some countryman's still. We clinked our
 glasses together and drank. The shine went down like coal-oil, but the bloom
 in the belly was heaven. Still, when Moores tipped the mason jar at me,
 wordlessly asking if I wanted the other half, I shook my head and waved it
 off. Wild Bill Wharton was out of restraints—for the time being, anyway—
 and it wouldn't be safe to go near where he was with a booze-clouded head.
 Not even with bars between us.
 'I don't know how long I can take this, Paul,' he said in a low voice. 'There's
 a girl who comes in mornings to help me with her, but the doctors I say she
 may lose control of her bowels, and... and... '
 He stopped, his throat working, trying hard not to cry in front of me again.
 'Go with it as best you can,' I said. I reached out across the table and briefly
 squeezed his palsied, liverspotted hand. 'Do that day by day and give the rest
 over to God. There's nothing else you can do, is there?'
 'I guess not. But it's hard, Paul. I pray you never have to find out how hard.'
 He made an effort to collect himself.
 'Now tell me the news. How are you doing with William Wharton? And
how are you making out with Percy Wetmore?'
 We talked shop for a while, and got through the visit. After, all the way
 home, with my wife sitting silent, for the most part—wet-eyed and thoughtful
 —in the passenger seat beside me, Coffey's words ran around in my head like
 Mr. Jingles running around in Delacroix's cell: I helped it, didn't I?
 'It's terrible,' my wife said dully at one point. 'And there's nothing anyone
 can do to help her.'
 I nodded agreement and thought, I helped it, didn't I? But that was crazy,
 and I tried as best I could to put it out of my mind.
 As we turned into our dooryard, she finally spoke a second time—not about
 her old friend Melinda, but about my urinary infection. She wanted to know
 if it was really gone. Really gone, I told her.
 'That's fine, then,' she said, and kissed me over the eyebrow, in that shivery
 place of mine. 'Maybe we ought to, you know, get up to a little something. If
 you have the time and the inclination, that is.'
 Having plenty of the latter and just enough of the former, I took her by the
 hand and led her into the back bedroom and took her clothes off as she
 stroked the part of me that swelled and throbbed but didn't hurt anymore. And
 as I moved in her sweetness, slipping through it in that slow way she liked—
 that we both liked—I thought of John Coffey, saying he'd helped it, he'd
 helped it, hadn't he? Like a snatch of song that won't leave your mind until it's
 damned good and ready.
 Later, as I drove to the prison, I got to thinking that very soon we would
 have to start rehearsing for Delacroix's execution. That thought led to how
 Percy was going to be out front this time, and I felt a shiver of dread. I told
 myself to just go with it, one execution and we'd very likely be shut of Percy
 Wetmore for good... but still I felt that shiver, as if the infection I'd been
 suffering with wasn't gone at all, but had only switched locations, from
 boiling my groin to freezing my backbone.
 7 
'Come on,' Brutal told Delacroix the following evening. 'We're going for a
 little walk. You and me and Mr. Jingles.'
 Delacroix looked at him distrustfully, then reached down into the cigar box
 for the mouse. He cupped it m the palm of one hand and looked at Brutal
with narrowed eyes.
 'Whatchoo talking about?' he asked.
 'It's a big night for you and Mr. Jingles,' Dean said, as he and Harry joined
 Brutal. The chain of bruises around Dean's neck had gone an unpleasant
 yellow color, but at least he could talk again without sounding like a dog
 barking at a cat. He looked at Brutal. 'Think we ought to put the shackles on
 him, Brute?'
 Brutal appeared to consider. 'Naw,' he said at last. 'He's gonna be good, ain't
 you, Del? You and the mouse, both. After all, you're gonna be showin off for
 some high muck-a-mucks tonight.'
 Percy and I were standing up by the duty desk, watching this, Percy with
 his arms folded and a small, contemptuous smile on his lips. After a bit, he
 took out his horn comb and went to work on his hair with it. John Coffey was
 watching, too, standing silently at the bars of his cell. Wharton was lying on
 his bunk, staring up at the ceiling and ignoring the whole show. He was still
 
 although what he called good was what the docs at Briar Ridge
 called catatonic. And there was one other person there, as well. He was
 tucked out of sight in my office, but his skinny shadow fell out the door and
 onto the Green Mile.
 'What dis about, you gran' 'fou?' Del asked querulously, drawing his feet up
 on the bunk as Brutal undid the double locks on his cell door and ran it open.
 His eyes flicked back and forth among the three of them.
 'Well, I tell you,' Brutal said. 'Mr. Moores is gone for awhile—his wife is
 under the weather, as you may have heard. So Mr. Anderson is in charge, Mr.
 Curtis Anderson.'
 'Yeah? What that. got to do with me?'
 'Well,' Harry said, 'Boss Anderson's heard about your mouse, Del, and
 wants to see him perform. He and about six other fellows are over in Admin,
 just waiting for you to show up. Not just plain old bluesuit guards, either.
 These are pretty big bugs, just like Brute said. One of them, I believe, is a
 politician all the way from the state capital.'
 Delacroix swelled visibly at this, and I saw not so much as a single shred of
 doubt on his face. Of course they wanted to see Mr. Jingles; who would not?
 He scrummed around, first under his bunk and then under his pillow. He
 eventually found one of those big pink peppermints and the wildly colored
 spool. He looked at Brutal questioningly, and Brutal nodded.
 'Yep. It's the spool trick they're really wild to see, I guess, but the way he
eats those mints is pretty damned cute, too. And don't forget the cigar box.
 You'll want it to carry him in, right?'
 Delacroix got the box and put Mr. Jingles's props in it, but mouse he settled
 on the shoulder of his shirt. Then he stepped out of his cell, his puffed-out
 chest leading the way, and regarded Dean and Harry. 'You boys coming?'
 'Naw,' Dean said. 'Got other fish to fry. But you knock em for a loop, Del—
 show em what happens when a Louisiana boy puts the hammer down and
 really goes to work.'
 'You bet.' A smile shone out of his face, so sudden and so simple in its
 happiness that I felt my heart break for him a little, in spite of the terrible
 thing he had done. What a world we live in—what a world!
 Delacroix turned to John Coffey, with whom he had struck up a diffident
 friendship not much different from a hundred other deathhouse acquaintances
 I'd seen.
 'You knock em for a loop, Del,' Coffey said in a serious voice. 'You show
 em all his tricks.'
 Delacroix nodded and held his hand up by his shoulder. Mr. Jingles stepped
 onto it like it was a platform, and Delacroix held the hand out toward
 Coffey's cell. John Coffey stuck out a huge finger, and I'll be damned if that
 mouse didn't stretch out his neck and lick the end of it, just like a dog.
 'Come on, Del, quit lingerin,' Brutal said. 'These folks're settin back a hot
 dinner at home to watch your mouse cut his capers.' Not true, of course—
 Anderson would have been there until eight o'clock on any night, and the
 guards he'd dragged in to watch Delacroix's 
 would be there until
 eleven or twelve, depending on when their shifts were scheduled to end. The
 politician from the state capital would most likely turn out to be an office
 janitor in a borrowed tie. But Delacroix had no way of knowing any of that.
 'I'm ready,' Delacroix said, speaking with the simplicity of a great star who
 has somehow managed to retain the common touch. 'Let's go.' And as Brutal
 led him up the Green Mile with Mr. Jingles perched there on the little man's
 shoulder, Delacroix once more began to bugle, 'Messieurs et mesdames!
 Bienvenue au cirque de mousie!' Yet, even lost as deeply in his own fantasy
 world as he was, he gave Percy a wide berth and a mistrustful glance.
 Harry and Dean stopped in front of the empty cell across from Wharton's
 (that worthy had still not so much as stirred). They watched as Brutal
 unlocked the door to the exercise yard, where another two guards were
 waiting to join him, and led Delacroix out, bound for his command
performance before the grand high poohbahs of Cold Mountain Penitentiary.
 We waited until the door was locked again, and then I looked toward my
 office. That shadow was still lying on the floor, thin as famine, and I was
 glad Delacroix had been too excited to see it.
 'Come on out,' I said. 'And let's move along brisk, folks. I want to get two
 run-throughs in, and we don't have much time.'
 Old Toot-Toot, looking as bright-eyed and bushytailed as ever, came out,
 walked to Delacroix's cell, and strolled in through the open door. 'Sittin
 down,' he said. 'I'm sittin down, I'm sittin down, I'm sittin down.'
 This is the real circus, I thought, closing my eyes for a second. This is the
 real circus right here, and we're all just a bunch of trained mice. Then I put
 the thought out of my mind, and we started to rehearse.
 8 
The first rehearsal went well, and so did the second. Percy performed better
 than I could have hoped for in my wildest dreams. That didn't mean things
 would go right when the time really came for the Cajun to walk the Mile, but
 it was a big step in the right direction. It occurred to me that it had gone well
 because Percy was at long last doing something he cared about. I felt a surge
 of contempt at that, and pushed it away. What did it matter? He would cap
 Delacroix and roll him, and then both of them would be gone. If that wasn't a
 happy ending, what was? And, as Moores had pointed out, Delacroix's nuts
 were going to fry no matter who was out front.
 Still, Percy had shown to good advantage in his new role and he knew it.
 We all did. As for me, I was too relieved to dislike him much, at east or the
 time being. It looked as if things were going to go all right. I was further
 relieved to find that Percy actually listened when we suggested some things
 he could do that might improve his performance even more, or at least cut
 down the possibility of something going wrong. If you want to know the
 truth, we got pretty enthusiastic about it—even Dean, who ordinarily stood
 well back from Percy... physically as well as mentally, if he could. None of it
 that surprising, either, I suppose—for most men, nothing is more flattering
 than having a young person actually pay attention to his advice, and we were
 no different in that regard. As a result, not a one of us noticed that Wild Bill
 Wharton was no longer looking up at the ceiling. That includes me, but I
know he wasn't. He was looking at us as we stood there by the duty desk,
 gassing and giving Percy advice. Giving him advice! And him pretending to
 listen! Quite a laugh, considering how things turned out!
 The sound of a key rattling into the lock of the door to the exercise yard put
 an end to our little postrehearsal critique. Dean gave Percy a warning glance.
 'Not a word or a wrong look,' he said. 'We don't want him to know what
 we've been doing. It's not good for them. Upsets them.'
 Percy nodded and ran a finger across his lips in a mum's-the-word gesture
 that was supposed to be funny and wasn't. The exercise-yard door opened and
 Delacroix came in, escorted by Brutal, who was carrying the cigar box with
 the colored spool in it, the way the magician's assistant in a vaudeville show
 might carry the boss's props offstage at the end of the act. Mr. Jingles was
 perched on Delacroix's shoulder. And Delacroix himself? I tell you what—
 Lillie Langtry couldn't have looked any glowier after performing at the White
 House. 'They love Mr. Jingles!' Delacroix proclaimed. 'They laugh and cheer
 and clap they hands!'
 'Well, that's aces,' Percy said. He spoke in an indulgent, proprietary way
 that didn't sound like the old Percy at all. 'Pop on back in your cell, old-timer.'
 Delacroix gave him a comical look of distrust, and the old Percy came
 busting out. He bared his teeth in a mock snarl and made as if to grab
 Delacroix. It was a joke, of course, Percy was happy, not in a serious
 grabbing mood at all, but Delacroix didn't know that. He jerked away with an
 expression of fear and dismay, and tripped over one of Brutal's big feet. He
 went down hard, hitting the linoleum with the back of his head. Mr. Jingles
 leaped away in time to avoid being crushed, and went squeaking off down the
 Green Mile to Delacroix's cell.
 Delacroix got to his feet, gave the chuckling Percy a single hate-filled
 glance, then scurried off after his pet, calling for him and rubbing the back of
 his head. Brutal (who didn't know that Percy had shown exciting signs of
 competency for a change) gave Percy a wordless look of contempt and went
 after Del, shaking his keys out.
 I think what happened next happened because Percy was actually moved to
 apologize—I know it's hard to believe, but he was in an extraordinary humor
 that day. If true, it only proves a cynical old adage I heard once, something
 about how no good deed goes unpunished. Remember me telling you about
 how, after he'd chased the mouse down to the restraint room on one of those
 two occasions before Delacroix joined us, Perry got a little too close to The
Pres's cell? Doing that was dangerous, which was why the Green Mile was so
 wide—when you walked straight down the middle of it, you couldn't be
 reached from the cells. The Pres hadn't done anything to Percy, but I
 remember thinking that Arlen Bitterbuck might have, had it been him Percy
 had gotten too close to. Just to teach him a lesson.
 Well, The Pres and The Chief had both moved on, but Wild Bill Wharton
 had taken their place. He was worse-mannered than The Pres or The Chief
 had ever dreamed of being, and he'd been watching the whole little play,
 hoping for a chance to get on stage himself. That chance now fell into his lap,
 courtesy of Percy Wetmore.
 'Hey, Del!' Percy called, half-laughing, starting after Brutal and Delacroix
 and drifting much too close to Wharton's side of the Green Mile without
 realizing it. 'Hey, you numb shit, I didn't mean nothin by it! Are you all ri—'
 Wharton was up off his bunk and over to the bars of his cell in a flash—
 never in my time as a guard did I see anyone move so fast, and that includes
 some of the athletic young men Brutal and I worked with later at Boys'
 Correctional. He shot his arms out through the bars and grabbed Percy, first
 by the shoulders of his uniform blouse and then by the throat. Wharton
 dragged him back against his cell door. Percy squealed like a pig in a
 slaughter-chute, and I saw from his eyes that he thought he was going to die.
 'Ain't you sweet,' Wharton whispered. One hand left Percy's throat and
 ruffled through his hair. 'Soft!' he said, half-laughing. 'Like a girl's. I druther
 fuck your asshole than your sister's pussy, I think.' And he actually kissed
 Percy's ear.
 I think Percy—who had beat Delacroix onto the block for accidentally
 brushing his crotch, remember—knew exactly what was happening. I doubt
 that he wanted to, but I think he did. All the color had drained from his face,
 and the blemishes on his cheeks stood out like birthmarks. His eyes were
 huge and wet. A line of spittle leaked from one comer of his twitching mouth.
 All this happened quick—it was begun and done in less than ten seconds, I'd
 say.
 Harry and I stepped forward, our billies raised. Dean drew his gun. But
 before things could go so much as an inch further, Wharton let go of Perry
 and stepped back, raising his hands to his shoulders and grinning his dank
 grin. 'I let im go, I 'us just playin and I let im go,' he said. 'Never hurt airy
 single hair on that boy's purty head, so don't you go stickin me down in that
 goddam soft room again.'
Percy Wetmore darted across the Green Mile and cringed against the barred
 door of the empty cell on the other side, breathing so fast and so loud that it
 sounded almost like sobbing. He had finally gotten his lesson in keeping to
 the center of the Green Mile and away from the frumious bandersnatch, the
 teeth that bite and the claws that catch. I had an idea it was a lesson that
 would stick with him longer than all the advice we'd given him after our
 rehearsals. There was an expression of utter terror on his face, and his
 precious hair was seriously mussed up for the first time since I'd met him, all
 in spikes and tangles. He looked like someone who has just escaped being
 raped.
 There was a moment of utter stop then, a quiet so thick that the only sound
 was the sobbing whistle of Percy's breathing. What broke it was cackling
 laughter, so sudden and so completely its own mad thing that it was shocking.
 Wharton, was my first thought, but it wasn't him. It was Delacroix, standing
 in the open door of his cell and pointing at Percy. The mouse was back on his
 shoulder, and Delacroix looked like a small but malevolent male witch,
 complete with imp.
 'Lookit him, he done piss his pants!' Delacroix howled. 'Lookit what the big
 man done! Bus' other people wid 'is stick, mais oui some mauvais homme,
 but when someone touch him, he make water in 'is pants jus' like a baby!'
 He laughed and pointed, all his fear and hatred of Percy coming out in that
 derisive laughter. Percy stared at him, seemingly incapable of moving or
 speaking. Wharton stepped back to the bars of his cell, looked down at the
 dark splotch on the front of Percy's trousers—it was small but it was there,
 and no question about what it was—and grinned. 'Somebody ought to buy the
 tough boy a didy,' he said, and went back to his bunk, chuffing laughter.
 Brutal went down to Delacroix's cell, but the Cajun had ducked inside and
 thrown himself on his bunk before Brutal could get there.
 I reached out and grasped Percy's shoulder. 'Percy—' I began, but that was
 as far as I got. He came to life, shaking my hand off. He looked down at the
 front of his pants, saw the spot spreading there, and blushed a dark, fiery red.
 He looked up at me again, then at Harry and Dean. I remember being glad
 that Old Toot-Toot was gone. If he'd been around, the story would have been
 all over the prison in a single day. And, given Percy's last name—an
 unfortunate one, in this context—it was a story that would have been told
 with the relish of high glee for years to come.
 'You talk about this to anyone, and you'll all be on the breadlines in a week,'
he whispered fiercely. It was the sort of crack that would have made me want
 to swat him under other circumstances, but under these, I only pitied him. I
 think he saw that pity, and it made it worse with him—like having an open
 wound scoured with nettles.
 'What goes on here stays here,' Dean said quietly. 'You don't have to worry
 about that.'
 Percy looked back over his shoulder, toward Delacroix's cell. Brutal was
 just locking the door, and from inside, deadly clear, we could still hear
 Delacroix giggling. Percy's look was as black as thunder. I thought of telling
 him that you reaped what you sowed in this life, and then decided this might
 not be the right time for a scripture lesson.
 'As for him—' he began, but never finished. He left, instead, head down, to
 go into the storage room and look for a dry pair of pants.
 'He's so purty,' Wharton said in a dreamy voice. Harry told him to shut the
 fuck up before he went down to the restraint room just on general damned
 principles. Wharton folded his arms on his chest, closed his eyes, and
 appeared to go to sleep.
 9 
The night before Delacroix's execution came down hotter and muggier than
 ever—eighty-one degrees by the thermometer outside the Admin readyroom
 window when I clocked in at six. Eighty-one degrees at the end of October,
 think of that, and thunder rumbling in the west like it does in July. I'd met a
 member of my congregation in town that afternoon, and he had asked me,
 with apparent seriousness, if I thought such unseasonable weather could be a
 sign of the Last Times. I said that I was sure not, but it crossed my mind that
 it was Last Times for Eduard Delacroix, all right. Yes indeed it was.
 Bill Dodge was standing in the door to the exercise yard, drinking coffee
 and smoking him a little smoke. He looked around at me and said, 'Well,
 lookit here. Paul Edgecombe, big as life and twice as ugly.'
 'How'd the day go, Billy?'
 'All right.'
 'Delacroix?'
 'Fine. He seems to understand it's tomorrow, and yet it's like he don't
 understand. You know how most of em are when the end finally comes for
them.'
 I nodded. 'Wharton?'
 Bill laughed. 'What a comedian. Makes Jack Benny sound like a Quaker.
 He told Rolfe Wettermark that he ate strawberry jam out of his wife's pussy.'
 'What did Rolfe say?'
 'That he wasn't married. Said it must have been his mother Wharton was
 thinking of.'
 I laughed, and hard. That really was funny, in a low sort of way. And it was
 good just to be able to laugh without feeling like someone was lighting
 matches way down low in my gut. Bill laughed with me, then turned the rest
 of his coffee out in the yard, which was empty except for a few shuffling
 trusties, most of whom had been there for a thousand years or so.
 Thunder rumbled somewhere far off, and unfocused heat lightning flashed
 in the darkening sky overhead. Bill looked up uneasily, his laughter dying.
 'I tell you what, though,' he said, 'I don't like this weather much. Feels like
 something's gonna happen. Something bad.'
 About that he was right. The bad thing happened right around quarter of ten
 that night. That was when Percy killed Mr. Jingles.
 10 
At first it seemed like it was going to be a pretty good night in spite of the
 heat—John Coffey was being his usual quiet self, Wild Bill was making out
 to be Mild Bill, and Delacroix was in good spirits for a man who had a date
 with Old Sparky in a little more than twenty-four hours.
 He did understand what was going to happen to him, at least on the most
 basic level; he had ordered chili for his last meal and gave me special
 instructions for the kitchen. 'Tell em to lay on dat hotsauce,' he said. 'Tell em
 the kind dat really jump up your t'roat an' say howdy—the green stuff, none
 of dat mild. Dat stuff gripe me like a motherfucker, I can't get off the toilet
 the nex' day, but I don't think I gonna have a problem this time, n'est-ce pas?'
 Most of them worry about their immortal souls with a kind of moronic
 ferocity, but Delacroix pretty much dismissed my questions about what he
 wanted for spiritual comfort in his last hours. If 'dat fella' Schuster had been
 good enough for Big Chief Bitterbuck, Del reckoned, Schuster would be
 good enough for him. No, what he cared about—you've guessed already, I'm
sure—was what was going to happen to Mr. Jingles after he, Delacroix,
 passed on. I was used to spending long hours with the condemned on the
 night before their last march, but this was the first time I'd spent those long
 hours pondering the fate of a mouse.
 Del considered scenario after scenario, patiently working the possibilities
 through his dim mind. And while he thought aloud, wanting to provide for his
 pet mouse's future as if it were a child that had to be put through college, he
 threw that colored spool against the wall. Each time he did it, Mr. Jingles
 would spring after it, track it down, and then roll it back to Del's foot. It
 started to get on my nerves after awhile—first the clack of the spool against
 the stone wall, then the minute clitter of Mr. Jingles's paws. Although it was a
 cute trick, it palled after ninety minutes or so. And Mr. Jingles never seemed
 to get tired. He paused every now and then to refresh himself with a drink of
 water out of a coffee saucer Delacroix kept for just that purpose, or to munch
 a pink crumb of peppermint candy, and then back to it he went. Several times
 it was on the tip of my tongue to tell Delacroix to give it a rest, and each time
 I reminded myself that he had this night and tomorrow to play the spool
game with Mr. Jingles, and that was all. Near the end, though, it began to be
 really difficult to hold onto that thought—you know how it is, with a noise
 that's repeated over and over. After a while it shoots your nerve. I started to
 speak after all, then something made me look over my shoulder and out the
 cell door. John Coffey was standing at his cell door across the way, and he
 shook his head at me: right, left, back to center. As if he had read my mind
 and was telling me to think again.
 I would see that Mr. Jingles got to Delacroix's maiden aunt, I said, the one
 who had sent him the big bag of candy. His colored spool could go as well,
 even his 
—we'd take up a collection and see that Toot gave up his
 claim on the Corona box. No, said Delacroix after some consideration (he
 had time to throw the spool against the wall at least five times, with Mr.
 Jingles either nosing it back or pushing it with his paws), that wouldn't do.
 Aunt Hermione was too old, she wouldn't understand Mr. Jingles's frisky
 ways, and suppose Mr. Jingles outlived her? What would happen to him
 then? No, no, Aunt Hermione just wouldn't do.
 Well, then, I asked, suppose one of us took it? One of us guards? We could
 keep him right here on E Block. No, Delacroix said, he thanked me kindly for
 the thought, certainement, but Mr. Jingles was a mouse that yearned to be
 free. He, Eduard Delacroix, knew this, because Mr. Jingles had—you guessed
it—whispered the information in his ear.
 'All right,' I said, 'one of us will take him home, Del. Dean, maybe. He's got
 a little boy that would just love a pet mouse, I bet.'
 Delacroix actually turned pale with horror at the thought. A little kid in
 charge of a rodent genius like Mr. Jingles? How in the name of le bon Dieu
 could a little kid be expected to keep up with his training, let alone teach him
 new tricks? And suppose the kid lost interest and forgot to feed him for two
 or three days at a stretch? Delacroix, who had roasted six human beings alive
 in an effort to cover up his original crime, shuddered with the delicate
 revulsion of an ardent anti-vivisectionist.
 All right, I said, I'd take him myself (promise them anything, remember; in
 their last forty-eight hours, promise them anything). How would that be?
 'No, sir, Boss Edgecombe,' Del said apologetically. He threw the spool
 again. It hit the wall, bounced, spun; then Mr. Jingles was on it like white on
 rice and nosing it back to Delacroix. 'Thank you kindly—merci beaucoup—
 but you live out in the woods, and Mr. Jingles, he be scared to live out dans la
 for t. I know, because—'
 'I think I can guess how you know, Del,' I said.
 Delacroix nodded, smiling. 'But we gonna figure this out. You bet!' He
 threw the spool. Mr. Jingles clittered after it. I tried not to wince.
 In the end it was Brutal who saved the day. He had been up by the duty
 desk, watching Dean and Harry play cribbage. Percy was there, too, and
 Brutal finally tired of trying to start a conversation with him and getting
 nothing but sullen grunts in response. He strolled down to where I sat on a
 stool outside of Delacroix's cell and stood there listening to us with his arms
 folded.
 'How about Mouseville?' Brutal asked into the considering silence which
 followed Del's rejection of my spooky old house out in the woods. He threw
 the comment out in a casual just-an-idea tone of voice.
 'Mouseville?' Delacroix asked, giving Brutal a look both startled and
 interested. 'What Mouseville?'
 'It's this tourist attraction down in Florida,' he said. 'Tallahassee, I think. Is
 that right, Paul? Tallahassee?'
 'Yep,' I said, speaking without a moment's hesitation, thinking God bless
 Brutus Howell. 'Tallahassee. Right down the road apiece from the dog
 university.' Brutal's mouth twitched at that, and I thought he was going to
 queer the pitch by laughing, but he got it under control and nodded. I'd hear
about the dog university later, though, I imagined.
 This time Del didn't throw the spool, although Mr. Jingles stood on Del's
 slipper with his front paws raised, clearly lusting for another chance to chase.
 The Cajun looked from Brutal to me and back to Brutal again. 'What dey do
 in Mouseville?' he asked.
 'You think they'd take Mr. Jingles?' Brutal asked me, simultaneously
 ignoring Del and drawing him on. 'Think he's got the stuff, Paul?'
 I tried to appear considering. 'You know,' I said, 'the more I think of it, the
 more it seems like a brilliant idea.' From the comer of my eye I saw Percy
 come partway down the Green Mile (giving Wharton's cell a very wide
 berth). He stood with one shoulder leaning against an empty cell, listening
 with a small, contemptuous smile on his lips.
 'What dis Mouseville?' Del asked, now frantic to know.
 'A tourist attraction, like I told you,' Brutal said. 'There's, oh I dunno, a
 hundred or so mice there. Wouldn't you say, Paul?'
 'More like a hundred and fifty these days,' I said. 'It's a big success. I
 understand they're thinking of opening one out in California and calling it
 Mouseville West, that's how much business is booming. Trained mice are the
 coming thing with the smart set, I guess—I don't understand it, myself.'
 Del sat with the colored spool in his hand, looking at us, his own situation
 forgotten for the time being.
 'They only take the smartest mice,' Brutal cautioned, 'the ones that can do
 tricks. And they can't be white mice, because those are pet-shop mice.'
 'Pet-shop mice, yeah, you bet!' Delacroix said fiercely. 'I hate dem pet-shop
 mice!'
 'And what they got,' Brutal said, his eyes distant now as he imagined it, 'is
 this tent you go into—'
 'Yeah, yeah, like inna cirque! Do you gotta pay to get in?'
 'You shittin me? Course you gotta pay to get in. A dime apiece, two cents
 for the kiddies. And there's, like, this whole city made out of Bakelite boxes
 and toilet-paper rolls, with windows made out of isinglass so you can see
 what they're up to in there—'
 'Yeah! Yeah!' Delacroix was in ecstasy now. Then he turned to me. 'What
 ivy-glass?'
 'Like on the front of a stove, where you can see in,' I. said.
 'Oh sure! Dat shit!' He cranked his hand at Brutal, wanting him to go on,
 and Mr. Jingles's little oildrop eyes practically spun in their sockets, trying to
keep that spool in view. It was pretty funny. Percy came a little closer, as if
 wanting to get a better look, and I saw John Coffey frowning at him, but I
 was too wrapped up in Brutal's fantasy to pay much attention. This took
 telling the condemned man what he wanted to hear to new heights, and I was
 all admiration, believe me.
 'Well,' Brutal said, 'there's the mouse city, but what the kids really like is
 the Mouseville All-Star Circus, where there's mice that swing on trapezes,
 and mice that roll these little barrels, and mice that stack coins—'
 'Yeah, dat's it! Dat's the place for Mr. Jingles!' Delacroix said. His eyes
 sparkled and his cheeks were high with color. It occurred to me that Brutus
 Howell was a kind of saint. 'You gonna be a circus mouse after all, Mr.
 Jingles! Gonna live in a mouse city down Florida! All ivy-glass windows!
 Hurrah!'
 He threw the spool extra-hard. It hit low on the wall, took a crazy bounce,
 and squirted out between the bars of his cell door and onto the Mile. Mr.
 Jingles raced out after it, and Percy saw his chance.
 'No, you fool!' Brutal yelled, but Percy paid no attention. Just as Mr. Jingles
 reached the spool—too intent on it to realize his old enemy was at hand—
 Percy brought the sole of one hard black workshoe down on it. There was an
 audible snap as Mr. Jingles's back broke, and blood gushed from his mouth.
 His tiny dark eyes bulged in their sockets, and in them I read an expression of
 surprised agony that was all too human.
 Delacroix screamed with horror and grief. He threw himself at the door of
 his cell and thrust his arms out between the bars, reaching as far as he could,
 crying the mouse's name over and over.
 Percy turned toward him, smiling. Toward the three of us. 'There,' he said.
 'I knew I'd get him, sooner or later. Just a matter of time, really.' He turned
 and walked back up the Green Mile, not hurrying, leaving Mr. Jingles lying
 on the linoleum in a spreading pool of his own blood.
Part Four. 
The Bad Death of Eduard Delacroix 
1 
All this other writing aside, I've kept a little diary since I took up residence
 at Georgia Pines—no big deal, just a couple of paragraphs a day, mostly
 about the weather—and I looked back through it last evening. I wanted to see
 just how long it has been since my grandchildren, Christopher and Danielle,
 more or less forced me into Georgia Pines. 'For your own good, Gramps,'
 they said. Of course they did. Isn't that what people mostly say when they
 have finally figured out how to get rid of a problem that walks and talks?
 It's been a little over two years. The eerie thing is that I don't know if it
 feels like two years, or longer than that, or shorter. My sense of time seems to
 be melting, like a kid's snowman in a January thaw. It's as if time as it always
 was—Eastern Standard Time, Daylight Saving Tune, Working-Man Time—
 doesn't exist anymore. Here there is only Georgia Pines Time, which is Old
 Man Time, Old Lady Time, and Piss the Bed Tune. The rest... all gone.
 This is a dangerous damned place. You don't you think it's only a boring
 dangerous as a nursery school at naptime, but it's dangerous, all right. I've
 seen a lot of people slide into senility since I came here, and sometimes they
 do more than slide—sometimes they go down with the speed of a crash
diving submarine. They come here mostly all right—dim-eyed and welded to
 the cane, maybe a little loose in the bladder, but otherwise okay—and then
 something happens to them. A month later they're just sitting in the TV room,
 staring up at Oprah Winfrey on the TV with dull eyes, a slack jaw, and a
 forgotten glass of orange juice tilted and dribbling in one hand. A month after
 that, you have to tell them their kids' names when the kids come to visit. And
 a month after that, it's their own damned names you have to refresh them on.
 Something happens to them, all right: Georgia Pines Time happens to them.
 Time here is like a weak acid that erases first memory and then the desire to
 go on living.
 You have to fight it. That's what I tell Elaine Connelly, my special friend.
 It's gotten better for me since I started writing about what happened to me in
1932, the year John Coffey came on the Green Mile. Some of the memories
 are awful, but I can feel them sharpening my mind and my awareness the way
 a knife sharpens a pencil, and that makes the pain worthwhile. Writing and
 memory alone aren't enough, though. I also have a body, wasted and
 grotesque, though it may now be, and I exercise it as much as I can. It was
 hard at first—old fogies like me aren't much shakes when it comes to exercise
 just for the sake of exercise—but it's easier now that there's a purpose to my
 walks.
 I go out before breakfast—as soon as it's light, most days—for my first
 stroll. It was raining this morning, and the damp makes my joints ache, but I
 hooked a poncho from the rack by the kitchen door and went out, anyway.
 When a man has a chore, he has to do it, and if it hurts, too bad. Besides,
 there are compensations. The chief one is keeping that sense of Real Time, as
 opposed to Georgia Pines Time. And I like the rain, aches or no aches.
 Especially in the early morning, when the day is young and seems full of
 possibilities, even to a washed-up old boy like me.
 I went through the kitchen, stopping to beg two slices of toast from one of
 the sleepy-eyed cooks, and then went out. I crossed the croquet course, then
 the weedy little putting green. Beyond that is a small stand of woods, with a
 narrow path winding through it and a couple of sheds, no longer used and
 mouldering away quietly, along the way. I walked down this path slowly,
 listening to the sleek and secret patter of the rain in the pines, chewing away
 at a piece of toast with my few remaining teeth. My legs ached, but it was a
 low ache, manageable. Mostly I felt pretty well. I drew the moist gray air as
 deep as I could, taking it in like food.
 And when I got to the second of those old sheds, I went in for awhile, and I
 took care of my business there.
 When I walked back up the path twenty minutes later, I could feel a worm
 of hunger stirring in my belly, and thought I could eat something a little more
 substantial than toast. A dish of oatmeal, perhaps even a scrambled egg with
 a sausage on the side. I love sausage, always have, but if I eat more than one
 these days, I'm apt to get the squitters. One would be safe enough, though.
 Then, with my belly full and with the damp air still perking up my brain (or
 so I hoped), I would go up to the solarium and write about the execution of
 Eduard Delacroix. I would do it as fast as I could, so as not to lose my
 courage.
 It was Mr. Jingles I was thinking about as I crossed the croquet course to
the kitchen door—how Percy Wetmore had stamped on him and broken his
 back, and how Delacroix had screamed when he realized what his enemy had
 done—and I didn't see Brad Dolan standing there, half-hidden by the
 Dumpster, until he reached out and grabbed my wrist.
 'Out for a little stroll, Paulie?' he asked.
 I jerked back from him, yanking my wrist out of his hand. Some of it was
 just being startled—anyone will jerk when they're startled—but that wasn't all
 of it. I'd been thinking about Percy Wetmore, remember, and it's Percy that
 Brad always reminds me of. Some of it's how Brad always goes around with
 a paperback stuffed into his pocket (with Percy it was always a men's
 adventure magazine; with Brad it's books of jokes that are only funny if
 you're stupid and mean-hearted), some of it's how he acts like he's King Shit
 of Turd Mountain, but mostly it's that he's sneaky, and he likes to hurt.
 He'd just gotten to work, I saw, hadn't even changed into his orderly's
 whites yet. He was wearing jeans and a cheesy-looking Western-style shirt.
 In one hand was the remains of a Danish he'd hooked out of the kitchen. He'd
 been standing under the leave, eating it where he wouldn't get wet. And
 where he could watch for me, I'm pretty sure of that now. I'm pretty sure of
 something else, as well: I'll have to watch out for Mr. Brad Dolan. He doesn't
 like me much. I don't know why, but I never knew why Percy Wetmore didn't
 like Delacroix, either. And dislike is really too weak a word. Percy hated
 Del's guts from the very first moment the little Frenchman came onto the
 Green Mile.
 'What's with this poncho you got on, Paulie?' he asked, flicking the collar.
 'This isn't yours.'
 'I got it in the hall outside the kitchen,' I said. I hate it when he calls me
 Paulie, and I think he knows it, but I was damned if I'd give him the
 satisfaction of seeing it. 'There's a whole row of them. I'm not hurting it any,
 would you say? Rain's what it's made for, after all.'
 'But it wasn't made for you, Paulie,' he said, giving it another little flick.
 'That's the thing. Those slickers're for the employees, not the residents.'
 'I still don't see what harm it does.'
 He gave me a thin little smile. 'It's not about harm, it's about the rules. What
 would life be without rules? Paulie, Paulie, Paulie.' He shook his head, as if
 just looking at me made him feel sorry to be alive. 'You probably think an old
 fart like you doesn't have to mind about the rules anymore, but that's just not
 true. Paulie.'
Smiling at me. Disliking me. Maybe even hating me. And why? I don't
 know. Sometimes there is no why. That's the scary part.
 'Well, I'm sorry if I broke the rules,' I said. It came out sounding whiney, a
 little shrill, and I hated myself for sounding that way, but I'm old, and old
 people whine easily. Old people scare easily.
 Brad nodded. 'Apology accepted. Now go hang that back up. You got no
 business out walking in the rain, anyway. Specially not in those woods. What
 if you were to slip and fall and break your damned hip? Huh? Who do you
 think'd have to hoss your elderly freight back up the hill?'
 'I don't know,' I said. I just wanted to get away from him. The more I
 listened to him, the more he sounded like Percy. William Wharton, the
 crazyman who came to the Green Mile in the fall of `32, once grabbed Percy
 and scared him so bad that Percy squirted in his pants. You talk about this to
 anyone, Percy told the rest of us afterward, and you'll all be on the breadlines
 in a week. Now, these many years later, I could almost hear Brad Dolan
 saying those same words, in that same tone of voice. It's as if, by writing
 about those old times, I have unlocked some unspeakable door that connects
 the past to the present—Percy Wetmore to Brad Dolan, Janice Edgecombe to
 Elaine Connelly, Cold Mountain Penitentiary to the Georgia Pines old folks'
 home. And if that thought doesn't keep me awake tonight, I guess nothing
 will.
 I made as if to go in through the kitchen door and Brad grabbed me by the
 wrist again. I don't know about the first one, but this time he was doing it on
 purpose, squeezing to hurt. His eyes shifting back and forth, making sure no
 one was around in the early-morning wet, no one to see he was abusing one
 of the old folks he was supposed to be taking care of.
 'What do you do down that path?' he asked. 'I know you don't go down
 there and jerk off, those days are long behind you, so what do you do?'
 'Nothing,' I said, telling myself to be calm, not to show him how bad he was
 hurting me and to be calm, to remember he'd only mentioned the path, he
 didn't know about the shed. 'I just walk. To clear my mind'
 'Too late for that, Paulie, your mind's never gonna be clear again!' He
 squeezed my thin old mares wrist again, grinding the brittle bones, eyes
 continually shifting from side to side, wanting to make sure he was safe. Brad
 wasn't afraid of breaking the rules; he was only afraid of being caught
 breaking them. And in that, too, he was like Percy Wetmore, who would
 never let you forget he was the governor's nephew. 'Old as you are, its a
miracle you can remember who you are. You're too goddam old. Even for a
 museum like this. You give me the fucking creeps, Paulie.'
 'Let go of me,' I said, trying to keep the whine out of my voice. It wasn't
 just pride, either. I thought if he heard it, it might inflame him, the way the
 smell of sweat can sometimes inflame a bad-tempered dog—one which
 would otherwise only growl—to bite. That made me think of a reporter who'd
 covered John Coffey's trial. The reporter was a terrible man named
 Hammersmith, and the most terrible thing about him was that he hadn't
 known he was terrible.
 Instead of letting go, Dolan squeezed my wrist again. I groaned. I didn't
 want to, but I couldn't help it. It hurt all the way down to my ankles.
 'What do you do down there, Paulie? Tell me.'
 'Nothing!' I said. I wasn't crying, not yet, but I was afraid I'd start soon if he
 kept bearing down like that. 'Nothing, I just walk, I like to walk, let go of
 me!'
 He did, but only long enough so he could grab my other hand. That one was
 rolled closed. 'Open up,' he said. 'Let Poppa see.'
 I did, and he grunted with disgust. It was nothing but the remains of my
 second piece of toast. I'd clenched it in my right hand when he started
 squeezing my left wrist, and there was butter—well, oleo, they don't have real
 butter here, of course—on my fingers.
 'Go on inside and wash your damned hands,' he said, stepping back and
 taking another bite of his Danish. 'Jesus Christ.'
 I went up the steps. My legs were shaking, my heart pounding like an
 engine with leaky valves and shaky old pistons. As I grasped the knob that
 would let me into the kitchen—and safety—Dolan said: 'If you tell anyone I
 squeezed your po' old wrist, Paulie, I'll tell them you're having delusions.
 Onset of senile dementia, likely. And you know they'll believe me. If there
 are bruises, they'll think you made them yourself.'
 Yes. Those things were true. And once again, it could have been Percy
 Wetmore saying them, a Percy that had somehow stayed young and mean
 while I'd grown old and brittle.
 'I'm not going to say anything to anyone,' I mutered. 'Got nothing to say.'
 'That's right, you old sweetie.' His voice light and mocking, the voice of a
 lugoon (to use Percy's word) who thought he was going to be young forever.
 'And I'm going to find out what you're up to. I'm going to make it my
 business. You hear?'
I heard, all right, but wouldn't give him the satisfaction of saying so. I went
 in, passed through the kitchen (I could now smell eggs and sausage cooking,
 but no longer wanted any), and hung the poncho back up on its hook. Then I
 went upstairs to my room—resting at every step, giving my heart time to
 slow—and gathered my writing materials together.
 I went down to the solarium and was just sitting at the little table by the
 windows when my friend Elaine poked her head in. She looked tired, and, I
 thought, unwell. She'd combed her hair out but was still in her robe. We old
 sweeties don't stand much on ceremony; for the most part, we can't afford to.
 'I won't disturb you,' she said, 'I see you're getting set to write—'
 'Don't be silly,' I said. 'I've got more time than Carter's got liver pills. Come
 on in.'
 She did, but stood by the door. 'It's just that I couldn't sleep—again—and
 happened to be looking out my window a little earlier... and... '
 'And you saw Mr. Dolan and me having our pleasant little chat,' I said. I
 hoped seeing was all she'd done; that her window had been closed and she
 hadn't heard me whining to be let go.
 'It didn't look pleasant and it didn't look friendly,' she said. 'Paul, that Mr.
 Dolan's been asking around about you. He asked me about you—last week,
 this was. I didn't think much about it then, just that he's got himself a nasty
 long nose for other people's business, but now I wonder.'
 'Asking about me?' I hoped I didn't sound as uneasy as I felt. 'Asking what?'
 'Where you go walking, for one thing. And why you go walking.'
 I tried to laugh. 'There's a man who doesn't believe in exercise, that much is
 clear.'
 'He thinks you've got a secret.' She paused. 'So do I.'
 I opened my mouth—to say what, I don't know—but Elaine raised one of
 her gnarled but oddly beautiful hands before I could get a single word out. 'If
 you do, I don't want to know what it is, Paul. Your business is your business.
 I was raised to think that way, but not everyone was. Be careful. That's all I
 want to tell you. And now I'll let you alone to do your work.'
 She turned to go, but before she could get out the door, I called her name.
 She turned back, eyes questioning.
 'When I finish what I'm writing—' I began, then shook my head a little.
 That was wrong. 'If I finish what I'm writing, would you read it?'
 She seemed to consider, then gave me the sort of smile a man could easily
 fall in love with, even a man as old as me. 'That would be my honor.'
'You'd better wait until you read it before you talk about honor,' I said, and
 it was Delacroix's death I was thinking of.
 'I'll read it, though,' she said. 'Every word. I promise. But you have to finish
 writing it, first.'
 She left me to it, but it was a long time before I wrote anything. I sat staring
 out the windows for almost an hour, tapping my pen against the side of the
 table, watching the gray day brighten a little at a time, thinking about Brad
 Dolan, who calls me Paulie and never tires of jokes about chinks and slopes
 and spicks and micks, thinking about what Elaine Connelly had said. He
 thinks you've got a secret. So do I.
 And maybe I do. Yes, maybe I do. And of course Brad Dolan wants it. Not
 because he thinks it's important (and it's not, I guess, except to me), but
 because he doesn't think very old men like myself should have secrets. No
 taking the ponchos off the hook outside the kitchen; no secrets, either. No
 getting the idea that the likes of us are still human. And why shouldn't we be
 allowed such an idea? He doesn't know. And in that, too, he is like Percy.
 So my thoughts, like a river that takes an oxbow turn, finally led back to
 where they had been when Brad Dolan reached out from beneath the kitchen
 eave and grabbed my wrist: to Percy, mean-spirited Percy Wetmore, and how
 he had taken his revenge on the man who had laughed at him. Delacroix had
 been throwing the colored spool he had—the one Mr. Jingles would fetch—
 and it bounced out of the cell and into the corridor. That was all it took; Percy
 saw his chance.
 2 
'No you fool!' Brutal yelled, but Percy paid no attention. Just as Mr. Jingles
 reached the spool—too intent on it to realize his old enemy was at hand—
 Percy brought the sole of one hard black workshoe down on him. There was
 an audible snap as Mr. Jingles's back broke, and blood gushed from his
 mouth. His tiny black eyes bulged in their sockets, and in them I read an
 expression of surprised agony that was all too human.
 Delacroix screamed with horror and grief. He threw himself at the door of
 his cell and thrust his arms out through the bars, reaching as far as he could,
 crying the mouse's name over and over.
 Percy turned toward him, smiling. Toward me and Brutal, as well. 'There,'
he said. 'I knew I'd get him, sooner or later. just a matter of time, really.' He
 turned and walked back up the Green Mile, leaving Mr. Jingles lying on the
 linoleum, his spreading blood red over green.
 Dean got up from the duty desk, hitting the side of it with his knee and
 knocking the cribbage board to the floor. The pegs spilled out of their holes
 and rolled in all directions. Neither Dean nor Harry, who had been just about
 to go out, paid the slightest attention to the overturn of the game. 'What'd you
 do this time?' Dean shouted at Percy. 'What the hell'd you do this time, you
 stoopnagel?'
 Percy didn't answer. He strode past the desk without saying a word, patting
 his hair with his fingers. He went through my office and into the storage
 shed. William Wharton answered for him. 'Boss Dean? I think what he did
 was teach a certain french-fry it ain't smart to laugh at him,' he said, and then
 began to laugh himself. It was a good laugh, a country laugh, cheery and
 deep. There were people I met during that period of my life (very scary
 people, for the most part) who only sounded normal when they laughed. Wild
 Bill Wharton was one of those.
 I looked down at the mouse again, stunned. It was still breathing, but there
 were little minute beads of blood caught in the filaments of its whiskers, and
 a dull glaze was creeping over its previously brilliant oildrop eyes. Brutal
 picked up the colored spool, looked at it, then looked at me. He looked as
 dumbfounded as I felt. Behind us, Delacroix went on screaming out his grief
 and horror. It wasn't just the mouse, of course; Percy had smashed a hole in
 Delacroix's defenses and all his terror was pouring out. But Mr. Jingles was
 the focusing point for those pent-up feelings, and it was terrible to listen to
 him.
 'Oh no,' he cried over and over again, amid the screams and the garbled
 pleas and prayers in Cajun French. 'Oh no, oh no, poor Mr. Jingles, poor old
 Mr. Jingles, oh no.'
 'Give im to me.'
 I looked up, puzzled by that deep voice, at first not sure who it belonged to.
 I saw John Coffey. Like Delacroix, he had put his arms through the bars of
 his cell door, but unlike Del, he wasn't waving them around. He simply held
 them out as far as he could, the hands at the ends of them open. It was a
 purposeful pose, an almost urgent pose. And his voice, had the same quality,
 which was why, I suppose, I didn't recognize it as belonging to Coffey at
 first. He seemed a different man from the lost, weepy soul that had occupied
this cell for the last few weeks.
 'Give im to me, Mr. Edgecombe! While there's still time!'
 Then I remembered what he'd done for me, and understood. I supposed it
 couldn't hurt, but I didn't think it would do much good, either. When I picked
 the mouse up, I winced at the feel—there were so many splintered bones
 poking at various spots on Mr. Jingles's hide that it was like picking up a fur
covered pincushion. This was no urinary infection. Still—
 'What are you doing?' Brutal asked as I put Mr. Jingles in Coffey's huge
 right hand. 'What the hell?'
 Coffey pulled the mouse back through the bars. He lay limp on Coffey's
 palm, tail hanging over the arc between Coffey's thumb and first finger, the
 tip twitching weakly in midair. Then Coffey covered his right hand with his
 left, creating a kind of cup in which the mouse lay. We could no longer see
 Mr. Jingles himself, only the tail, hanging down and twitching at the tip like a
 dying pendulum. Coffey lifted his hands toward his face, spreading the
 fingers of the right as he did so, creating spaces like those between prison
 bars. The tail of the mouse now hung from the side of his hands that was
 facing us.
 Brutal stepped next to me, still holding the colored spool between his
 fingers. 'What's he think he's doing?'
 'Shh,' I said.
 Delacroix had stopped screaming. 'Please, John,' he whispered. 'Oh Johnny,
 help him, please help him, oh s'il vous pla t.'
 Dean and Harry joined us, Harry with our old deck of Airplane cards still in
 one hand. 'What's going on?' Dean asked, but I only shook my head. I was
 feeling hypnotized again, damned if I wasn't.
 Coffey put his mouth between two of his fingers and inhaled sharply. For a
 moment everything hung suspended. Then he raised his head away from his
 hands and I saw the face of a man who looked desperately sick, or in terrible
 pain. His eyes were sharp and blazing; his upper teeth bit at his full lower lip;
 his dark face had faded to an unpleasant color that looked like ash stirred into
 mud. He made a choked sound way back in his throat.
 'Dear Jesus Lord and Savior,' Brutal whispered. His eyes appeared to be in
 danger of dropping right out of his face.
 'What?' Harry almost barked. 'What?'
 'The tail! Don't you see it? The tail!'
 Mr. Jingles's tail was no longer a dying pendulum; it was snapping briskly
from side to side, like the tail of a cat in a bird-catching mood. And then,
 from inside Coffey's cupped hands, came a perfectly familiar squeak.
 Coffey made that choking, gagging sound again, then turned his head to
 one side like a man that has coughed up a wad of phlegm and means to spit it
 out. Instead, he exhaled a cloud of black insects—I think they were insects,
 and the others said the same, but to this day I am not sure—from his mouth
 and nose. They boiled around him in a dark cloud that temporarily obscured
 his features.
 'Christ, what're those?' Dean asked in a shrill, scared voice.
 'It's all right,' I heard myself say. 'Don't panic, it's all right, in a few seconds
 they'll be gone.'
 As when Coffey had cured my urinary infection for me, the 'bugs' turned
 white and then disappeared.
 'Holy shit,' Harry whispered.
 'Paul?' Brutal asked in an unsteady voice. 'Paul?'
 Coffey looked okay again—like a fellow who has successfully coughed up
 a wad of meat that has been choking him. He bent down, put his cupped
 hands on the floor, peeked through his fingers, then opened them. Mr.
 Jingles, absolutely all right—not a single twist to his backbone, not a single
 lump poking at his hide—ran out. He paused for a moment at the door of
 Coffey's cell, then ran across the Green Mile to Delacroix's cell. As he went, I
 noticed there were still beads of blood in his whiskers.
 Delacroix gathered him up, laughing and crying at the same time, covering
 the mouse with shameless, smacking kisses. Dean and Harry and Brutal
 watched with silent wonder. Then Brutal stepped forward and handed the
 colored spool through the bars. Delacroix didn't see it at first; he was too
 taken up with Mr. Jingles. He was like a father whose son has been saved
 from drowning. Brutal tapped him on the shoulder with the spool. Delacroix
 looked, saw it, took it, and went back to Mr. Jingles again, stroking his fur
 and devouring him with his eyes, needing to constantly refresh his perception
 that yes, the mouse was all right, the mouse was whole and fine and all right.
 'Toss it,' Brutal said. 'I want to see how he runs.'
 'He all right, Boss Howell, he all right, praise God—!'
 'Toss it,' Brutal repeated. 'Mind me, Del.'
 Delacroix bent, clearly reluctant, clearly not wanting to let Mr. Jingles out
 of his hands again, at least not yet. Then, very gently, he tossed the spool. It
 rolled across the cell, past the Corona cigar box, and to the wall. Mr. Jingles
was after it, but not quite with the speed he had shown previously. He
 appeared to be limping just a bit on his left rear leg, and that was what struck
 me the hardest—it was, I suppose, what made it real. That little limp.
 He got to the spool, though, got to it just fine and nosed it back to Delacroix
 with all his old enthusiasm. I turned to John Coffey, who was standing at his
 cell door and smiling. It was a tired smile, and not what I'd call really happy,
 but the sharp urgency I'd seen in his face as he begged for the mouse to be
 given to him was gone, and so was the look of pain and fear, as if he were
 choking. It was our John Coffey again, with his not-quite-there face and
 strange, far-looking eyes.
 'You helped it,' I said. 'Didn't you, big boy?'
 'That's right,' Coffey said. The smile widened a little, and for a moment or
 two it was happy. 'I helped it. I helped Del's mouse. I helped... ' He trailed
 off, unable to remember the name.
 'Mr. Jingles,' Dean said. He was looking at John with careful, wondering
 eyes, as if he expected Coffey to burst into flames or maybe begin to float in
 his cell.
 'That's right,' Coffey said. 'Mr. Jingles. He's a circus mouse. Goan live in
 ivy-glass.'
 'You bet your bobcat,' Harry said, joining us in looking at John Coffey.
 Behind us, Delacroix lay down on his bunk with Mr. Jingles on his chest. Del
 was crooning to him, singing him some French song that sounded like a
 lullaby.
 Coffey looked up the Green Mile toward the duty desk and the door which
 led into my office and the storage room beyond. 'Boss Percy's bad,' he said.
 'Boss Percy's mean. He stepped on Del's mouse. He stepped on Mr. Jingles.'
 And then, before we could say anything else to him—if we could have
 thought of anything to say—John Coffey went back to his bunk, lay down,
 and rolled on his side to face the wall.
 3 
Percy was standing with his back to us when Brutal and I came into the
 storage room about twenty minutes later. He had found a can of paste
 furniture polish on a shelf above the hamper where we put our dirty uniforms
 (and, sometimes, our civilian clothes; the prison laundry didn't care what it
washed), and was polishing the oak arms and legs of the electric chair. This
 probably sounds bizarre to you, perhaps even macabre, but to Brutal and me,
 it seemed the most normal thing Percy had done all night. Old Sparky would
 be meeting his public tomorrow, and. Percy would at least appear to be in
 charge.
 'Percy,' I said quietly.
 He turned the little tune he'd been humming dying in his throat, and looked
 at us. I didn't see the fear I'd expected, at least not at first. I realized that
 Percy looked older, somehow. And, I thought, John Coffey was right. He
 looked mean. Meanness is like an addicting drug—no one on earth is more
 qualified to say that than me—and I thought that, after a certain amount of
 experimentation, Percy had gotten hooked on it. He liked what he had done to
 Delacroix's mouse. What he liked even more was Delacroix's dismayed
 screams.
 'Don't start in on me,' he said in a tone of voice that was almost pleasant. 'I
 mean, hey, it was just a mouse. It never belonged here in the first place, as
 you boys well know.'
 'The mouse is fine,' I said. My heart was thumping hard in my chest but I
 made my voice come out mild, almost disinterested. 'Just fine. Running and
 squeaking and chasing its spool again. You're no better at mouse-killing than
 you are at most of the other things you do around here.'
 He was looking at me, amazed and disbelieving. 'You expect me to believe
 that? The goddam thing crunched! I heard it! So you can just—'
 'Shut up.'
 He stared at me, his eyes wide. 'What? What did you say to me?'
 I took a step closer to him. I could feel a vein throbbing in the middle of my
 forehead. I couldn't remember the last time I'd felt so angry. 'Aren't you glad
 Mr. Jingles is okay? After all the talks we've had about how our job is to keep
 the prisoners calm, especially when it gets near the end for them, I thought
 you'd be glad. Relieved. With Del having to take the walk tomorrow, and all.'
 Percy looked from me to Brutal, his studied calmness dissolving into
 uncertainty. 'What the hell game do you boys think you're playing?' he asked.
 'None of this is a game, my friend,' Brutal said. 'You thinking it is... well,
 that's just one of the reasons you can't be trusted. You want to know the
 absolute truth? I think you're a pretty sad case.'
 'You want to watch it,' Percy said. Now there was a rawness in his voice.
 Fear creeping back in, after all—fear of what we might want with him, fear of
what we might be up to. I was glad to hear it. It would make him easier to
 deal with. 'I know people. Important people.'
 'So you say, but you're such a dreamer,' Brutal said. He sounded as if he
 was on the verge of laughter.
 Percy dropped the polishing rag onto the seat of the chair with the clamps
 attached to the arms and legs. 'I killed that mouse,' he said in a voice that was
 not quite steady.
 'Go on and check for yourself,' I said. 'It's a free country.'
 'I will,' he said. 'I will.'
 He stalked past us, mouth set, small hands (Wharton was right, they were
 pretty) fiddling with his comb. He went up the steps and ducked through into
 my office. Brutal and I stood by Old Sparky, waiting for him to come back
 and not talking. I don't know about Brutal, but I couldn't think of a thing to
 say. I didn't even know how to think about what we had just seen.
 Three minutes passed. Brutal picked up Percy's rag and began to polish the
 thick back-slats of the electric chair. He had time to finish one and start
 another before Percy came back. He stumbled and almost fell coming down
 the steps from the office to the storageroom floor, and when he crossed to us
 he came at an uneven strut. His face was shocked and unbelieving.
 'You switched them,' he said in a shrill, accusatory voice. 'You switched
 mice somehow, you bastards. You're playing with me, and you're going to be
 goddam sorry if you don't stop! I'll see you on the goddam breadlines if you
 don't stop! Who do you think you are?'
 He quit, panting for breath, his hands clenched.
 'I'll tell you who we are,' I said. 'We're the people you work with, Percy...
 but not for very much longer.' I reached out and clamped my hands on his
 shoulders. Not real hard; but it was a clamp, all right. Yes it was.
 Percy reached up to break it. 'Take your—'
 Brutal grabbed his right hand—the whole thing, small and soft and white,
 disappeared into Brutal's tanned fist. 'Shut up your cakehole, sonny. If you
 know what's good for you, you'll take this one last opportunity to dig the wax
 out of your ears.'
 I turned him around, lifted him onto the platform, then backed him up until
 the backs of his knees struck the seat of the electric chair and he had to sit
 down. His calm was gone; the meanness and the arrogance, too. Those things
 were real enough, but you have to remember that Percy was very young. At
 his age they were still only a thin veneer, like an ugly shade of enamel paint.
You could still chip through. And I judged that Percy was now ready to
 listen.
 'I want your word,' I said.
 'My word about what?' His mouth was still trying to sneer, but his eyes
 were terrified. The power in the switch room was locked off, but Old
 Sparky's wooden seat had its own power, and right then I judged that Percy
 was feeling it.
 'Your word that if we put you out front for it tomorrow night, you'll really
 go on to Briar Ridge and leave us alone,' Brutal said, speaking with a
 vehemence I had never heard from him before. 'That you'll put in for a
 transfer the very next day.'
 'And if I won't? If I should just call up certain people and tell them you're
 harassing me and threatening me? Bullying me?'
 'We might get the bum's rush if your connections are as good as you seem
 to think they are,' I said, 'but we'd make sure you left your fair share of blood
 on the floor, too, Percy.'
 'About that mouse? Huh! You think anyone is going to care that I stepped
 on a condemned murderer's pet mouse? Outside of this looneybin, that is?'
 'No. But three men saw you just standing there with your thumb up your ass
 while Wild Bill Wharton was trying to strangle Dean Stanton with his wrist
chains. About that people will care, Percy, I promise you. About that even
 your offsides uncle the governor is going to care.'
 Percy's cheeks and brow flushed a patchy red. 'You think they'd believe
 you?' he asked, but his voice had lost a lot of its angry force. Clearly he
 thought someone might believe us. And Percy didn't like being in trouble.
 Breaking the rules was okay. Getting caught breaking them was not.
 'Well, I've got some photos of Dean's neck before the bruising went down,'
 Brutal said—I had no idea if this was true or not, but it certainly sounded
 good. 'You know what those pix say? That Wharton got a pretty good shot at
 it before anyone pulled him off, although you were right there, and on
 Wharton's blind side. You'd have some hard questions to answer, wouldn't
 you? And a thing like that could follow a man for quite a spell. Chances are
 it'd still be there long after his relatives were out of the state capital and back
 home drinking mint juleps on the front porch. A man's work-record can be a
 mighty interesting thing, and a lot of people get a chance to look at it over the
 course of a lifetime.'
 Percy's eyes flicked back and forth mistrustfully between us. His left hand
went to his hair and smoothed it. He said nothing, but I thought we almost
 had him.
 'Come on, let's quit this,' I said. 'You don't want to be here any more than
 we want you here, isn't that so?'
 'I hate it here!' he burst out. 'I hate the way you treat me, the way you never
 gave me a chance!'
 That last was far from true, but I judged this wasn't the time to argue the
 matter.
 'But I don't like to be pushed around, either. My Daddy taught me that once
 you start down that road you most likely end up letting people push you
 around your whole life.' His eyes, not as pretty as his hands but almost,
 flashed. 'I especially don't like being pushed around by big apes like this guy.'
 He glanced at my old friend and grunted. 'Brutal—you got the right
 nickname, at least.'
 'You have to understand something, Percy,' I said. 'The way we look at it,
 you've been pushing us around. We keep telling you the way we do things
 around here and you keep doing things your own way, then hiding behind
 your political connections when things turn out wrong. Stepping on
 Delacroix's mouse—' Brutal caught my eye and I backtracked in a hurry.
 'Trying to step on Delacroix's mouse is just a case in point. You push and
 push and push; we're finally pushing back, that's all. But listen, if you do
 right, you'll come out of this looking good—like a young man on his way up
 —and smelling like a rose. Nobody'll ever know about this little talk we're
 having. So what do you say? Act like a grownup. Promise you'll leave after
 Del.'
 He thought it over. And after a moment or two, a look came into his eyes,
 the sort of look a fellow gets when he's just had a good idea. I didn't like it
 much, because any idea which seemed good to Percy wouldn't seem good to
 us.
 'If nothing else,' Brutal said, 'just think how nice it'd be to get away from
 that sack of pus Wharton.'
 Percy nodded, and I let him get out of the chair. He straightened his
 uniform shirt, tucked it in at the back, gave his hair a pass-through with his
 comb. Then he looked at us. 'Okay, I agree. I'm out front for Del tomorrow
 night; I'll put in for Briar Ridge the very next day. We call it quits right there.
 Good enough?'
 'Good enough,' I said. That look was still in his eyes, but right then I was
too relieved to care.
 He stuck out his hand. 'Shake on it?'
 I did. So did Brutal.
 More fools us.
 4 
The next day was the thickest yet, and the last of our strange October heat.
 Thunder was rumbling in the west when I came to work, and the dark clouds
 were beginning to stack up there. They moved closer as the night came down,
 and we could see blue-white forks of lightning jabbing out of them. There
 was a tornado in Trapingus County around ten that night—it killed four
 people and tore the roof off the livery stable in Tefton—and vicious
 thunderstorms and gale-force winds at Cold Mountain. Later it seemed to me
 as if the very heavens had protested the bad death of Eduard Delacroix.
 Everything went just fine to begin with. Del had spent a quiet day in his
 cell, sometimes playing with Mr. Jingles but mostly just lying on his bunk
 and petting him. Wharton tried to get trouble started a couple of times—once
 he hollered down to Del about the mousieburgers they were going to have
 after old Lucky Pierre was dancing the two-step in hell—but the little Cajun
 didn't respond and Wharton, apparently deciding that was his best shot, gave
 it up.
 At quarter past ten, Brother Schuster showed up and delighted us all by
 saying he would recite the Lord's Prayer with Del in Cajun French. It seemed
 like a good omen. In that we were wrong, of course.
 The witnesses began to arrive around eleven, most talking in low tones
 about the impending weather, and speculating about the possibility of a
 power outage postponing the electrocution. None of them seemed to know
 that Old Sparky ran off a generator, and unless that took a direct lightning-hit,
 the show would go on. Harry was in the switch room that night, so he and
 Bill Dodge and Percy Wetmore acted as ushers, seeing folks into their seats
 and asking each one if he'd like a cold drink of water. There were two women
 present: the sister of the girl Del had raped and murdered, and the mother of
 one of the fire victims. The latter lady was large and pale and determined.
 She told Harry Terwilliger that she hoped the man she'd come to see was
 good and scared, that he knew the fires in the furnace were stoked for him,
and that Satan's imps, were waiting for him. Then she burst into tears and
 buried her face in a lace hanky that was almost the size of a pillowslip.
 Thunder, hardly muffled at all by the tin roof, banged harsh and loud.
 People glanced up uneasily. Men who looked uncomfortable wearing ties this
 late at night wiped at their florid cheeks. It was hotter than blue blazes in the
 storage shed. And, of course, they kept turning their eyes to Old Sparky.
 They might have made jokes about this chore earlier in the week, but the
 jokes were gone by eleven-thirty or so that night. I started all this by telling
 you that the humor went out of the situation in a hurry for the people who had
 to sit down in that oak chair, but the condemned prisoners weren't the only
 ones who lost the smiles off their faces when the time actually came. It just
 seemed so bald, somehow, squatting up there on its platform, with the clamps
 on the legs sticking off to either side, looking like the things a person with
 polio would have to wear. There wasn't much talk, and when the thunder
 boomed again, as sharp and personal as a splintering tree, the sister of
 Delacroix's victim gave a little scream. The last person to take his seat in the
 witness's section was Curtis Anderson, Warden Moores's stand-in.
 At eleven-thirty, I approached Delacroix's cell with Brutal and Dean
 walking slightly behind me. Del was sitting on his bunk, with Mr. Jingles in
 his lap. The mouse's head was stretched forward toward the condemned man,
 his little oilspot eyes rapt on Del's face. Del was stroking the top of Mr.
 Jingles's head between his ears. Large silent tears were rolling down Del's
 face, and it was these the mouse seemed to be peering at. Del looked up at the
 sound of our footsteps. He was very pale. From behind me, I sensed rather
 than saw John Coffey standing at his cell door, watching.
 Del winced at the sound of my keys clashing against metal, but held steady,
 continuing to stroke Mr. Jingles's head, as I turned the locks and ran the door
 open.
 'Hi dere, Boss Edgecombe,' he said. 'Hi dere, boys. Say hi, Mr. Jingles.' But
 Mr. Jingles only continued to look raptly up at the balding little man's face, as
 if wondering at the source of his tears. The colored spool had been neatly laid
 aside in the Corona box—laid aside for the last time, I thought, and felt a
 pang.
 'Eduard Delacroix, as an officer of the court... '
 'Boss Edgecombe?'
 I thought about just running on with the set speech, then thought again.
 'What is it, Del?'
He held the mouse out to me. 'Here. Don't let nothing happen to Mr.
 Jingles.'
 'Del, I don't think he'll come to me. He's not—'
 'Mais oui, he say he will. He say he know all about you, Boss Edgecombe,
 and you gonna take him down to dat place in Florida where the mousies do
 their tricks. He say he trust you.' He held his hand out farther, and I'll be
 damned if the mouse didn't step off his palm and onto my shoulder. It was so
 light I couldn't even feel it through my uniform coat, but I sensed it, like a
 small heat. 'And boss? Don't let that bad 'un near him again. Don't let that bad
 'un hurt my mouse.'
 'No, Del. I won't.' The question was, what was I supposed to do with him
 right then? I couldn't very well march Delacroix past the witnesses with a
 mouse perched on my shoulder.
 'I'll take him, boss,' a voice rumbled from behind me. It was John Coffey's
 voice, and it was eerie the way it came right then, as though he had read my
 mind. 'Just for now. If Del don't mind.'
 Del nodded, relieved. 'Yeah, you take im, John, 'til dis foolishment done—
 bien! And den after... ' His gaze shifted back to Brutal and me. 'You gonna
 take him down to Florida. To dat Mouseville Place.'
 'Yeah, most likely Paul and I will do it together,' Brutal said, watching with
 a troubled and unquiet eye as Mr. Jingles stepped off my shoulder and into
 Coffey's huge outstretched palm. Mr. Jingles did this with no protest or
 attempt to run; indeed, he scampered as readily up John Coffey's arm as he
 had stepped onto my shoulder. 'We'll take some of our vacation time. Won't
 we, Paul?'
 I nodded. Del nodded, too, eyes bright, just a trace of a smile on his lips.
 'People pay a dime apiece to see him. Two cents for the kiddies. Ain't dat
 right, Boss, Howell?'
 'That's right, Del.'
 'You a good man, Boss Howell,' Del said. 'You, too, Boss Edgecombe. You
 yell at me sometimes, oui, but not 'less you have to. You all good men except
 for dat Percy. I wish I coulda met you someplace else. Mauvais temps,
 mauvaise chance.'
 'I got something to say to you, Del,' I told him. 'They're just the words I
 have to say to everyone before we walk. No big deal, but it's part of my job.
 Okay?'
 'Oui, monsieur,' he said, and looked at Mr. Jingles, perched on John
Coffey's broad shoulder, for the last time. 'Au revoir, mon ami,' he said,
 beginning to cry harder. 'le t'aime, mon petit.' He blew the mouse a kiss. It
 should have been funny, that blown kiss, or maybe just grotesque, but it
 wasn't. I met Dean's eye for a moment, then had to look away. Dean stared
 down the corridor toward the restraint room and smiled strangely I believe he
 was on the verge of tears. As for me, I said what I had to say, beginning with
 the part about how I was an officer of the court, and when I was done,
 Delacroix stepped out of his cell for the last time.
 'Hold on a second longer, hoss,' Brutal said, and checked the crown of Del's
 head, where the cap would go. He nodded at me, then clapped Del on the
 shoulder. 'Right with Eversharp. We're on our way.'
 So Eduard Delacroix took his last walk on the Green Mile with little
 streams of mingled sweat and tears running down his cheeks and big thunder
 rolling in the sky overhead. Brutal walked on the condemned man's left, I was
 on his right, Dean was to the rear.
 Schuster was in my office, with guards Ringgold and Battle standing in the
 corners and keeping watch. Schuster looked up at Del, smiled, and then
 addressed him in French. It sounded stilted to me, but it worked wonders. Del
 smiled back, then went to Schuster, put his arms around him, hugged him.
 Ringgold and Battle tensed, but I raised my hands to them and shook my
 head.
 Schuster listened to Del's flood of tear-choked French, nodded as if he
 understood perfectly, and patted him on the back. He looked at me over the
 little man's shoulder and said, 'I hardly understand a quarter of what he's
 saying.'
 'Don't think it matters,' Brutal rumbled.
 'Neither do I, son,' Schuster said with a grin. He was the best of them, and
 now I realize I have no idea what became of him. I hope he kept his faith,
 whatever else befell.
 He urged Delacroix onto his knees, then folded his hands. Delacroix did the
 same.
 'Not' P re, qui tes aux cieux,' Schuster began, and Delacroix joined him.
 They spoke the Lord's Prayer together in that liquid-sounding Cajun French,
 all the way to 'mais d liverez-nous du mal, ainsi soit-il.' By then, Del's tears
 had mostly stopped and he looked calm. Some Bible verses (in English)
 followed, not neglecting the old standby about the still waters. When that was
 done, Schuster started to get up, but Del held onto the sleeve of his shirt and
said something in French. Schuster listened carefully, frowning. He
 responded. Del said something else, then just looked at him hopefully.
 Schuster turned to me and said: 'He's got something else, Mr. Edgecombe.
 A prayer I can't help him with, because of my faith. Is it all right?'
 I looked at the clock on the wall and saw it was seventeen minutes to
 midnight. 'Yes,' I said, 'but it'll have to be quick. We've got a schedule to keep
 here, you know.'
 'Yes. I do.' He turned to Delacroix and gave him a nod.
 Del closed his eyes as if to pray, but for a moment said nothing. A frown
 creased his forehead and I had a sense of him reaching far back in his mind,
 as a man may search a small attic room for an object which hasn't been used
 (or needed) for a long, long time. I glanced at the clock again and almost said
 something—would have, if Brutal hadn't twitched my sleeve and shaken his
 head.
 Then Del began, speaking softly but quickly in that Cajun which was as
 round and soft and sensual as a young woman's breast: 'Marie! le vous salue,
 Marie, oui, pleine de gr ce; le Seigneur est avec vous; vous tes b nie entre
 toutes les femmes, et mon cher J sus, le fruit de vos entrailles, est b ni.' He
 was crying again, but I don't think he knew it. 'Sainte Marie,O ma mere, M re
 de Dieu, priez pour moi, priez pour nous, pauv' p cheurs, maint'ant et
 l'heure... l'heure de n tre mort. L'heure de mon mort.' He took a deep,
 shuddering breath. 'Ainsi soit-il.'
 Lightning spilled through the room's one window in a brief blue-white glare
 as Delacroix got to his feet. Everyone jumped and cringed except for Del
 himself; he still seemed lost in the old prayer. He reached out with one hand,
 not looking to see where it went. Brutal took it and squeezed it briefly.
 Delacroix looked at him and smiled a little. 'Nous voyons—' he began, then
 stopped. With a conscious effort, he switched back to English. 'We can go
 now, Boss Howell, Boss Edgecombe. I'm right wit God,'
 'That's good,' I said, wondering how right with God Del was going to feel
 twenty minutes from now, when he stood on the other side of the electricity. I
 hoped his last prayer had been heard, and that Mother Mary was praying for
 him with all her heart and soul, because Eduard Delacroix, rapist and
 murderer, right then needed all the praying he could get his hands on.
 Outside, thunder bashed across the sky again. 'Come on, Del. Not far now.'
 'Fine, boss, dat fine. Because I ain't ascairt no more.' So he said, but I saw
 in his eyes that—Our Father or no Our Father, Hail Mary or no Hail Mary—
he lied. By the time they cross the rest of the green carpet and duck through
 the little door, almost all of them are scared.
 'Stop at the bottom, Del,' I told him in a low voice as he went through, but it
 was advice I needn't have given him. He stopped at the foot of the stairs, all
 right, stopped cold, and what did it was the sight of Percy Wetmore standing
 there on the platform, with the sponge-bucket by one foot and the phone that
 went to the governor just visible beyond his right hip.
 'Non,' Del said in a low, horrified voice. 'Non, non, not him!'
 'Walk on,' Brutal said. 'You just keep your eyes on me and Paul. Forget he's
 there at all.'
 'But—'
 People had turned to look at us, but by moving my body a bit, I could still
 grip Delacroix's left elbow without being seen. 'Steady,' I said in a voice only
 Del—and perhaps Brutal—could hear. 'The only thing most of these people
 will remember about you is how you go out, so give them something good.'
 The loudest crack of thunder yet broke overhead at that moment, loud
 enough to make the storage room's tin roof vibrate. Percy jumped as if
 someone had goosed him, and Del gave a small, contemptuous snort of
 laughter. 'It get much louder dan dat, he gonna piddle in his pants again,' he
 said, and then squared his shoulders—not that he had much to square. 'Come
 on. Let's get it over.'
 We walked to the platform. Delacroix ran a nervous eye over the witnesses
 —about twenty-five of them this time—as we went, but Brutal, Dean, and I
 kept our own eyes trained on the chair. All looked in order to me. I raised one
 thumb and a questioning eyebrow to Percy, who gave a little one-sided
 grimace, as if to say What do you mean, is everything all right? Of course it
 is.
 I hoped he was right.
 Brutal and I reached automatically for Delacroix's elbows as he stepped up
 onto the platform. It's only eight or so inches up from the floor, but you'd be
 surprised how many of them, even the toughest of tough babies, need help to
 make that last step up of their lives.
 Del did okay, though. He stood in front of the chair for a moment
 (resolutely not looking at Percy), then actually spoke to it, as if introducing
 himself: 'C'est moi,' he said. Percy reached for him, but Delacroix turned
 around on his own and sat down. I knelt on what was now his left side, and
 Brutal knelt on his right. I guarded my crotch and my throat in the manner I
have already described, then swung the clamp in so that its open jaws
 encircled the skinny white flesh just above the Cajun's ankle. Thunder
 bellowed and I jumped. Sweat ran in my eye, stinging. Mouseville, I kept
 thinking for some reason. Mouseville, and how it cost a dime to get in. Two
 cents for the kiddies, who would look at Mr. Jingles through his ivy-glass
 windows.
 The clamp was balky, wouldn't shut. I could hear Del breathing in great dry
 pulls of air, lungs that would be charred bags less than four minutes from
 now laboring to keep up with his fear-driven heart. The fact that he had killed
 half a dozen people seemed at that moment the least important thing about
 him. I'm not trying to say anything about right and wrong here, but only to
 tell how it was.
 Dean knelt next to me and whispered, 'What's wrong, Paul?'
 'I can't—' I began, and then the clamp closed with an audible snapping
 sound. It must have also pinched a fold of Delacroixs skin in its jaws,
 because he flinched and made a little hissing noise. 'Sorry,' I said.
 'It okay, boss,' Del said. 'It only gonna hurt for a minute.'
 Brutal's side had the clamp with the electrode in it, which always took a
 little longer, and so we stood up, all three of us, at almost exactly the same
 time. Dean reached for the wrist-clamp on Del's left, and Percy went to the
 one on his right. I was ready to move forward if Percy should need help, but
 he did better with his wrist-clamp than I'd done with my ankle-clamp. I could
 see Del trembling all over now, as if a low current were already passing
 through him. I could smell his sweat, too. It was sour and strong and
 reminded me of weak pickle juice.
 Dean nodded to Percy. Percy turned back over his shoulder—I could see a
 place just under the angle of his jaw where he'd cut himself shaving that day
 —and said in a low, firm voice: 'Roll on one!'
 There was a hum, sort of like the sound an old refrigerator makes when it
 kicks on, and the hanging lights in the storage room brightened. There were a
 few low gasps and murmurs from the audience. Del jerked in the chair, his
 hands gripping the ends of the oak arms hard enough to turn the knuckles
 white. His eyes rolled rapidly from side to side in their sockets, and his dry
 breathing quickened even more. He was almost panting now.
 'Steady,' Brutal murmured. 'Steady, Del, you're doing just fine. Hang on,
 you're doing just fine.'
 Hey you guys! I thought. Come and see what Mr. Jingles can do! And
overhead, the thunder banged again.
 Percy stepped grandly around to the front of the electric chain This was his
 big moment, he was at center stage, all eyes were on him. All, that was, but
 for one set. Delacroix saw who it was and looked down at his lap instead. I
 would have bet you a dollar to a doughnut that Percy would flub his lines
 when he actually had to say them for an audience, but he reeled them off
 without a hitch, in an eerily calm voice.
 'Eduard Delacroix, you have been condemned to die in the electric chair,
 sentence passed by a jury of your peers and imposed by a judge of good
 standing in this state, God save the people of this state. Do you have anything
 to say before sentence is carried out?'
 Del tried to speak and at first nothing came out but a terrified whisper full
 of air and vowel-sounds. The shadow of a contemptuous smile touched the
 corners of Percy's lips, and I could have cheerfully shot him right there. Then
 Del licked his lips and tried again.
 ' I sorry for what I do,' he said. 'I give anything to turn back the clock, but
 no one can. So now—' Thunder exploded like an airburst mortar shell above
 us. Del jumped as much as the clamps would allow, eyes starting wildly out
 of his wet face. 'So now I pay the price. God forgive me.' He licked his lips
 again, and looked at Brutal. 'Don't forget your promise about Mr. Jingles,' he
 said in a lower voice that was meant just for us.
 'We won't, don't worry,' I said, and patted Delacroix's clay-cold hand. 'He's
 going to Mouseville—'
 'The hell he is' ' Percy said, speaking from the corner of his mouth like a
 yardwise con as he hooked the restraining belt across Delacroix's chest.
 'There's no such place. It's a fairy-tale these guys made up to keep you quiet.
 Just thought you should know, faggot.'
 A stricken light in Del's eyes told me that part of him had known... but
 would have kept the knowledge from the rest of him, if allowed. I looked at
 Percy, dumbfounded and furious, and he looked back at me levelly, as if to
 ask what I meant to do about it. And he had me, of course. There was nothing
 I could do about it, not in front of the witnesses, not with Delacroix now
 sitting on the furthest edge of life. There was nothing to do now but go on
 with it, finish it.
 Percy took the mask from its hook and rolled it down over Del's face,
 snugging it tight under the little man's undershot chin so as to stretch the hole
 in the top. Taking the sponge from the bucket and putting it in the cap was
the next, and it was here that Percy diverged from the routine for the first
 time: instead of just bending over and fishing the sponge out, he took the
 steel cap from the back of the chair, and bent over with it in his hands.
 Instead of bringing the sponge to the cap, in other words—which would have
 been the natural way to do it—he brought the cap to the sponge. I should
 have realized something was wrong, but I was too upset. It was the only
 execution I ever took part in where I felt totally out of control. As for Brutal,
 he never looked at Percy at all, not as Percy bent over the bucket (moving so
 as to partially block what he was doing from our view), not as he straightened
 up and turned to Del with the cap in his hands and the brown circle of sponge
 already inside it. Brutal was looking at the cloth which had replaced Del's
 face, watching the way the black silk mask drew in, outlining the circle of
 Del's open mouth, and then puffed out again with his breath. There were big
 beads of perspiration on Brutal's forehead, and at his temples, just below the
 hairline. I had never seen him sweat at an execution before. Behind him,
 Dean looked distracted and W, as if he was fighting not to lose his supper.
 We all understood that something was wrong, I know that now. We just
 couldn't tell what it was. No one knew—not then—about the questions Percy
 had been asking Jack Van Hay. There were a lot of them, but I suspect most
 were just camouflage. What Percy wanted to know about—the only thing
 Percy wanted to know about, I believe—was the sponge. The purpose of the
 sponge. Why it was soaked in brine... and what would happen if it was not
 soaked in brine.
 What would happen if the sponge was dry.
 Percy jammed the cap down on Del's head. The little man jumped and
 moaned again, this time louder. Some of the witnesses stirred uneasily on
 their folding chairs. Dean took a half-step forward, meaning to help with the
 chin-strap, and Percy motioned him curtly to step back. Dean did, hunching a
 little and wincing as another blast of thunder shook the storage shed. This
 time it was followed by the first spatters of rain across the roof. They
 sounded hard, like someone flinging handfuls of goobers onto a washboard.
 You've heard people say 
 about things, haven't you?
 Sure. All of us have, but the only time in all my years that I actually felt it
 happen to me was on that new and thunderstruck morning in October of
 1932, at about ten seconds past midnight. It wasn't the look of poison triumph
 on Percy Wetmore's face as he stepped away from the capped, clamped, and
 hooded figure sitting there in Old Sparky; it was what I should have seen and
didn't. There was no water running down Del's cheeks from out of the cap.
 That was when I finally got it.
 'Edward Delacroix,' Percy was saying, 'electricity shall now be passed
 through your body until you are dead, according to state law.'
 I looked over at Brutal in an agony that made my urinary infection seem
 like a bumped finger The sponge is dry! I mouthed at him, but he only shook
 his head, not understanding, and looked back at the mask over the
 Frenchman's face, where the man's last few breaths were pulling the black
 silk in and then blousing it out again.
 I reached for Percy's elbow and he stepped away from me, giving me a flat
 look as he did so. It was only a momentary glance, but it told me everything.
 Later he would tell his lies and his half-truths, and most would be believed by
 the people who mattered, but I knew a different story. Percy was a good
 student when he was doing something he cared about, we'd found that out at
 the rehearsals, and he had listened carefully when Jack Van Hay explained
 how the brine-soaked sponge conducted the juice, channelling it, turning the
 charge into a kind of electric bullet to the brain. Oh yes, Percy knew exactly
 what he was doing. I think I believed him later when he said I didn't know
 how far it would go, but that doesn't even count in the good-intentions
 column, does it? I don't think so. Yet, short of screaming in front of the
 assistant warden and all the witnesses for Jack Van Hay not to pull the
 switch, there was nothing I could do. Given another five seconds, I think I
 might have screamed just that, but Percy didn't give me another five seconds.
 'May God have mercy on your soul,' he told the panting, terrified figure in
 the electric chair, then looked past him at the mesh-covered rectangle where
 Harry and Jack were standing, Jack with his hand on the switch marked
 MABEL'S HAIR DRIER. The doctor was standing to the right of that
 window, eyes fixed on the black bag between his feet, as silent and self
effacing as ever. 'Roll on two!'
 At first it was the same as always—the humming that was a little louder
 than the original cycle-up, but not much, and the mindless forward surge of
 Del's body as his muscles spasmed.
 Then things started going wrong.
 The humming lost its steadiness and began to waver. It was joined by a
 crackling sound, like cellophane being crinkled. I could smell something
 horrible that I didn't identify as a mixture of burning hair and organic sponge
 until I saw blue tendrils of smoke curling out from beneath the edges of the
cap. More smoke was streaming out of the hole in the top of the cap that the
 wire came in through; it looked like smoke coming out of the hole in an
 Indian's teepee.
 Delacroix began to jitter and twist in the chair, his mask-covered face
 snapping from side to side as if in some vehement refusal. His legs began to
 piston up and down in short strokes that were hampered by the clamps on his
 ankles. Thunder banged overhead, and now the rain began to pour down
 harder.
 I looked at Dean Stanton; he stared wildly back. There was a muffled pop
 from under the cap, like a pine knot exploding in a hot fire, and now I could
 see smoke coming through the mask, as well, seeping out in little curls.
 I lunged toward the mesh between us and the switch room, but before I
 could open my mouth, Brutus Howell seized my elbow. His grip was hard
 enough to make the nerves in there tingle. He was as white as tallow but not
 in a panic—not even close to being in a panic. 'Don't you tell Jack to stop,' he
 said in a low voice. 'Whatever you do, don't tell him that. It's too late to stop.'
 At first, when Del began to scream, the witnesses didn't hear him. The rain
 on the tin roof had swelled to a roar, and the thunder was damned near
 continuous. But those of us on the platform heard him, all right—choked
 howls of pain from beneath the smoking mask, sounds an animal caught and
 mangled in a hay-baler might make.
 The hum from the cap was ragged and wild now, broken by bursts of what
 sounded like radio static. Delacroix began to slam back and forth in the chair
 like a kid doing a tantrum. The platform shook, and he hit the leather
 restraining belt almost hard enough to pop it. The current was also twisting
 him from side to side, and I heard the crunching snap as his right shoulder
 either broke or dislocated. It went with a sound like someone hitting a
 wooden crate with a sledgehammer. The crotch of his pants, no more than a
 blur because of the short pistoning strokes of his legs, darkened. Then he
 began to squeal, horrible sounds, high-pitched and ratlike, that were audible
 even over the rushing downpour.
 'What the hell's happening to him?' someone cried.
 'Are those clamps going to hold?'
 'Christ, the smell! Phew!'
 Then, one of the two women: 'Is this normal?'
 Delacroix snapped forward, dropped back, snapped forward, fell back.
 Percy was staring at him with slack-jawed horror. He had expected
something, sure, but not this.
 The mask burst into flame on Delacroix's face. The smell of cooking hair
 and sponge was now joined by the smell of cooking flesh. Brutal grabbed the
 bucket the sponge had been in—it was empty now, of course—and charged
 for the extra-deep janitor's sink in the corner.
 'Shouldn't I kill the juice, Paul?' Van Hay called through the mesh. He
 sounded completely rattled. 'Shouldn't—'
 'No!' I shouted back. Brutal had understood it first, but I hadn't been far
 behind: we had to finish it. Whatever else we might do in all the rest of our
 lives was secondary to that one thing: we had to finish with Delacroix. 'Roll,
 for Christ's sake! Roll, roll, roll!'
 I turned to Brutal, hardly aware of the people talking behind us now, some
 on their feet, a couple screaming. 'Quit that!' I yelled at Brutal. 'No water! No
 water! Are you nuts?'
 Brutal turned toward me, a kind of dazed understanding on his face. Throw
 water on a man who was getting the juice. Oh yes. That would be very smart.
 He looked around, saw the chemical fire extinguisher hanging on the wall,
 and got that instead. Good boy.
 The mask had peeled away from Delacroix's face enough to reveal features
 that had gone blacker than John Coffey's. His eyes, now nothing but
 misshapen globs of white, filmy jelly, had been blown out of their sockets
 and lay on his cheeks. His eyelashes were gone, and as I looked, the lids
 themselves caught fire and began to burn. Smoke puffed from the open V of
 his shirt. And still the humming of the electricity went on and on, filling my
 head, vibrating in there. I think it's the sound mad people must hear, that or
 something like it.
 Dean started forward, thinking in some dazed way that he could beat the
 fire out of Del's shirt with his hands, and I yanked him away almost hard
 enough to pull him off his feet. Touching Delacroix at that point would have
 been like Brer Rabbit punching into the Tar-Baby. An electrified Tar-Baby,
 in this case.
 I still didn't turn around to see what was going on behind us, but it sounded
 like pandemonium, chairs falling over, people bellowing, a woman crying
 'Stop it, stop it, oh can't you see he's had enough?' at the top of her lungs.
 Curtis Anderson grabbed my shoulder and asked what was happening, for
 Christ's sake, what was happening, and why didn't I order jack to shut down?
 'Because I can't,' I said. 'We've gone too far to turn back, can't you see that?
It'll be over in a few more seconds, anyway.'
 But it was at least two minutes before it was over, the longest two minutes
 of my whole life, and through most of it I think Delacroix was conscious. He
 screamed and jittered and rocked from side to side. Smoke poured from his
 nostrils and from a mouth that had gone the purple-black of ripe plums.
 Smoke drifted up from his tongue the way smoke rises from a hot griddle. All
 the buttons on his shirt either burst or melted. His undershirt did not quite
 catch fire, but it charred and smoke poured through it and we could smell his
 chest-hair roasting. Behind us, people were heading for the door like cattle in
 a stampede. They couldn't get out through it, of course—we were in a damn
 prison, after all—so they simply clustered around it while Delacroix fried
 (Now I'm fryin, Old Toot had said when we were rehearsing for Arlen
 Bitterbuck, I'm a done tom turkey) and the thunder rolled and the rain ran
 down out of the sky in a perfect fury.
 At some point I thought of the doc and looked around for him. He was still
 there, but crumpled on the floor beside his black bag. He'd fainted.
 Brutal came up and stood beside me, holding the fire extinguisher.
 'Not yet,' I said.
 'I know.'
 We looked around for Percy and saw him standing almost behind Sparky
 now, frozen, eyes huge, one knuckle crammed into his mouth.
 Then, at last, Delacroix slumped back in the chair, his bulging, misshapen
 face lying over on one shoulder. He was still jittering, but we'd seen this
 before; it was the current running through him. The cap had come askew on
 his head, but when we took it off a little later, most of his scalp and his
 remaining fringe of hair came with it, bonded to the metal as if by some
 powerful adhesive.
 'Kill it!' I called to Jack when thirty seconds had gone by with nothing but
 electric jitters coming from the smoking, man-shaped lump of charcoal
 lolling in the electric chair. The hum died immediately, and I nodded to
 Brutal.
 He turned and slammed the fire extinguisher into Percy's arms so hard that
 Percy staggered backward and almost fell off the platform. 'You do it,' Brutal
 said. 'You're running the show, after all, ain't you?'
 Percy gave him a look that was both sick and murderous, then armed the
 extinguisher, pumped it, cocked it, and shot a huge cloud of white foam over
 the man in the chair. I saw Del's foot twitch once as the spray hit his face and
thought Oh no, we might have to go again, but there was only that single
 twitch.
 Anderson had turned around and was bawling at the panicky witnesses,
 telling them everything was all right, everything was under control, just a
 powersurge from the electrical storm, nothing to worry about. Next thing,
 he'd be telling them that what they smelled—a devil's mixture of burned hair,
 fried meat, and fresh-baked shit—was Chanel No. 5.
 'Get doc's stethoscope,' I told Dean as the extinguisher ran dry. Delacroix
 was coated with white now, and the worst of the stench was being overlaid by
 a thin and bitter chemical smell.
 'Doc... should I... '
 'Never mind doc, just get his stethoscope,' I said. 'Let's get this over... get
 him out of here.'
 Dean nodded. Over and out of here were two concepts that appealed to him
 just then. They appealed to both of us. He went over to doc's bag and began
 rummaging in it. Doc was beginning to move again, so at least he hadn't had
 a stroke or a heart-storm. That was good. But the way Brutal was looking at
 Percy wasn't.
 'Get down in the tunnel and wait by the gurney,' I said.
 Percy swallowed. 'Paul, listen. I didn't know—'
 'Shut up. Get down in the tunnel and wait by the gurney. Now.'
 He swallowed, grimaced as if it hurt, and then walked toward the door
 which led to the stairs and the tunnel. He carried the empty fire extinguisher
 in his arms, as if it were a baby Dean passed him, coming back to me with the
 stethoscope. I snatched it and set the earpieces. I'd done this before, in the
 army, and it's sort of like riding a bike—you don't forget.
 I wiped at the foam on Delacroix's chest, then had to gag back vomit as a
 large, hot section of his skin simply slid away from the flesh beneath, the way
 the skin will slide off a... well, you know. A done tom turkey.
 'Oh my God' a voice I didn't recognize almost sobbed behind me. 'Is it
 always this way? Why didn't somebody tell me? I never would have come!'
 Too late now, friend, I thought. 'Get that man out of here,' I said to Dean or
 Brutal or whoever might be listening—I said it when I was sure I could speak
 without puking into Delacroix's smoking lap. 'Get them all back by the door.'
 I steeled myself as best I could, then put the disc of the stethoscope on the
 red-black patch of raw flesh I'd made on Del's chest. I listened, praying I
 would hear nothing, and that's just what I did hear.
'He's dead,' I told Brutal.
 'Thank Christ.'
 'Yes. Thank Christ. You and Dean get the stretcher. Let's unbuckle him and
 get him out of here, fast.'
 5 
We got his body down the twelve stairs and onto the gurney all right. My
 nightmare was that his cooked flesh might slough right off his bones as we
 lugged him—it was Old Toot's done tom turkey that had gotten into my head
 —but of course that didn't happen.
 Curtis Anderson was upstairs soothing the spectators—trying to, anyway—
 and that was good for Brutal, because Anderson wasn't there to see when
 Brutal took a step toward the head of the gurney and pulled his arm back to
 slug Percy, who was standing there looking stunned. I caught his arm, and
 that was good for both of them. It was good for Percy because Brutal meant
 to deliver a blow of near-decapitory force, and good for Brutal because he
 would have lost his job if the blow had connected, and maybe ended up in
 prison himself.
 'No,' I said.
 'What do you mean, no?' he asked me furiously. 'How can you say no? You
 saw what he did! What are you telling me? That you're still going to let his
 connections protect him? After what he did?'
 Brutal stared at me, mouth agape, eyes so angry they were watering.
 'Listen to me, Brutus—you take a poke at him, and most likely we all go.
 You, me, Dean, Harry, maybe even Jack Van Hay. Everyone else moves a
 rung or two up the ladder, starting with Bill Dodge, and the Prison
 Commission hires three or four Breadline Barneys to fill the spots at the
 bottom. Maybe you can live with that, but—' I cocked my thumb at Dean,
 who was staring down the dripping, brick-lined tunnel. He was holding his
 specs in one hand, and looked almost as dazed as Percy. 'But what about
 Dean? He's got two kids, one in high school and one just about to go.'
 'So what's it come down to?' Brutal asked. 'We let him get away with it?'
 'I didn't know the sponge was supposed to be wet,' Percy said in a faint,
 mechanical voice. This was the story he had rehearsed beforehand, of course,
 when he was expecting a painful prank instead of the cataclysm we had just
witnessed. 'It was never wet when we rehearsed.'
 'Aw, you sucker—' Brutal began, and started for Percy. I grabbed him again
 and yanked him back. Footsteps clacked on the steps. I looked up,
 desperately afraid of seeing Curtis Anderson, but it was Harry Terwilliger.
 His cheeks were paper-white and his lips were purplish, as if he'd been eating
 blackberry cobbler.
 I switched my attention back to Brutal. 'For God's sake, Brutal, Delacroix's
 dead, nothing can change that, and Percy's not worth it.' Was the plan, or the
 beginnings of it, in my head even then? I've wondered about that since, let me
 tell you. I've wondered over the course of a lot of years, and have never been
 able to come up with a satisfactory answer. I suppose it doesn't matter much.
 A lot of things don't matter, but it doesn't keep a man from wondering about
 them, I've noticed.
 'You guys talk about me like I was a chump,' Percy said. He still sounded
 dazed and winded—as if someone had punched him deep in the gut—but he
 was coming back a little.
 'You are a chump, Percy,' I said.
 'Hey, you can't—'
 I controlled my own urge to hit him only with the greatest effort. Water
 dripped hollowly from the bricks down in the tunnel; our shadows danced
 huge and misshapen on the walls, like shadows in that Poe story about the big
 ape in the Rue Morgue. Thunder bashed, but down here it was muffled.
 'I only want to hear one thing from you, Percy, and that's you repeating
 your promise to put in for Briar Ridge tomorrow.'
 'Don't worry about that,' he said sullenly. He looked at the sheeted figure on
 the gurney, looked away, flicked his eyes up toward my face for a moment,
 then looked away again.
 'That would be for the best,' Harry said. 'Otherwise, you might get to know
 Wild Bill Wharton a whole lot better than you want to.' A slight pause. 'We
 could see to it.'
 Percy was afraid of us, and he was probably afraid of what we might do if
 he was still around when we found out he'd been talking to Jack Van Hay
 about what the sponge was for and why we always soaked it in brine, but
 Harry's mention of Wharton woke real terror in his eyes. I could see him
 remembering how Wharton had held him, ruffling his hair and crooning to
 him.
 'You wouldn't dare,' Percy whispered.
'Yes I would,' Harry replied calmly. 'And do you know what? I'd get away
 with it. Because you've already shown yourself to be careless as hell around
 the prisoners. Incompetent, too.'
 Percy's fists bunched and his cheeks colored in a thin pink. 'I am not—'
 'Sure you are,' Dean said, joining us. We formed a rough semicircle around
 Percy at the foot of the stairs, and even a retreat up the tunnel was blocked;
 the gurney was behind him, with its load of smoking flesh hidden under an
 old sheet. 'You just burned Delacroix alive. If that ain't incompetent, what is?'
 Percy's eyes flickered. He had been planning to cover himself by pleading
 ignorance, and now he saw he was hoist by his own petard. I don't know what
 he might have said next, because Curtis Anderson came lunging down the
 stairs just then.
 We heard him and drew back from Percy a little, so as not to look quite so
 threatening.
 'What in the blue fuck was that all about? Anderson roared. 'Jesus Christ,
 there's puke all over the floor up there! And the smell! I got Magnusson and
 Old Toot-Toot to open both doors, but that smell won't come out for five
 damn years, that's what I'm betting. And that asshole Wharton is singing
 about it! I can hear him!'
 'Can he carry a tune, Curt?' Brutal asked. You know how you can bum off
 illuminating gas with a single spark and not be hurt if you do it before the
 concentration gets too heavy? This was like that. We took an instant to gape
 at Brutus, and then we were all howling. Our high, hysterical laughter flapped
 up and down the gloomy tunnel like bats. Our shadows bobbed and flickered
 on the walls. Near the end, even Percy joined in. At last it died, and in its
 aftermath we all felt a little better. Felt sane again.
 'Okay, boys,' Anderson said, mopping at his teary eyes with his
 handkerchief and still snorting out an occasional hiccup of laughter, 'what the
 hell happened?'
 'An execution,' Brutal said. I think his even tone surprised Anderson, but it
 didn't surprise me, at least not much; Brutal had always been good at turning
 down his dials in a hurry. 'A successful one.'
 'How in the name of Christ can you call a direct-current abortion like that a
 success? We've got witnesses that won't sleep for a month! Hell, that fat old
 broad probably won't sleep for a year!'
 Brutal pointed at the gurney, and the shape under the sheet. 'He's dead, ain't
 he? As for your witnesses, most of them will be telling their friends
tomorrow night that it was poetic justice—Del there burned a bunch of
 people alive, so we turned around and burned him alive. Except they won't
 say it was us. They'll say it was the will of God, working through us. Maybe
 there's even some truth to that. And you want to know the best part? The
 absolute cat's pajamas? Most of their friends will wish they'd been here to see
 it.' He gave Percy a look both distasteful and sardonic as he said this last.
 'And if their feathers are a little ruffled, so what?' Harry asked. 'They
 volunteered for the damn job, nobody drafted them.'
 'I didn't know the sponge was supposed to be wet,' Percy said in his robot's
 voice. 'It's never wet in rehearsal.'
 Dean looked at him with utter disgust. 'How many years did you spend
 pissing on the toilet seat before someone told you to put it up before you
 start?' he snarled.
 Percy opened his mouth to reply, but I told him to shut up. For a wonder, he
 did. I turned to Anderson.
 'Percy fucked up, Curtis—that's what happened, pure and simple.' I turned
 toward Percy, daring him to contradict me. He didn't, maybe because he read
 my eyes: better that Anderson hear stupid mistake than on purpose. And
 besides, whatever was said down here in the tunnel didn't matter. What
 mattered, what always matters to the Percy Wetmores of the world, is what
 gets written down or overheard by the big bugs—the people who matter.
 What matters to the Percys of the world is how it plays in the newspapers.
 Anderson looked at the five of us uncertainly. He even looked at Del, but
 Del wasn't talking. 'I guess it could be worse,' Anderson said.
 'That's right,' I agreed. 'He could still be alive.'
 Curtis blinked—that possibility seemed not to have crossed his mind. 'I
 want a complete report about this on my desk tomorrow,' he said. 'And none
 of you are going to talk to Warden Moores about it until I've had my chance.
 Are you?'
 We shook our heads vehemently. If Curtis Anderson wanted to tell the
 warden, why, that was fine by us.
 'If none of those asshole scribblers put it in their papers—'
 'They won't,' I said. 'If they tried, their editors'd kill it. Too gruesome for a
 family audience. But they won't even try—they were all vets tonight.
 Sometimes things go wrong, that's all. They know it as well as we do.'
 Anderson considered a moment longer, then nodded. He turned his
 attention to Percy, an expression of disgust on his usually pleasant face.
'You're a little asshole,' he said, 'and I don't like you a bit.' He nodded at
 Percy's look of flabbergasted surprise. 'If you tell any of your candy-ass
 friends I said that, I'll deny it until Aunt Rhody's old gray goose comes back
 to life, and these men will back me up. You've got a problem, son.'
 He turned and started up the stairs. I let him get four steps and then said:
 'Curtis?'
 He turned back, eyebrows raised, saying nothing.
 'You don't want to worry too much about Percy,' I said. 'He's moving on to
 Briar Ridge soon. Bigger and better things. Isn't that right, Percy?'
 'As soon as his transfer comes through,' Brutal added.
 'And until it comes, he's going to call in sick every night,' Dean put in.
 That roused Percy, who hadn't been working at the prison long enough to
 have accumulated any paid sick-time. He looked at Dean with bright distaste.
 'Don't you wish,' he said.
 6 
We were back on the block by one-fifteen or so (except for Percy, who had
 been ordered to clean up the storage room and was sulking his way through
 the job), me with a report to write. I decided to do it at the duty desk; if I sat
 in my more comfortable office chair, I'd likely doze off. That probably
 sounds peculiar to you, given what had happened only an hour before' but I
 felt as if I'd lived three lifetimes since eleven o'clock the previous night, all of
 them without sleep.
 John Coffey was standing at his cell door, tears streaming from his strange,
 distant eyes—it was like watching blood run out of some unhealable but
 strangely painless wound. Closer to the desk, Wharton was sitting on his
 bunk, rocking from side to side, and singing a song apparently of his own
 invention, and not quite nonsense. As well as I can remember, it went
 something like this:
 'Bar-be-cue! Me and you! Stinky, pinky, phew-phew-phew! It wasn't Billy
 or Philadelphia Philly, it wasn't Jackie or Roy! It was a warm little number, a
 hot cucumber, by the name of Delacroix!'
 'Shut up, you jerk,' I said.
Wharton grinned, showing his mouthful of dingy teeth. He wasn't dying, at
 least not yet; he was up, happy, practically tap-dancing. 'Come on in here and
 make me, why don't you?' he said happily, and then began another verse of
 'The Barbecue Song,' making up words not quite at random. There was
 something going on in there, all right. A kind of green and stinking
 intelligence that was, in its own way, almost brilliant.
 I went down to John Coffey. He wiped away his tears with the heels of his
 hands. His eyes were red and sore-looking, and it came to me that he was
 exhausted, too. Why he should have been, a man who trudged around the
 exercise yard maybe two hours a day and either sat or laid down in his cell
 the rest of the time, I didn't know, but I didn't doubt what I was seeing. It was
 too clear.
 'Poor Del,' he said in a low, hoarse voice. 'Poor old Del.'
 'Yes,' I said. 'Poor old Del. John, are you okay?'
 'He's out of it,' Coffey said. 'Del's out of it. Isn't he, boss?'
 'Yes. Answer my question, John. Are you okay?'
 'Del's out of it, he's the lucky one. No matter how it happened, he's the
 lucky one.'
 I thought Delacroix might have given him an argument on that, but didn't
 say so. I glanced around Coffey's cell, instead. 'Where's Mr. Jingles?'
 'Ran down there.' He pointed through the bars, down the hall to the
 restraint-room door.
 I nodded. 'Well, he'll be back.'
 But he wasn't; Mr. Jingles's days on the Green Mile were over. The only
 trace of him we ever happened on was what Brutal found that winter: a few
 brightly colored splinters of wood, and a smell of peppermint candy wafting
 out of a hole in a beam.
 I meant to walk away then, but I didn't. I looked at John Coffey, and he
 back at me as if he knew everything I was thinking. I told myself to get
 moving, to just call it a night and get moving, back to the duty desk and my
 report. Instead I said his name: 'John Coffey.'
 'Yes, boss,' he said at once.
 Sometimes a man is cursed with needing to know a thing, and that was how
 it was with me right then. I dropped down on one knee and began taking off
 one of my shoes.
7 
The rain had quit by the time I got home, and a late grin of moon had
 appeared over the ridges to the north. My sleepiness seemed to have gone
 with the clouds. I was wide awake, and I could smell Delacroix on me. I
 thought I might smell him on my skin—barbecue, me and you, stinky, pinky,
 phew-phew-phew—for a long time to come.
 Janice was waiting up, as she always did on execution nights. I meant not to
 tell her the story, saw no sense in harrowing her with it, but she got a clear
 look at my face as I came in the kitchen door and would have it all. So I sat
 down, took her warm hands in my cold ones (the heater in my old Ford
 barely worked, and the weather had turned a hundred and eighty degrees
 since the storm), and told her what she thought she wanted to hear. About
 halfway through I broke down crying, which I hadn't expected. I was a little
 ashamed, but only a little; it was her, you see, and she never taxed me with
 the times that I slipped from the way I thought a man should be... the way I
 thought I should be, at any rate. A man with a good wife is the luckiest of
 God's creatures, and one without must be among the most miserable, I think,
 the only true blessing of their lives that they don't know how poorly off they
 are. I cried, and she held my head against her breast, and when my own storm
 passed, I felt better... a little, anyway. And I believe that was when I had the
 first conscious sight of my idea. Not the shoe; I don't mean that. The shoe
 was related, but different. All my real idea was right then, however, was an
 odd realization: that John Coffey and Melinda Moores, different as they
 might have been in size and sex and skin color, had exactly the same eyes:
 woeful, sad, and distant. Dying eyes.
 'Come to bed,' my wife said at last. 'Come to bed with me, Paul.'
 So I did, and we made love, and when it was over she went to sleep. As I
 lay there watching the moon grin and listening to the walls tick—they were at
 last pulling in, exchanging summer for fall—I thought about John Coffey
 saying he had helped it. I helped Del's mouse. I helped Mr. Jingles. He's a
 circus mouse. Sure. And maybe, I thought, we were all circus mice, running
 around with only the dimmest awareness that God and all His heavenly host
 were watching us in our Bakelite houses through our ivy-glass windows.
 I slept a little as the day began to lighten—two hours, I guess, maybe three;
 and I slept the way I always sleep these days here in Georgia Pines and
hardly ever did then, in thin little licks. What I went to sleep thinking about
 was the churches youth. The names changed, depending on the whims of my
 mother and her sisters, but they were all really the same, all The First
 Backwoods Church of Praise Jesus, The Lord Is Mighty. In the shadow of
 those blunt, square steeples, the concept of atonement came up as regularly as
 the toll of the bell which called the faithful to worship. Only God could
 forgive sins, could and did, washing them away in the agonal blood of His
 crucified Son, but that did not change the responsibility of His children to
 atone for those sins (and even their simple errors of judgement) whenever
 possible. Atonement was powerful; it was the lock on the door you closed
 against the past.
 I fell asleep thinking of piney-woods atonement, and Eduard Delacroix on
 fire as he rode the lightning, and Melinda Moores, and my big boy with the
 endlessly weeping eyes. These thoughts twisted their way into a dream. In it,
 John Coffey was sitting on a riverbank and bawling his inarticulate
 mooncalf's grief up at the early-summer sky while on the other bank a
 freight-train stormed endlessly toward a rusty trestle spanning the Trapingus.
 In the crook of each arm the black man held the body of a naked, blonde
haired girlchild. His fists, huge brown rocks at the ends of those arms' were
 closed. All around him crickets chirred and noseeums flocked; the day
 hummed with heat. In my dream I went to him, knelt before him, and took his
 hands. His fists relaxed and gave up their secrets. In one was a spool colored
 green and red and yellow. In the other was a prison guard's shoe.
 'I couldn't help it,' John Coffey said. 'I tried to take it back, but it was too
 late.'
 And this time, in my dream, I understood him.
 8 
At nine o'clock the next morning, while I was having a third cup of coffee
 in the kitchen (my wife said nothing, but I could see disapproval large on her
 face when she brought it to me), the telephone rang. I went into the parlor to
 take it, and Central told someone that their party was holding the line. She
 then told me to have a birdlarky day and rang off... presumably. With
 Central, you could never quite tell for sure.
 Hal Moores's voice shocked me. Wavery and hoarse, it sounded like the
voice of an octogenarian. It occurred to me that it was good that things had
 gone all right with Curtis Anderson in the tunnel last night, good that he felt
 about the same as we did about Percy, because this man I was talking to
 would very likely never work another day at Cold Mountain.
 'Paul, I understand there was trouble last night. I also understand that our
 friend Mr. Wetmore war, involved.'
 'A spot of trouble,' I admitted, holding the receiver tight to my ear and
 leaning in toward the horn, 'but the job got done. That's the important thing.'
 'Yes. Of course.'
 'Can I ask who told you?' So I can tie a can to his tail? I didn't add.
 'You can ask, but since it's really none of your beeswax, I think I'll keep my
 mouth shut on that score. But when I called my office to see if there were any
 messages or urgent business, I was told an interesting thing.'
 'Oh?'
 'Yes. Seems a transferral application landed in my basket. Percy Wetmore
 wants to go to Briar Ridge as soon as possible. Must have filled out the
 application even before last night's shift was over, wouldn't you think?'
 'It sounds that way,' I agreed.
 'Ordinarily I'd let Curtis handle it, but considering the... atmosphere on E
 Block just lately, I asked Hannah to run it over to me personally on her lunch
 hour. She has graciously agreed to do so. I'll approve it and see it's forwarded
 on to the state capital this afternoon. I expect you'll get a look at Percy's
 backside going out the door in no more than a month. Maybe less.'
 He expected me to be pleased with this news, and had a right to expect it.
 He had taken time out from tending his wife to expedite a matter that might
 otherwise have taken upwards of half a year, even with Percy's vaunted
 connections. Nevertheless, my heart sank. A month! But maybe it didn't
 matter much, one way or the other. It removed a perfectly natural desire to
 wait and put off a risky endeavor, and what I was now thinking about would
 be very risky indeed. Sometimes, when that's the case, it's better to jump
 before you can lose your nerve. If we were going to have to deal with Percy
 in any case (always assuming I could get the others to go along with my
 insanity—always assuming there was a we, in other words), it might as well
 be tonight.
 'Paul? Are you there?' His voice lowered a little, as if he thought he was
 now talking to himself. 'Damn, I think I lost the connection.'
 'No, I'm here, Hal. That's great news.'
'Yes,' he agreed, and I was again struck by how old he sounded. How
 papery, somehow. 'Oh, I know what you're thinking.'
 No, you don't, Warden, I thought. Never in a million years could you know
 what I'm thinking.
 'You're thinking that our young friend will still be around for the Coffey
 execution. That's probably true—Coffey will go well before Thanksgiving, I
 imagine—but you can put him back in the switch room. No one will object.
 Including him, I should think.'
 'I'll do that,' I said. 'Hal, how's Melinda?'
 There was a long pause so long I might have thought I'd lost him, except for
 the sound of his breathing. When he spoke this time, it was in a much lower
 tone of voice. 'She's sinking,' he said.
 Sinking. That chilly word the old-timers used not to describe a person who
 was dying, exactly, but one who had begun to uncouple from living.
 'The headaches seem a little better... for now, anyway... but she can't walk
 without help, she can't pick things up, she loses control of her water while she
 sleeps... ' There was another pause, and then, in an even lower voice, Hal said
 something that sounded like 'She wears.'
 'Wears what, Hal?' I asked, frowning. My wife had come into the parlor
 doorway. She stood there wiping her hands on a dishtowel and looking at me.
 'No,' he said in a voice that seemed to waver between anger and tears. 'She
 swears.'
 'Oh.' I still didn't know what he meant, but had no intention of pursuing it. I
 didn't have to; he did it for me.
 'She'll be all right, perfectly normal, talking about her flower-garden or a
 dress she saw in the catalogue, or maybe about how she heard Roosevelt on
 the radio and how wonderful he sounds, and then, all at once, she'll start to
 say the most awful things, the most awful... words. She doesn't raise her
 voice. It would almost be better if she did, I think, because then... you see,
 then... '
 'She wouldn't sound so much like herself.'
 'That's it,' he said gratefully. 'But to hear her saying those awful gutter
language things in her sweet voice... pardon me, Paul.' His voice trailed away
 and I heard him noisily clearing his throat. Then he came back, sounding a
 little stronger but just as distressed. 'She wants to have Pastor Donaldson
 over, and I know he's a comfort to her, but how can I ask him? Suppose that
 he's sitting there, reading Scripture with her, and she calls him a foul name?
She could; she called me one last night. She said, 'Hand me that Liberty
 magazine, you cocksucker, would you?' Paul, where could she have ever
 heard such language? How could she know those words?'
   'I don't know. Hal, are you going to be home this evening?'
   When he was well and in charge of himself, not distracted by worry or
 grief, Hal Moores had a cutting and sarcastic facet to his personality; his
 subordinates feared that side of him even more than his anger or his
 contempt, I think. His sarcasm, usually impatient and often harsh, could sting
 like acid. A little of that now splashed on me. It was unexpected, but on the
 whole I was glad to hear it. All the fight hadn't gone out of him after all, it
 seemed.
   'No,' he said, 'I'm taking Melinda out square-dancing. We're going to do-si
do, allemand left, and then tell the fiddler he's a rooster-dick motherfucker.'
   I clapped my hand over my mouth to keep from laughing. Mercifully, it
 was an urge that passed in a hurry.
   'I'm sorry,' he said. 'I haven't been getting much sleep lately. It's made me
 grouchy. Of course we're going to be home. Why do you ask?'
   'It doesn't matter, I guess,' I said.
   'You weren't thinking of coming by, were you?
   Because if you were on last night, you'll be on tonight. Unless you've
 switched with somebody?'
   'No, I haven't switched,' I said. 'I'm on tonight.'
   'It wouldn't be a good idea, anyway. Not the way she is right now.'
   'Maybe not. Thanks for your news.'
   'You're welcome. Pray for my Melinda, Paul.'
   I said I would, thinking that I might do quite a bit more than pray. God
 helps those who help themselves, as they say in The Church of Praise Jesus,
 The Lord Is Mighty. I hung up and looked at Janice.
   'How's Melly?' she asked.
   'Not good.' I told her what Hal had told me, including the part about the
 swearing, although I left out cocksucker and rooster-dick motherfucker. I
 finished with Hal's word, sinking, and Jan nodded sadly. Then she took a
 closer look at me.
   'What are you thinking about? You're thinking about something, probably
 no good. It's in your face.'
   Lying was out of the question; it wasn't the way we were with each other. I
 just told her it was best she not know, at least for the time being.
'Is it... could it get you in trouble?' She didn't sound particularly alarmed at
 the idea—more interested than anything—which is one of the things I have
 always loved about her.
 'Maybe,' I said.
 'Is it a good thing?'
 'Maybe,' I repeated. I was standing there, still turning the phone's crank idly
 with one finger, while I held down the connecting points with a finger of my
 other hand.
 'Would you like me to leave you alone while you use the telephone?' she
 asked. 'Be a good little woman and butt out? Do some dishes? Knit some
 booties?'
 I nodded. 'That's not the way I'd put it, but—'
 'Are we having extras for lunch, Paul?'
 'I hope so,' I said.
 9 
I got Brutal and Dean right away, because both of them were on the
 exchange. Harry wasn't, not then, at least, but I had the number of his closest
 neighbor who was. Harry called me back about twenty minutes later, highly
 embarrassed at having to reverse the charges and sputtering promises to 'pay
 his share' when our next bill came. I told him we'd count those chickens when
 they hatched; in the meantime, could he come over to my place for lunch?
 Brutal and Dean would be here, and Janice had promised to put out some of
 her famous slaw... not to mention her even more famous apple pie.
 'Lunch just for the hell of it?' Harry sounded skeptical.
 I admitted I had something I wanted to talk to them about, but it was best
 not gone into, even lightly, over the phone. Harry agreed to come. I dropped
 the receiver onto the prongs, went to the window, and looked out
 thoughtfully. Although we'd had the late shift, I hadn't wakened either Brutal
 or Dean, and Harry hadn't sounded like a fellow freshly turned out of
 dreamland, either. It seemed that I wasn't the only one having problems with
 what had happened last night, and considering the craziness I had in mind,
 that was probably good.
 Brutal, who lived closest to me, arrived at quarter past eleven. Dean
 showed up fifteen minutes later, and Harry—already dressed for work—
about fifteen minutes after Dean. Janice served us cold beef sandwiches,
 slaw, and iced tea in the kitchen. Only a day before, we would have had it out
 on the side porch and been glad of a breeze, but the temperature had dropped
 a good fifteen degrees since the thunderstorm, and a keen-edged wind was
 snuffling down from the ridges.
 'You're welcome to sit down with us,' I told my wife.
 She shook her head. 'I don't think I want to know what you're up to—I'll
 worry less if I'm in the dark. I'll have a bite in the parlor. I'm visiting with
 Miss Jane Austen this week, and she's very good company.'
 'Who's Jane Austen?' Harry asked when she had left. 'Your side or Janices's,
 Paul? A cousin? Is she pretty?'
 'She's a writer, you nit,' Brutal told him. 'Been dead practically since Betsy
 Ross basted the stars on the first flag.'
 'Oh.' Harry looked embarrassed. 'I'm not much of a reader. Radio manuals,
 mostly.'
 'What's on your mind, Paul?' Dean asked.
 'John Coffey and Mr. Jingles, to start with.' They looked surprised, which I
 had expected—they'd been thinking I wanted to discuss either Delacroix or
 Percy. Maybe both. I looked at Dean and Harry 'The thing with Mr. Jingles—
 what Coffey did—happened pretty fast. I don't know if you got there in time
 to see how broken up the mouse was or not.'
 Dean shook his head. 'I saw the blood on the floor, though.'
 I turned to Brutal.
 'That son of a bitch Percy crushed it,' he said simply. 'It should have died,
 but it didn't. Coffey did something to it. Healed it somehow. I know how that
 sounds, but I saw it with my own eyes.'
 I said: 'He healed me, as well, and I didn't just see it, I felt it.' I told them
 about my urinary infection—how it had come back, how bad it had been (I
 pointed through the window at the woodpile I'd had to hold onto the morning
 the pain drove me to my knees), and how it had gone away completely after
 Coffey touched me. And stayed away.
 It didn't take long to tell. When I was done, they sat and thought about it
 awhile, chewing on their sandwiches as they did. Then Dean said, 'Black
 things came out of his mouth. Like bugs.'
 'That's right,' Harry agreed. 'They were black to start with, anyway. Then
 they turned white and disappeared.' He looked around, considering. 'It's like I
 damned near forgot the whole thing until you brought it up, Paul. Ain't that
funny?'
 'Nothing funny or strange about it,' Brutal said. 'I think that's what people
 most always do with the stuff they can't make out—just forget it. Doesn't do a
 person much good to remember stuff that doesn't make any sense. What
 about it, Paul? Were there bugs when he fixed you?'
 'Yes. I think they're the sickness... the pain... the hurt. He takes it in, then
 lets it out into the open air again.'
 'Where it dies,' Harry said.
 I shrugged. I didn't know if it died or not, wasn't sure it even mattered.
 'Did he suck it out of you?' Brutal asked. 'He looked like he was sucking it
 right out of the mouse. The hurt. The... you know. The death.'
 'No,' I said. 'He just touched me. And I felt it. A kind of jolt, like electricity
 only not painful. But I wasn't dying, only hurting.'
 Brutal nodded. 'The touch and the breath. Just like you hear those
 backwoods gospel-shouters going on about.'
 'Praise Jesus, the Lord is mighty,' I said.
 'I dunno if Jesus comes into it,' Brutal said, 'but it seems to me like John
 Coffey is one mighty man.'
 'All right,' Dean said. 'If you say all this happened, I guess I believe it. God
 works in mysterious ways His wonders to perform. But what's it got to do
 with us?'
 Well, that was the big question, wasn't it? I took in a deep breath and told
 them what I wanted to do. They listened, dumbfounded. Even Brutal, who
 liked to read those magazines with the stories about little green men from
 space, looked dumbfounded. There was a longer silence when I finished this
 time, and no one chewing any sandwiches.
 At last, in a gentle and reasonable voice, Brutus Howell said: 'We'd lose our
 jobs if we were caught, Paul, and we'd be very goddam lucky if that was all
 that happened. We'd probably end up over in A Block as guests of the state,
 making wallets and showering in pairs.'
 'Yes,' I said. 'That could happen.'
 'I can understand how you feel, a little,' he went on. 'You know Moores
 better than us—he's your friend as well as the big boss—and I know you
 think a lot of his wife... '
 'She's the sweetest woman you could ever hope to meet,' I said, 'and she
 means the world to him.'
 'But we don't know her the way you and Janice do,' Brutal said. 'Do we,
Paul?'
 'You'd like her if you did,' I said. 'At least, you'd like her if you'd met her
 before this thing got its claws into her. She does a lot of community things,
 she's a good friend, and she's religious. More than that, she's funny. Used to
 be, anyway. She could tell you things that'd make you laugh until the tears
 rolled down your cheeks. But none of those things are the reason I want to
 help save her, if she can be saved. What's happening to her is an offense,
 goddammit, an offense. To the eyes and the ears and the heart.'
 'Very noble, but I doubt like hell if that's what put this bee in your bonnet,'
 Brutal said. 'I think it's what happened to Del. You want to balance it off
 somehow.'
 And he was right. Of course he was. I knew Melinda Moores better than the
 others did, but maybe not, in the end, well enough to ask them to risk their
 jobs for her... and possibly their freedom, as well. Or my own job and
 freedom, for that matter. I had two children, and the last thing on God's earth
 that I wanted my wife to have to do was to write them the news that their
 father was going on trial for... well, what would it be? I didn't know for sure.
 Aiding and abetting an escape attempt seemed the most likely.
 But the death of Eduard Delacroix had been the ugliest, foulest thing I had
 ever seen in my life—not just my working life but my whole, entire life—and
 I had been a party to it. We had all been a party to it, because we had allowed
 Percy Wetmore to stay even after we knew he was horribly unfit to work in a
 place like E Block. We had played the game. Even Warden Moores had been
 a party to it. 
s on the team or
 not," he had said, and maybe that was well enough, considering what the little
 Frenchman had done, but in the end Percy had done a lot more than cook
 Del
s eyeballs right out of their sockets and
 set his damned face on fire. And why? Because Del was a murderer half a
 dozen times over? No. Because Percy had wet his pants and the little Cajun
 had had the temerity to laugh at him. We
In my church they call it atonement instead of balancing,
but I
 guess it comes to the same thing.
Do you really think Coffey could save her?
Just... what?... suck that brain tumor out of her head? Like it was a... a
 peach-pit?
I think he could. It

 
 Brutal said.
 
 Harry mused. 

 
 I said.
 
t even know her!
Because it
s what God made him for.
What about Percy? You think he
 he
 asked, and so I told them what I had in mind for Percy By the time I finished,
 Harry and Dean were looking at me in amazement, and a reluctant grin of
 admiration had dawned on Brutal
Pretty audacious, Brother Paul!
Fair takes my breath away!
But wouldn
s knees!
I mean, voh-doh-dee-oh-doh and
 twenty-three-skidoo!
Yeah, but what about after?
What then?
They say dead men tell no tales,
I think he
 I said.
 
 Dean looked skeptical. He took off his glasses and began to polish
 them. 

 
t know what really happened—he
ll be
 afraid to say anything. That
m really counting on. We tell him that if
 he starts writing letters and making phone calls, we start writing letters and
 making phone calls.
About the execution,
And about the way he froze when Wharton attacked Dean,
I
 think people finding out about that is what Percy Wetmore

He nodded slowly and thoughtfully. 
t it
 make more sense to bring Mrs. Moores to Coffey than Coffey to Mrs.
 Moores? We could take care of Percy pretty much the way you laid it out,
 then bring her in through the tunnel instead of taking Coffey out that way.
Never happen. Not in a million years.
Because of Warden Moores?
Mat
s so hardheaded he makes old Doubting Thomas look like
 Joan of Arc. If we bring Coffey to his house, I think we can surprise him into
 at least letting Coffey make the try. Otherwise... 
What were you thinking about using for a vehicle?
My first thought was the stagecoach,
but we

 
 Dean said, popping his specs back onto his nose. 
t get John Coffey into your car if you stripped him naked, covered him
 with lard, and used a shoehorn. You
ve
 forgotten how big he is.
t going to be as
 simple as I had hoped.
 Harry Terwilliger picked up the remains of his second sandwich, looked at
 it for a second, then put it down again. 
 he said, 
t be nobody much on the roads at that hour. We
t we?
Yes,
You guys
 Dean said. 
s been pretty
 quiet ever since he came on the block, doesn
s a murderer. Also, he
s truck, the only way
 we could stop him would be to shoot him dead. And a guy like that would
 take a lot of killing, even with a.45. Suppose we weren
d hate losing my job, and I
t think I


t happen,
How in God

 I didn
t know just how to begin. I had known this would
 come up, of course I did, but I still didn
You don
 He looked incredulous. 

 
m positive he
 I said.
 

 
 I said. 
 I leaned forward
 over the table and began talking.
Part Five. 
Night Journey 
1 
Mr. H. G. Wells once wrote a story about a man who invented a time
 machine, and I have discovered that, in the writing of these memoirs, I have
 created my own time machine. Unlike Wells
s eerily efficient, for all
 that. Still, this time machine reminds me of the old Ford I had in those days:
 you could be sure that it would start eventually, but you never knew if a turn
 of the key would be enough to fire the motor, or if you were going to have to
 get out and crank until your arm practically fell off.
 I
d gotten to Delacroix
t want to have to relive that. It was a bad
 death, a terrible death, and it happened the way it did because of Percy
 Wetmore, a young man who loved to comb his hair but couldn
t matter to an engine whether you use the key or have to crank; once
 you get it going, it
s how it
 worked for me yesterday. At first the words came in little bursts of phrasing,
 then in whole sentences, then in a torrent. Writing is a special and rather
 terrifying form of remembrance, I
ve become a
 very old man (a thing that happened behind my own back, I sometimes feel),
 but I don
 home gone, replaced by the storage
 room at the end of the Green Mile where so many of my problem children
 took their last sit-me-downs and the bottom of the stairs which led to the
 tunnel under the road. That was where Dean and Harry and Brutal and I
 confronted Percy Wetmore over Eduard Delacroix
s cooked flesh. The
 sound of the power mower on the lawn down below had been replaced by the
 hollow plink of dripping water as it seeped slowly through the tunnel
clock or so, and when I finally put my
 pencil down, my hand was aching. I walked slowly down to the end of the
 second-floor corridor. There
s shift was over and he
What you got in that bag, Mr. Edgecombe?
It
 I said. 
ve discovered the Fountain of Youth down
 there in the woods. I pop down every afternoon about this time and draw a
 little. I drink it at bedtime. Good stuff, I can tell you.
May be keepin you young,
but it ain

 We all had a laugh at that, and I went out. I found myself looking around
 for Dolan even though his car was gone, called myself a chump for letting
 him get so far under my skin, and crossed the croquet course. Beyond it is a
 scraggy little putting green that looks ever so much nicer in the Georgia Pines
 brochures, and beyond that is a path that winds into the little copse of woods
 east of the nursing home. There are a couple of old sheds along this path,
neither of them used for anything these days. At the second, which stands
 close to the high stone wall between the Georgia Pines grounds and Georgia
 Highway 47, I went in and stayed for a little while.
 I ate a good dinner that night, watched a little TV, and went to bed early.
 On many nights I
m not as young as I used to be, you know.
 When I woke and saw that the patch of sun which usually lies on the floor
 at six in the morning had made it all the way up to the foot of my bed, I hit
 the deck in a hurry, so alarmed I hardly noticed the arthritic flare of pain in
 my hips and knees and ankles. I dressed as fast as I could, then hurried down
 the hall to the window that overlooks the employees
s as much as half an hour late—
 No such luck. The car was there, gleaming rustily in the morning sun.
 Because Mr. Brad Dolan has something to arrive on time for these days,
 doesn
t.
 

 I turned around so fast I almost fell down. It was my friend Elaine
 Connelly. Her eyes widened and she put out her hands, as if to catch me.
 Lucky for her I caught my balance; Elaine
d fallen into her
 arms. Romance doesn
I
 she said. 
t mean to startle you.
That
 I said, and gave her a feeble smile. 
s a better wake-up
 than a faceful of cold water. I should hire you to do it every morning.
You were looking for his car, weren
s car.
I wish I could be sure
 he
d like to slip out for a little while, but I don

   She smiled—a ghost of the teasing imp
Nosy bastard, isn

   

   
s not in the west wing, either. I
s in the
 kitchen.
Can you put your morning walk off?
I could, I suppose, but... 
You shouldn

   
t.
ll ask me where I go, what I have to do down in those
 woods that
t. Instead she gave me that imp
Do you know
 Mr. Howland?
Sure,
t see him much; he was in the west wing,
 which at Georgia Pines was almost like a neighboring country. 

   
s special about him?
Mr. Howland,
is one of only
 five residents left at Georgia Pines who have permission to smoke. That

   A grandfather clause, I thought. And what place was more fitted for one
 than an old-age home?
   She reached into the pocket of her blue-and-white-striped dress and pulled
 two items partway out: a cigarette and a book of matches. 
 she sang in a lilting, funny voice. 
s going to wet the
 bed.
Elaine, what—
Walk an old girl downstairs,
Wait at the foot. I
t you?
Yes,
The one just outside the spa. But why?
I haven
 she said, 
t know how many puffs it

 I looked at her with dawning admiration, thinking how much she reminded
 me of my wife—Jan might have done exactly the same thing. Elaine looked
 back at me, smiling her saucy imp
I love you, Ellie,
Oooh, such big talk,
What about Chuck Howland?
Is he going to get in trouble?
No, because he
m going to make myself scarce as soon as
 the smoke detector turns on the west-wing fire alarm.
Don
d never forgive myself if
 —
Oh, stop your fussing,
ll tell you something, my friend: weird love
s one of her vanities),
 and waited. Five minutes went by, then ten, and just as I was deciding she
 had either lost her courage or discovered that the battery of the smoke
 detector in the toilet was dead, the fire alarm went off in the west wing with a
 loud, buzzing burr.
 I started toward the kitchen at once, but slowly—there was no reason to
 hurry until I was sure Dolan was out of my way. A gaggle of old folks, most
 still in their robes, came out of the TV room (here it
s grotesque) to see what was going on. Chuck Howland was
 among them, I was happy to see.
 
 Kent Avery rasped, hanging onto his walker with one hand
 and yanking obsessively at the crotch of his pajama pants with the other.
 

 
 I said.
 Just about then three orderlies went trotting past, all headed for the west
wing, yelling at the folks clustered around the TV-room door to go outside
 and wait for the all-clear. The third in line was Brad Dolan. He didn
Say, Mr. Edgecombe,
I believe Brad Dolan been lookin for
 you. In fact, you just missed him.
d probably see Mr.
 Dolan later. Then I asked if there was any leftover toast lying around from
 breakfast.
 
 Norton said, 
s stone-cold dead in the market. You runnin late
 this morning.
I am,
but I

 
 George said, reaching for
 the bread.
 
 I said, and when he handed me a couple of slices
 (looking mystified—actually both of them looked mystified), I hurried out
 the door, feeling like the boy I once was, skipping school to go fishing with a
 jelly fold-over wrapped in waxed paper slipped into the front of my shirt.
 Outside the kitchen door I took a quick, reflexive look around for Dolan,
 saw nothing to alarm me, and hurried across the croquet course and putting
 green, gnawing on one of my pieces of toast as I went. I slowed a little as I
 entered the shelter of the woods, and as I walked down the path, I found my
 mind turning to the day after Eduard Delacroix
s brain tumor had caused her to lapse into bouts of cursing and foul
 language... what my wife had later labelled (rather tentatively; she wasn
s Syndrome. The quavering in his
 voice, coupled with the memory of how John Coffey had healed both my
 urinary infection and the broken back of Delacroix
s
 hands, and my shoe.
So I had called the men I worked with, the men I had trusted my life to over
 the years—Dean Stanton, Harry Terwilliger, Brutus Howell. They came to
 lunch at my house on the day after Delacroix
t outright laugh. It was Dean Stanton who raised the most troubling
 question: What if John Coffey escaped while we had him out on his field
trip?
 
 Dean asked. 
d hate losing my job, and
 I
t think I

 There was silence, then, all of them looking at me, waiting to see how I
That won

 
s name can you be so sure?
t answer. I didn
t know how to start telling them what
 was in my head and heart. Brutal helped.
 
t think he did it, do you, Paul?
You think
 that big lug is innocent.
I
s innocent,
How can you be?
There are two things,
One of them is my shoe.
Your shoe?
What has your shoe got to do with whether
 or not John Coffey killed those two little girls?
I took off one of my shoes and gave it to him last night,
After the
 execution, this was, when things had settled back down a little. I pushed it
through the bars, and he picked it up in those big hands of his. I told him to
 tie it. I had to make sure, you see, because all our problem children normally
 wear is slippers—a man who really wants to commit suicide can do it with
 shoelaces, if he
s something all of us know.
He put it on his lap and got the ends of the laces crossed over all right, but
 then he was stuck. He said he was pretty sure someone had showed him how
 to do it when he was a lad—maybe his father or maybe one of the boyfriends
 his mother had after the father was gone—but he

 
m with Brutal—I still don
 Dean said.
 So I went over the story of the abduction and murder again—what I
The Dettericks
t much of a biter, but it was a world-class barker,
The man who took the girls kept it quiet by feeding it sausages. He
 crept a little closer every time he gave it one, I imagine, and while the mutt
 was eating the last one, he reached out, grabbed it by the head, and twisted.
 Broke its neck.
 
s what it turned out to be—a couple of
 sandwiches and a pickle, wrapped up in newspaper and tied with butcher
t remember who gave it to him, only that it was a
 woman wearing an apron.
Sandwiches and a pickle but no sausages,
No sausages,
Course not,
He fed those to the dog.
Well, that
 I agreed, 
d he tie the newspaper
 back up again with that butcher
t know when he even would
 have had the chance, but leave that out of it, for the time being. This man
 can

 There was a long moment of thunderstruck silence, broken at last by
 Brutus. 
 he said in a low voice. 


 I said, and found myself again thinking of
 Hammersmith, the reporter—Hammersmith who had been to college in
 Bowling Green, Hammersmith who liked to think of himself as enlightened,
 Hammersmith who had told me that mongrel dogs and Negroes were about
 the same, that either might take a chomp out of you suddenly, and for no
 reason. Except he kept calling them your Negroes, as if they were still
 property... but not his property. No, not his. Never his. And at that time, the
 South was full of Hammersmiths. Nobody was really equipped to think of it,
 Coffey

 
 Harry said. 
re sittin here with Mr.
 Sherlock Holmes.
Oh, put a cork in it,
I wouldn
t
 put together what he told Deputy McGee that day with what he said after he
 cured my infection, and what he said after he healed the mouse.
What?
When I went into his cell, it was like I was hypnotized. I didn
d tried.
I don
 Harry said, and shifted uneasily in his seat.
 
Just to help.
I helped it,
I helped it, didn't I?

 Brutal was nodding. 
You helped it,
I helped Del's mouse.
t it?.
Yeah, I guess so. I remembered what he said to McGee when McGee asked
 him what had happened. It was in every story about the murders, just about.
 "I couldn
 A man saying a
 thing like that with two little dead girls in his arms, them white and blonde,
 him as big as a house, no wonder they got it wrong. They heard what he was
 saying in a way that would agree with what they were seeing, and what they
 were seeing was black. They thought he was confessing, that he was saying
 he'd had a compulsion to take those girls, rape them, and kill them. That he'd
 come to his senses and tried to stop.
 'But by then it was too late,' Brutal murmured
 'Yes. Except what he was really trying to tell them was that he'd found
 them, tried to heal them—to bring them back—and had no success. They
 were too far gone in death.'
'Paul, do you believe that?' Dean asked. 'Do you really, honest-to-God
 believe that?'
 I examined my heart as well as I could one final time, then nodded my
 head. Not only did I know it now, there was an intuitive part of me that had
 known something wasn't right with John Coffey's situation from the very
 beginning, when Percy had come onto the block hauling on Coffey's arm and
 blaring 
 at the top of his lungs. I had shaken hands with
 him, hadn't I? I had never shaken the hand of a man coming on the Green
 Mile before, but I had shaken Coffey's.
 'Jesus,' Dean said. 'Good Jesus Christ.'
 'Your shoe's one thing,' Harry said. 'What's the other?'
 'Not long before the posse found Coffey and the girls, the men came out of
 the woods near the south bank of the Trapingus River. They found a patch of
 flattened-down grass there, a lot of blood, and the rest of Cora Detterick's
 nightie. The dogs got confused for a bit. Most wanted to go southeast,
 downstream along the bank. But two of them—the coon-dogs—wanted to go
 upstream. 'Bobo Marchant was running the dogs, and when he save the
 coonies a sniff of the nightgown, they turned with the others.'
 'The coonies got mixed up, didn't they?' Brutal asked. A strange, sickened
 little smile was playing around the corners of his mouth. 'They ain't built to
 be trackers, strictly speaking, and they got mixed up on what their job was.'
 'Yes.'
 'I don't get it,' Dean said.
 'The coonies forgot whatever it was Bobo ran under their noses to get them
 started,' Brutal said. 'By the time they came out on the riverbank, the coonies
 were tracking the killer, not the girls. That wasn't a problem as long as the
 killer and the girls were together, but... '
 The light was dawning in Dean's eyes. Harry had already gotten it.
 'When you think about it,' I said, 'you wonder how anybody, even a jury
 wanting to pin the crime on a wandering black fellow, could have believed
 John Coffey was their man for even a minute. Just the idea of keeping the
 dog quiet with food until he could snap its neck would have been beyond
 Coffey.
 'He was never any closer to the Detterick farm than the south bank of the
 Trapingus, that's what I think. Six or more miles away. He was just mooning
 along, maybe meaning to go down to the railroad tracks and catch a freight to
 somewhere else—when they come off the trestle, they're going slow enough
to hop—when he heard a commotion to the north.'
 'The killer?' Brutal asked.
 'The killer. He might have raped them already, or maybe the rape was what
 Coffey heard. In any case, that bloody patch in the grass was where the killer
 finished the business; dashed their heads together, dropped them, and then
 hightailed it.'
 'Hightailed it northwest,' Brutal said. 'The direction the coon-dogs wanted
 to go.'
 'Right. John Coffey comes through a stand of alders that grows a little way
 southeast of the spot where the girls were left, probably curious about all the
 noise, and he finds their bodies. One of them might still have been alive; I
 suppose it's possible both of them were, although not for much longer. John
 Coffey wouldn't have known if they were dead, that's for sure. All he knows
 is that he's got a healing power in his hands, and he tried to use it on Cora and
 Kathe Detterick. When it didn't work, he broke down, crying and hysterical.
 Which is how they found him.'
 'Why didn't he stay there, where he found them?' Brutal asked. 'Why take
 them south along the riverbank? Any idea?'
 'I bet he did stay put, at first,' I said. 'At the trial, they kept talking about a
 big trampled area, all the grass squashed flat. And John Coffey's a big man.'
 'John Coffey's a fucking giant,' Harry said, pitching his voice very low so
 my wife wouldn't hear him cuss if she happened to be listening.
 'Maybe he panicked when he saw that what he was doing wasn't working.
 Or maybe he got the idea that the killer was still there, in the woods
 upstream, watching him. Coffey's big, you know, but not real brave. Harry,
 remember him asking if we left a light on in the block after bedtime?'
 'Yeah. I remember thinking how funny that was, what with the size of him.'
 Harry looked shaken and thoughtful.
 'Well, if he didn't kill the little girls, who did?' Dean asked.
 I shook my head. 'Someone else. Someone white would be my best guess.
 The prosecutor made a big deal about how it would have taken a strong man
 to kill a dog as big as the one the Dettericks kept, but—'
 'That's crap,' Brutus rumbled. 'A strong twelve year-old girl could break a
 big dog's neck, if she took the dog by surprise and knew where to grab. If
 Coffey didn't do it, it could have been damned near anyone... any man, that
 is. We'll probably never know.'
 I said, 'Unless he does it again.'
'We wouldn't know even then, if he did it down Texas or over in
 California,' Harry said.
 Brutal leaned back, screwed his fists into his eyes like a tired child, then
 dropped them into his lap again. 'This is a nightmare,' he said. 'We've got a
 man who may be innocent—who probably is innocent—and he's going to
 walk the Green Mile just as sure as God made tall trees and little fishes. What
 are we supposed to do about it? If we start in with that healing-fingers shit,
 everyone is going to laugh their asses off, and he'll end up in the Fry-O-Lator
 just the same.'
 'Let's worry about that later,' I said, because I didn't have the slightest idea
 how to answer him. 'The question right now is what we do—or don't do—
 about Melly. I'd say step back and take a few days to think it over, but I
 believe every day we wait raises the chances that he won't be able to help
 her.'
 'Remember him holding his hands out for the mouse?' Brutal asked. 'Give
 im to me while there's still time,' he said. While there's still time.'
 'I remember.'
 Brutal considered, then nodded. 'I'm in. I feel bad about Del, too, but
 mostly I think I just want to see what happens when he touches her. Probably
 nothing will, but maybe... '
 'I doubt like hell we even get the big dummy off the block,' Harry said, then
 sighed and nodded. 'But who gives a shit? Count me in.'
 'Me, too,' Dean said. 'Who stays on the block, Paul? Do we draw straws for
 it?'
 'No, sir,' I said. 'No straws. You stay.'
 'Just like that? The hell you say!' Dean replied, hurt and angry. He whipped
 off his spectacles and began to polish them furiously on his shirt. 'What kind
 of a bum deal is that?'
 'The kind you get if you're young enough to have kids still in school,' Brutal
 said. 'Harry and me's bachelors. Paul's married, but his kids are grown and off
 on their own, at least. This is a mucho crazy stunt we're planning here; I think
 we're almost sure to get caught.' He gazed at me soberly. 'One thing you
 didn't mention, Paul, is that if we do manage to get him out of the slam and
 then Coffey's healing fingers don't work, Hal Moores is apt to turn us in
 himself.' He gave me a chance to reply to this, maybe to rebut it, but I
 couldn't and so I kept my mouth shut. Brutal turned back to Dean and went
 on. 'Don't get me wrong, you're apt to lose your job, too, but at least you'd
have a chance to get clear of prison if the heat really came down. Percy's
 going to think it was a prank; if you're on the duty desk, you can say you
 thought the same thing and we never told you any different.'
 'I still don't like it,' Dean said, but it was clear he'd go along with it, like it
 or not. The thought of his kiddies had convinced him. 'And it's to be tonight?
 You're sure?'
 'If we're going to do it, it had better be tonight,' Harry said. 'If I get a chance
 to think about it, I'll most likely lose my nerve.'
 'Let me be the one to go by the infirmary,' Dean said. 'I can do that much at
 least, can't I?'
 'As long as you can do what needs doing without getting caught,' Brutal
 said.
 Dean looked offended, and I clapped him on the shoulder. 'As soon after
 you clock in as you can... all right?'
 'You bet.'
 My wife popped her head through the door as if I'd given her a cue to do so.
 'Who's for more iced tea?' she asked brightly. 'What about you, Brutus?'
 'No, thanks,' he said. 'What I'd like is a good hard knock of whiskey, but
 under the circumstances, that might not be a good idea.'
 Janice looked at me; smiling mouth, worried eyes. 'What are you getting
 these boys into, Paul?' But before I could even think of framing a reply, she
 raised her hand and said, 'Never mind, I don't want to know.'
 3 
Later, long after the others were gone and while I was dressing for work,
 she took me by the arm, swung me around, and looked into my eyes with
 fierce intensity.
 'Melinda?' she asked.
 I nodded.
 'Can you do something for her, Paul? Really do something for her, or is it
 all wishful dreaming brought on by what you saw last night?'
 I thought of Coffey's eyes, of Coffey's hands, and of the hypnotized way I'd
 gone to him when he'd wanted me. I thought of him holding out his hands for
 Mr. Jingles's broken, dying body. While there's still time, he had said. And
 the black swirling things that turned white and disappeared.
'I think we might be the only chance she has left,' I said at last.
 'Then take it,' she said, buttoning the front of my new fall coat. It had been
 in the closet since my birthday at the beginning of September, but this was
 only the third or fourth time I'd actually worn it. 'Take it.'
 And she practically pushed me out the door.
 4
 I clocked in that night—in many ways the strangest night of my entire life
 —at twenty past six. I thought I could still smell the faint, lingering odor of
 burned flesh on the air. It had to be an illusion—the doors to the outside, both
 on the block and in the storage room, had been open most of the day, and the
 previous two shifts had spent hours scrubbing in there—but that didn't change
 what my nose was telling me, and I didn't think I could have eaten any dinner
 even if I hadn't been scared almost to death about the evening which lay
 ahead.
 Brutal came on the block at quarter to seven, Dean at ten 'til. I asked Dean
 if he would go over to the infirmary and see if they had a heating pad for my
 back, which I seemed to have strained that early morning, helping to carry
 Delacroix's body down into the tunnel. Dean said he'd be happy to. I believe
 he wanted to tip me a wink, but restrained himself.
 Harry clocked on at three minutes to seven.
 'The truck?' I asked.
 'Where we talked about.'
 So far, so good. There followed a little passage of time when we stood by
 the duty desk, drinking coffee and studiously not mentioning what we were
 all thinking and hoping: that Percy was late, that maybe Percy wasn't going to
 show up at all. Considering the hostile reviews he'd gotten on the way he'd
 handled the electrocution, that seemed at least possible.
 But Percy apparently subscribed to that old axiom about how you should
 get right back on the horse that had thrown you, because here he came
 through the door at six minutes past seven, resplendent in his blue uniform,
 with his sidearm on one hip and his hickory stick in its ridiculous custom
made holster on the other. He punched his time-card, then looked around at
us warily (except for Dean, who hadn't come back from the infirmary yet).
 'My starter busted,' he said. 'I had to crank.'
 'Aw,' Harry said, 'po' baby.'
 'Should have stayed home and got the cussed thing fixed,' Brutal said
 blandly. 'We wouldn't want you straining your arm none, would we, boys?'
 'Yeah, you'd like that, wouldn't you?' Percy sneered, but I thought he
 seemed reassured by the relative mildness of Brutal's response. That was
 good. For the next few hours we'd have to walk a line with him—not too
 hostile, but not too friendly, either. After last night, he'd find anything even
 approaching warmth suspect. We weren't going to get him with his guard
 down, we all knew that, but I thought we could catch him with it a long piece
 from all the way up if we played things just right. It was important that we
 move fast, but it was also important—to me, at least—that nobody be hurt.
 Not even Percy Wetmore.
 Dean came back and gave me a little nod.
 'Percy,' I said, 'I want you to go on in the storeroom and mop down the
 floor. Stairs to the tunnel, too. Then you can write your report on last night.'
 'That should be creative,' Brutal remarked, hooking his thumbs into his belt
 and looking up at the ceiling.
 'You guys are funnier'n a fuck in church,' Percy said, but beyond that he
 didn't protest. Didn't even point out the obvious, which was that the floor in
 there had already been washed at least twice that day. My guess is that he
 was glad for the chance to be away from us.
 I went over the previous shift report, saw nothing that concerned me, and
 then took a walk down to Wharton's cell. He was sitting there on his bunk
 with his knees drawn up and his arms clasped around his shins, looking at me
 with a bright, hostile smile.
 'Well, if it ain't the big boss,' he said. 'Big as life and twice as ugly. You
 look happier'n a pig kneedeep in shit, Boss Edgecombe. Wife give your
 pecker a pull before you left home, did she?'
 'How you doing, Kid?' I asked evenly, and at that he brightened for real. He
 let go of his legs, stood up, and stretched. His smile broadened, and some of
 the hostility went out of it.
 'Well, damn!' he said. 'You got my name right for once! What's the matter
 with you, Boss Edgecombe? You sick or sumpin?'
 No, not sick. I'd been sick, but John Coffey had taken care of that. His
 hands no longer knew the trick of tying a shoe, if they ever had, but they
knew other tricks. Yes indeed they did.
 'My friend,' I told him, 'if you want to be a Billy the Kid instead of a Wild
 Bill, it's all the same to me.'
 He puffed visibly, like one of those loathsome fish that live in South
 American rivers and can sting you almost to death with the spines along their
 backs and sides. I dealt with a lot of dangerous men during my time on the
 Mile, but few if any so repellent as William Wharton, who considered
 himself a great outlaw, but whose jailhouse behavior rarely rose above
 pissing or spitting through the bars of his cell. So far we hadn't given him the
 awed respect he felt was his by right, but on that particular night I wanted
 him tractable. If that meant lathering on the softsoap, I would gladly lather it
 on.
 'I got a lot in common with the Kid, and you just better believe it,' Wharton
 said. 'I didn't get here for stealing candy out of a dimestore.' As proud as a
 man who's been conscripted into the Heroes' Brigade of the French Foreign
 Legion instead of one whose ass has been slammed into a cell seventy long
 steps from the electric chair. 'Where's my supper?'
 'Come on, Kid, report says you had it at five-fifty. Meatloaf with gravy,
 mashed, peas. You don't con me that easy.'
 He laughed expansively and sat down on his bunk again. 'Put on the radio,
 then.' He said radio in the way people did back then when they were joking,
 so it rhymed with the fifties slang word 'Daddy-O.' It's funny how much a
 person can remember about times when his nerves were tuned so tight they
 almost sang.
 'Maybe later, big boy,' I said. I stepped away from his cell and looked down
 the corridor. Brutal had strolled down to the far end, where he checked to
 make sure the restraint-room door was on the single lock instead of the
 double. I knew it was, because I'd already checked it myself. Later on, we'd
 want to be able to open that door as quick as we could. There would be no
 time spent emptying out the attic-type rick-rack that had accumulated in there
 over the years; we'd taken it out, sorted it, and stored it in other places not
 long after Wharton joined our happy band. It had seemed to us the room with
 the soft walls was apt to get a lot of use, at least until 
 strolled
 the Mile.
 John Coffey, who would usually have been lying down at this time, long,
 thick legs dangling and face to the wall, was sitting on the end of his bunk
 with his hands clasped, watching Brutal with an alertness—a thereness—that
wasn't typical of him. He wasn't leaking around the eyes, either.
 Brutal tried the door to the restraint room, then came on back up the Mile.
 Hie glanced at Coffey as he passed Coffey's cell, and Coffey said a curious
 thing: 'Sure. I'd like a ride.' As if responding to something Brutal had said.
 Brutal's eyes met mine. He knows, I could almost hear him saying.
 Somehow he knows.
 I shrugged and spread my hands, as if to say Of course he knows.
 5 
Old Toot-Toot made his last trip of the night down to E Block with his cart
 at about quarter to nine. We bought enough of his crap to make him smile
 with avarice.
 'Say, you boys seen that mouse?' he asked.
 We shook our heads.
 'Maybe Pretty Boy has,' Toot said, and gestured with his head in the
 direction of the storage room, where Percy was either washing the floor,
 writing his report, or picking his ass.
 'What do you care? It's none of your affair, either way,' Brutal said. 'Roll
 wheels, Toot. You're stinkin the place up.'
 Toot smiled his peculiarly unpleasant smile, toothless and sunken, and
 made a business of sniffing the air. 'That ain't me you smell,' he said. 'That be
 Del, sayin so-long.'
 Cackling, he rolled his cart out the door and into the exercise yard. And he
 went on rolling it for another ten years, long after I was gone—hell, long
 after Cold Mountain was gone—selling Moon Pies and pops to the guards
 and prisoners who could afford them. Sometimes even now I hear him in my
 dreams, yelling that he's fryin, he's fryin, he's a done tom turkey.
 The time stretched out after Toot was gone, the clock seeming to crawl. We
 had the radio for an hour and a half, Wharton braying laughter at Fred Allen
 and Allen's Alley, even though I doubt like hell he understood many of the
 jokes. John Coffey sat on the end of his bunk, hands clasped, eyes rarely
 leaving whoever was at the duty desk. I have seen men waiting that way in
 bus stations for their buses to be called.
 Percy came in from the storage room around quarter to eleven and handed
 me a report which had been laboriously written in pencil. Eraser-crumbs lay
over the sheet of paper in gritty smears. He saw me run my thumb over one
 of these, and said hastily: 'That's just a first pass, like. I'm going to copy it
 over. What do you think?'
 What I thought was that it was the most outrageous goddam whitewash I'd
 read in all my born days. What I told him was that it was fine, and he went
 away, satisfied.
 Dean and Harry played cribbage, talking too loud, squabbling over the
 count too often, and looking at the crawling hands of the clock every five
 seconds or so. On at least one of their games that night, they appeared to go
 around the board three times instead of twice. There was so much tension in
 the air that I felt I could almost have carved it like clay, and the only people
 who didn't seem to feel it were Percy and Wild Bill.
 Then it got to be ten of twelve, I could stand it no longer and gave Dean a
 little nod. He went into my office with a bottle of R.C. Cola bought off Toot's
 cart, and came back out a minute or two later. The cola was now in a tin cup,
 which a prisoner can't break and then slash with.
 I took it and glanced around. Harry, Dean, and Brutal were all watching
 me. So, for that matter, was John Coffey. Not Percy, though. Percy had
 returned to the storage room, where he probably felt more at ease on this
 particular night. I gave the tin cup a quick sniff and got no odor except for the
 R.C., which had an odd but pleasant cinnamon smell back in those days.
 I took it down to Wharton's cell. He was lying on his bunk. He wasn't
 masturbating—yet, anyway—but had raised quite a boner inside his shorts
 and was giving it a good healthy twang every now and again, like a dopey
 bass-fiddler hammering an extra-thick E-string.
 'Kid,' I said.
 'Don't bother me,' he said.
 'Okay,' I agreed. 'I brought you a pop for behaving like a human being all
 night—damn near a record for you—but I'll just drink it myself.'
 I made as if to do just that, raising the tin cup (battered all up and down the
 sides from many angry bangings on many sets of cell bars) to my lips.
 Wharton was off the bunk in a flash, which didn't surprise me. It wasn't a
 high-risk bluff; most deep cons—lifers, rapists, and the men slated for Old
 Sparky—are pigs for their sweets, and this one was no exception.
 'Gimme that, you clunk,' Wharton said. He spoke as if he were the foreman
 and I was just another lowly peon. 'Give it to the Kid.'
 I held it just outside the bars, letting him be the one to reach through. Doing
it the other way around is a recipe for disaster, as any long-time prison screw
 will tell you. That was the kind of stuff we thought of without even knowing
 we were thinking of it—the way we knew not to let the cons call us by our
 first names, the way we knew that the sound of rapidly jingling keys meant
 trouble on the block, because it was the sound of a prison guard running and
 prison guards never run unless there's trouble in the valley. Stuff Percy
 Wetmore was never going to get wise to.
 Tonight, however, Wharton had no interest in grabbing or choking. He
 snatched the tin cup, downed the pop in three long swallows, then voiced a
 resounding belch. 'Excellent!' he said.
 I held my hand out. 'Cup.'
 He held it for a moment, teasing with his eyes. 'Suppose I keep it?'
 I shrugged. 'We'll come in and take it back. You'll go down to the little
 room. And you will have drunk your last R.C. Unless they serve it down in
 hell, that is.'
 His smile faded. 'I don't like jokes about hell, screwtip.' He thrust the cup
 out through the bars. 'Here. Take it.'
 I took it. From behind me, Percy said: 'Why in God's name did you want to
 give a lugoon like him a soda-pop?'
 Because it was loaded with enough infirmary dope to put him on his back
 for forty-eight hours, and he never tasted a thing, I thought.
 'With Paul,' Brutal said, 'the quality of mercy is not strained; it droppeth
 like the gentle rain from heaven.'
 'Huh?' Percy asked, frowning.
 'Means he's a soft touch. Always has been, always will be. Want to play a
 game of Crazy Eights, Percy?'
 Percy snorted. 'Except for Go Fish and Old Maid, that's the stupidest card
game ever made.'
 'That's why I thought you might like a few hands,' Brutal said, smiling
 sweetly.
 'Everybody's a wisenheimer,' Percy said, and sulked off into my office. I
 didn't care much for the little rat parking his ass behind my desk, but I kept
 my mouth shut.
 The clock crawled. Twelve-twenty; twelve-thirty. At twelve-forty, John
 Coffey got up off his bunk and stood at his cell door, hands grasping the bars
 loosely. Brutal and I walked down to Wharton's cell and looked in. He lay
 there on his bunk, smiling up at the ceiling. His eyes were open, but they
looked like big glass balls. One hand lay on his chest; the other dangled
 limply off the side of his bunk, knuckles brushing the floor.
 'Gosh,' Brutal said, 'from Billy the Kid to Willie the Weeper in less than an
 hour. I wonder how many of those morphine pills Dean put in that tonic.'
 'Enough,' I said. There was a little tremble in my voice. I don't know if
 Brutal heard it, but I sure did. 'Come on. We're going to do it.'
 'You don't want to wait for beautiful there to pass out?'
 'He's passed out now, Brute. He's just too buzzed to close his eyes.'
 'You're the boss.' He looked around for Harry, but Harry was already there.
 Dean was sitting bolt-upright at the duty desk, shuffling the cards so hard and
 fast it was a wonder they didn't catch fire, throwing a little glance to his left,
 at my office, with every flutter-shuffle. Keeping an eye out for Percy.
 'Is it time?' Harry asked. His long, horsey face was very pale above his blue
 uniform blouse, but he looked determined.
 'Yes,' I said. 'If we're going through with it, it's time.'
 Harry crossed himself and kissed his thumb. Then he went down to the
 restraint room, unlocked it, and came back with the straitjacket. He handed it
 to Brutal. The three of us walked up the Green Mile. Coffey stood at his cell
 door, watching us go, and said not a word. When we reached the duty desk,
 Brutal put the straitjacket behind his back, which was broad enough to
 conceal it easily.
 'Luck,' Dean said. He was as pale as Harry, and looked just as determined.
 Percy was behind my desk, all right, sitting in my chair and frowning over
 the book he'd been toting around with him the last few nights—not Argosy or
 Stag but Caring for the Mental Patient in Institutions. You would have
 thought, from the guilty, worried glance he threw our way when we walked
 in, that it had been The Last Days of Sodom and Gomorrah.
 'What?' he asked, closing the book in a hurry. 'What do you want?'
 'To talk to you, Percy,' I said, 'that's all.'
 But he read a hell of a lot more than a desire to talk on our faces, and was
 up like a shot, hurrying—not quite running, but almost—toward the open
 door to the storeroom. He thought we had come to give him a ragging at the
 very least, and more likely a good roughing up.
 Harry cut around behind him and blocked the doorway, arms folded on his
 chest.
 'Saaay!' Percy turned to me, alarmed but trying not to show it. 'What is
 this?'
'Don't ask, Percy,' I said. I had thought I'd be okay—back to normal,
 anyway—once we actually got rolling on this crazy business, but it wasn't
 working out that way. I couldn't believe what I was doing. It was like a bad
 dream. I kept expecting my wife to shake me awake and tell me I'd been
 moaning in my sleep. 'It'll be easier if you just go along with it.
 'What's Howell got behind his back?' Percy asked in a ragged voice, turning
 to get a better look at Brutal.
 'Nothing,' Brutal said. 'Well... this, I suppose—!'
 He whipped the straitjacket out and shook it beside one hip, like a matador
 shaking his cape to make the bull charge.
 Percy's eyes widened, and he lunged. He meant to run, but Harry grabbed
 his arms and a lunge was all he was able to manage.
 'Let go of me!' Percy shouted, trying to jerk out of Harry's grasp. It wasn't
 going to happen, Harry outweighed him by almost a hundred pounds and had
 the muscles of a man who spent most of his spare time plowing and
 chopping, but Percy gave it a good enough effort to drag Harry halfway
 across the room and to rough up the unpleasant green carpet I kept meaning
 to replace. For a moment I thought he was even going to get one arm free
 panic can be one hell of a motivator.
 'Settle down, Percy,' I said. 'It'll go easier if—'
 'Don't you tell me to settle down, you ignoramus!' Percy yelled, jerking his
 shoulders and trying to free his arms. 'Just get away from me! All of you! I
 know people! Big people! If you don't quit this, you'll have to go all the way
 to South Carolina just to get a meal in a soup kitchen!'
 He gave another forward lunge and ran his upper thighs into my desk. The
 book he'd been reading, Caring for the Mental Patient in Institutions, gave a
 jump, and the smaller, pamphlet-sized book which had been hidden inside it
 popped out. No wonder Percy had looked guilty when we came in. It wasn't
 The Last Days of Sodom and Gomorrah, but it was the one we sometimes
 gave to inmates who were feeling especially horny and who had been well
behaved enough to deserve a treat. I've mentioned it, I think—the little
 cartoon book where Olive Oyl does everybody except Sweet Pea, the kid.
 I found it sad that Percy had been in my office and pursuing such pallid
 porn, and Harry—what I could see of him from over Percy's straining
 shoulder—looked mildly disgusted, but Brutal hooted with laughter, and that
 took the fight out of Percy, at least for the time being.
 'Oh Poicy,' he said. 'What would your mother say? For that matter, what
would the governor say?'
 Percy was blushing a dark red. 'Just shut up. And leave my mother out of
 it.'
 Brutal tossed me the straitjacket and pushed his face up into Percy's. 'Sure
 thing. Just stick out your arms like a good boy.'
 Percy's lips were trembling, and his eyes were too bright. He was, I
 realized, on the verge of tears. 'I won't,' he said in a childish, trembling voice,
 'and you can't make me.' Then he raised his voice and began to scream for
 help. Harry winced and so did I. If we ever came close to just dropping the
 whole thing, it was then. We might have, except for Brutal. He never
 hesitated. He stepped behind Percy so he was shoulder to shoulder with
 Harry, who still had Percy's hands pinned behind him. Brutal reached up and
 took Percy's ears in his hands.
 'Stop that yelling,' Brutal said. 'Unless you want to have a pair of the
 world's most unique teabag caddies.'
 Percy quit yelling for help and just stood there, trembling and looking down
 at the cover of the crude cartoon book, which showed Popeye and Olive
 doing it in a creative way I had heard of but never tried. 'Oooh, Popeye!' read
 the balloon over Olive's head. 'Uck-uck-uck-uck!' read the one over Popeye's.
 He was still smoking his pipe.
 'Hold out your arms,' Brutal said, 'and let's have no more foolishness about
 it. Do it now.'
 'I won't,' Percy said. 'I won't, and you can't make me.'
 'You're dead wrong about that, you know,' Brutal said, then clamped down
 on Percy's ears and twisted them the way you might twist the dials on an
 oven. An oven that wasn't cooking the way you wanted, Percy let out a
 miserable shriek of pain and surprise that I would have given a great deal not
 to have heard. It wasn't just pain and surprise, you see; it was understanding.
 For the first time in his life, Percy was realizing that awful things didn't just
 happen to other people, those not fortunate enough to be related to the
 governor. I wanted to tell Brutal to stop, but of course I couldn't. Things had
 gone much too far for that. All I could do was to remind myself that Percy
 had put Delacroix through God knew what agonies simply because Delacroix
 had laughed at him. The reminder didn't go very far toward soothing the way
 I felt. Perhaps it might have, if I'd been built more along the lines of Percy.
 'Stick those arms out there, honey,' Brutal said, 'or you get another.'
 Harry had already let go of young Mr. Wetmore. Sobbing like a little kid,
the tears which had been standing in his eyes now spilling down his cheeks,
 Percy shot his hands out straight in front of him, like a sleepwalker in a
 movie comedy. I had the sleeves of the straitjacket up his arms in a trice. I
 hardly had it over his shoulders before Brutal had let go of Percy's ears and
 grabbed the straps hanging down from the jacket's cuffs. He yanked Percy's
 hands around to his sides, so that his arms were crossed tightly on his chest.
 Harry, meanwhile, did up the back and snapped the cross-straps. Once Percy
 gave m and stuck out his arms, the whole thing took less than ten seconds.
 'Okay, hon,' Brutal said. 'Forward harch.'
 But he wouldn't. He looked at Brutal, then turned his terrified, streaming
 eyes on me. Nothing about his connections now, or how we'd have to go all
 the way to South Carolina just to get a free meal; he was far past that.
 'Please,' he whispered in a hoarse, wet voice. 'Don't put me in with him,
 Paul.'
 Then I understood why he had panicked, why he'd fought us so hard. He
 thought we were going to put him in with Wild Bill Wharton; that his
 punishment for the dry sponge was to be a dry cornholing from the resident
 psychopath. Instead of feeling sympathy for Percy at this realization, I felt
 disgust and a hardening of my resolve. He was, after all, judging us by the
 way he would have behaved, had our positions been reversed.
 'Not Wharton,' I said. 'The restraint room, Percy. You're going to spend
 three or four hours in there, all by yourself in the dark, thinking about what
 you did to Del. It's probably too late for you to learn any new lessons about
 how people are supposed to behave—Brute thinks so, anyway—but I'm an
 optimist. Now move.'
 He did, muttering under his breath that we'd be sorry for this, plenty sorry,
 just wait and see, but on the whole he seemed relieved and reassured.
 When we herded him out into the hall, Dean gave us a look of such wide
eyed surprise and dewy innocence that I could have laughed, if the business
 hadn't been so serious. I've seen better acting in backwoods Grange revues.
 'Say, don't you think the joke's gone far enough?' Dean asked.
 'You just shut up, if you know what's good for you,' Brutal growled. These
 were lines we'd scripted at lunch, and that was just what they sounded like to
 me, scripted lines, but if Percy was scared enough and confused enough, they
 still might save Dean Stanton's job in a pinch. I myself didn't think so, but
 anything was possible. Any time I've doubted that, then or since, I just think
 about John Coffey, and Delacroix's mouse.
We ran Percy down the Green Mile, him stumbling and gasping for us to
 slow down, he was going to go flat on his face if we didn't slow down.
 Wharton was on his bunk, but we went by too fast for me to see if he was
 awake or asleep. John Coffey was standing at his cell door and watching.
 'You're a bad man and you deserve to go in that dark place,' he said, but I
 don't think Percy heard him.
 Into the restraint room we went, Percy's cheeks red and wet with tears, his
 eyes rolling into their sockets, his pampered locks all flopping down on his
 forehead. Harry pulled Percy's gun with one hand and his treasured hickory,
 head-knocker with the other. 'You'll get em back, don't worry,' Harry said. He
 sounded a trifle embarrassed.
 'I wish I could say the same about your job,' Percy replied. 'All your jobs.
 You can't do this to me! You can't!'
 He was obviously prepared to go on in that vein for quite awhile, but we
 didn't have time to listen to his sermon. In my pocket was a roll of friction
tape, the thirties ancestor of the strapping-tape folks use today. Percy saw it
 and started to back away. Brutal grabbed him from behind and hugged him
 until I had slapped the tape over his mouth, winding the roll around to the
 back of his head, just to be sure. He was going to have a few less swatches of
 hair when the tape came off, and a pair of seriously chapped lips into the
 bargain, but I no longer much cared, I'd had a gutful of Percy Wetmore.
 We backed away from him. He stood in the middle of the room, under the
 caged light, wearing the straitjacket, breathing through flared nostrils, and
 making muffled mmmph! mmmph! sounds from behind the tape. All in all,
 he looked as crazy as any other prisoner we'd ever jugged in that room.
 'The quieter you are, the sooner you get out,' I said. 'Try to remember that,
 Percy.'
 'And if you get lonely, think about Olive Oyl,' Harry advised. 'Uck-uck
uck-uck.'
 Then we went out. I closed the door and Brutal locked it. Dean was
 standing a little way up the Mile, just outside of Coffey's cell. He had already
 put the master key in the top lock. The four of us looked a each other, no one
 saying anything. There was no need to. We had started the machinery; all we
 could do now was hope that it ran the course we had laid out instead of
 jumping the tracks somewhere along the line.
 'You still want to go for that ride, John?' Brutal asked,
 'Yes, sir,' Coffey said. 'I reckon.'
'Good,' Dean said. He turned the first lock, removed the key, and seated it
 in the second.
 'Do we need to chain you up, John?' I asked.
 Coffey appeared to think about this. 'Can if you want to,' he said at last.
 'Don't need to.'
 I nodded at Brutal, who opened the cell door, then turned to Harry, who
 was more or less pointing Percy's.45 at Coffey as Coffey emerged from his
 cell.
 'Give those to Dean,' I said.
 Harry blinked like someone awakening from a momentary doze, saw
 Percy's gun and stick still in his hands, and passed them over to Dean.
 Coffey, meanwhile, hulked in the corridor with his bald skull almost brushing
 one of the caged overhead lights. Standing there with his hands in front of
 him and his shoulders sloped forward to either side of his barrel chest, he
 made me think again, as I had the first time I saw him, of a huge captured
 bear.
 'Lock Percy's toys in the duty desk until we get back,' I said.
 'If we get back,' Harry added.
 'I will,' Dean said to me, taking no notice of Harry.
 'And if someone shows up—probably no one will, but if someone does—
 what do you say?'
 'That Coffey got upset around midnight,' Dean said. He looked as studious
 as a college student taking a big exam. 'We had to give him the jacket and but
 him in the restraint room. If there's noise, who ever hears it'll just think it's
 him.' He raised his chin to John Coffey.
 'And what about us?' Brutal asked.
 'Paul's over in Admin, pulling Del's file and going over the witnesses,' Dean
 said. 'It's especially important this time, because the execution was such a
 balls-up. He said he'd probably be there the rest of the shift. You and Harry
 and Percy are over in the laundry, washing your clothes.'
 Well, that was what folks said, anyway. There was a crap-game in the
 laundry supply room some nights; on others it was blackjack or poker or
 acey-deucey. Whatever it was, the guards who participated were said to be
 washing their clothes. There was usually moonshine at these get-togethers,
 and on occasion a joystick would go around the circle. It's been the same in
 prisons since prisons were invented, I suppose. When you spend your life
 taking care of mudmen, you can't help getting a little dirty yourself. In any
case, we weren't likely to be checked up on. 
 was treated
 with great discretion at Cold Mountain.
 'Right with Eversharp,' I said, turning Coffey around and putting him in
 motion. 'And if it all falls down, Dean, you. don't know nothing about
 nothing.'
 'That's easy to say, but—'
 At that moment, a skinny arm shot out from between the bars of Wharton's
 cell and grabbed Coffey's slab of a bicep. We all gasped. Wharton should
 have been dead to the world, all but comatose, yet here he stood, swaying
 back and forth on his feet like a hard-tagged fighter, grinning blearily.
 Coffey's reaction was remarkable. He didn't pull away, but he also gasped,
 pulling air in over his teeth like someone who has touched something cold
 and unpleasant. His eyes widened, and for a moment he looked as if he and
 dumb had never even met, let alone got up together every morning and lain
 down together every night. He had looked alive—there—when he had
 wanted me to come into his cell so he could touch me. Help me, in
 Coffeyspeak. He had looked that way again when he'd been holding his hands
 out for the mouse. Now, for the third time, his face had lit up, as if a spotlight
 had suddenly been turned on inside his brain. Except it was different this
 time. It was colder this time, and for the first time I wondered what might
 happen if John Coffey were suddenly to run amok. We had our guns, we
 could shoot him, but actually taking him down might not be easy to do.
 I saw similar thoughts on Brutal's face, but Wharton just went on grinning
 his stoned, loose-lipped grin—'Where do you think you're going?' he asked. It
 came out something like Wherra fink yerr gone?
 Coffey stood still, looking first at Wharton, then at Wharton's hand, then
 back into Wharton's face. I could not read that expression. I mean I could see
 the intelligence in it, but I couldn't read it. As for Wharton, I wasn't worried
 about him at all. He wouldn't remember any of this later; he was like a drunk
 walking in a blackout.
 'You're a bad man,' Coffey whispered, and I couldn't tell what I heard in his
 voice—pain or anger or fear. Maybe all three. Coffey looked down at the
 hand on his arm again, the way you might look at a bug which could give you
 a really nasty bite, had it a mind.
 'That's right, nigger,' Wharton said with a bleary, cocky smile. 'Bad as you'd
 want.'
 I was suddenly positive that something awful was going to happen,
something that would change the planned course of this early morning as
 completely as a cataclysmic earthquake can change the course of a river. It
 was going to happen, and nothing I or any of us did would stop it.
 Then Brutal reached down, plucked Wharton's hand off John Coffey's arm,
 and that feeling stopped. It was as if some potentially dangerous circuit had
 been broken. I told you that in my time in E Block, the governor's line never
 rang. That was true, but I imagine that if it ever had, I would have felt the
 same relief that washed over me when Brutal removed Wharton's hand from
 the big man towering beside me. Coffey's eyes dulled over at once; it was as
 if the searchlight inside his head had been turned off.
 'Lie down, Billy,' Brutal said. 'Take you some rest.' That was my usual line
 of patter, but under the circumstances, I didn't mind Brutal using it.
 'Maybe I will,' Wharton agreed. He stepped back, swayed, almost went
 over, and caught his balance at the last second. 'Whoo, daddy. Whole room's
 spinnin around. Like bein drunk.'
 He backed toward his bunk, keeping his bleary regard on Coffey as he
 went. 'Niggers ought to have they own 'lectric chair,' he opined. Then the
 backs of his knees struck his bunk and he swooped down onto it. He was
 snoring before his head touched his thin prison pillow, deep blue shadows
 brushed under the hollows of his eyes and the tip of his tongue lolling out.
 'Christ, how'd he get up with so much dope in him?' Dean whispered.
 'It doesn't matter, he's out now,' I said. 'If he starts to come around, give him
 another pill dissolved in a glass of water. No more than one, though. We don't
 want to kill him.'
 'Speak for yourself,' Brutal rumbled, and gave Wharton a contemptuous
 look. 'You can't kill a monkey like him with dope, anyway. They thrive on it.'
 'He's a bad man,' Coffey said, but in a lower voice this time, as if he was
 not quite sure of what he was saying, or what it meant.
 'That's right,'. Brutal said. 'Most wicked. But that's not a problem now,
 because we ain't going to tango with him anymore.' We started walking
 again, the four of us surrounding Coffey like worshippers circling an idol
 that's come to some stumbling kind of half life. 'Tell me something, John—do
 you know where we're taking you?'
 'To help,' he said. 'I think... to help... a lady?' He looked at Brutal with
 hopeful anxiety.
 Brutal nodded. 'That's right. But how do you know that? How do you
 know?'
John Coffey considered the question carefully, then shook his head. 'I don't
 know,' he told Brutal. 'To tell you the truth, boss, I don't know much of
 anything. Never have.'
 And with that we had to be content.
 6 
I had known the little door between the office and the steps down to the
 storage room hadn't been built with the likes of Coffey in mind, but I hadn't
 realized how great the disparity was until he stood before it, looking at it
 thoughtfully.
 Harry laughed, but John himself seemed to see no humor in the big man
 standing in front of the little door. He wouldn't have, of course; even if he'd
 been quite a few degrees brighter than he was, he wouldn't have. He'd been
 that big man for most of his life, and this door was just a scrap littler than
 most.
 He sat down, scooted through it that way, stood up again, and went down
 the stairs to where Brutal was waiting for him. There he stopped, looking
 across the empty room at the platform where Old Sparky waited, as silent—
 and as eerie—as the throne m the castle of a dead king. The cap hung with
 hollow jauntiness from one of the back-posts, looking less like a king's crown
 than a jester's cap, however, something a fool would wear, or shake to make
 his high-born audience laugh harder at his jokes. The chair's shadow,
 elongated and spidery, climbed one wall like a threat. And yes, I thought I
 could still smell burned flesh in the air. It was faint, but I thought it was more
 than just my imagination.
 Harry ducked through the door, then me. I didn't like the frozen, wide-eyed
 way John was looking at Old Sparky. Even less did I like what I saw on his
 arms when I got close to him: goosebumps.
 'Come on, big boy,' I said. I took his wrist and attempted to pull him in the
 direction of the door leading down to the tunnel. At first he wouldn't go, and I
 might as well have been trying to pull a boulder out of the ground with my
 bare hands.
 'Come on, John, we gotta go, 'less you want the coach-and-four to turn back
 into a pumpkin,' Harry said, giving his nervous laugh again. He took John's
 other arm and tugged, but John still wouldn't come. And then he said
something in a low and dreaming voice. It wasn't me he was speaking to, it
 wasn't any of us, but I have still never forgotten it.
 'They're still in there. Pieces of them, still in there. I hear them screaming.'
 Harry's nervous chuckles ceased, leaving him with a smile that hung on his
 mouth like a crooked shutter hangs on an empty house. Brutal gave me a look
 that was almost terrified, and stepped away from John Coffey. For the second
 time in less than five minutes, I sensed the whole enterprise on the verge of
 collapse. This time I was the one who stepped in; when disaster threatened a
 third time, a little later on, it would be Harry. We all got our chance that
 night, believe me.
 I slid in between John and his view of the chair, standing on my tiptoes to
 make sure I was completely blocking his sight-line. Then I snapped my
 fingers in front of his eyes, twice, sharply.
 'Come on!' I said. 'Walk! You said you didn't need to be chained, now
 prove it! Walk, big boy! Walk, John Coffey! Over there! That door!'
 His eyes cleared. 'Yes, boss.' And praise God, he began to walk.
 'Look at the door, John Coffey, just at the door and nowhere else.'
 'Yes, boss.' John fixed his eyes obediently on the door.
 'Brutal,' I said, and pointed.
 He hurried in advance, shaking out his keyring, finding the right one. John
 kept his gaze fixed on the door to the tunnel and I kept my gaze fixed on
 John, but from the comer of one eye I could see Harry throwing nervous
 glances at the chair, as if he had never seen it before in his life.
 There are pieces of them still in there... I hear them screaming.
 If that was true, then Eduard Delacroix had to be screaming longest and
 loudest of all, and I was glad I couldn't hear what John Coffey did.
 Brutal opened the door. We went down the stairs with Coffey in the lead.
 At the bottom, he looked glumly down the tunnel, with its low brick ceiling.
 He was going to have a crick in his back by the time we got to the other end,
 unless—I pulled the gurney over. The sheet upon which we'd laid Del had
 been stripped (and probably incinerated), so the gurney's black leather pads
 were visible. 'Get on,' I told John. He looked at me doubtfully, and I nodded
 encouragement. 'It'll be easier for you and no harder for us.'
 'Okay, Boss Edgecombe.' He sat down, then lay back, looking up at us with
 worried brown eyes. His feet, clad in cheap prison slippers, dangled almost
 all the way to the floor. Brutal got in between them and pushed John Coffey
 along the dank corridor as he had pushed so many others. The only difference
was that the current rider was still breathing. About halfway along—under
 the highway, we would have been, and able to hear the muffled drone of
 passing cars, had there been any at that hour—John began to smile. 'Say,' he
 said, 'this is fun.' He wouldn't think so the next time he rode the gurney; that
 was the thought which crossed my mind. In fact, the next time he rode the
 gurney, he wouldn't think or feel anything. Or would he? There are pieces of
 them still in there, he had said; he could hear them screaming.
 Walking behind the others and unseen by them, I shivered.
 'I hope you remembered Aladdin, Boss Edgecombe,' Brutal said as we
 reached the far end of the tunnel.
 'Don't worry,' I said. Aladdin looked no different from the other keys I
 carried in those days—and I had a bunch that must have weighed four pounds
 —but it was the master key of master keys, the one that opened everything.
 There was one Aladdin key for each of the five cellblocks in those days, each
 the property of the block super. Other guards could borrow it, but only the
 bull-goose screw didn't have to sign it out.
 There was a steel-barred gate at the far end of the tunnel. It always
 reminded me of pictures I'd seen of old castles; you know, in days of old
 when knights were bold and chivalry was in flower. Only Cold Mountain was
 a long way from Camelot. Beyond the gate, a flight of stairs led up to an
 unobtrusive bulkhead-style door with signs reading NO TRESPASSING and
 STATE PROPERTY and ELECTRIFIED WIRE on the outside.
 I opened the gate and Harry swung it back. We went up, John Coffey once
 more in the lead, shoulders slumped and head bent. At the top, Harry got
 around him (not without some difficulty, either, although he was the smallest
 of the three of us) and unlocked the bulkhead. It was heavy. He could move
 it, but wasn't able to flip it up.
 'Here, boss,' John said. He pushed to the front again—bumping Harry into
 the wall with one hip as he did so—and raised the bulkhead with one hand.
 You would have thought it was painted cardboard instead of sheet steel.
 Cold night air, moving with the ridge-running wind we would now get most
 of the time until March or April, blew down into our faces. A swirl of dead
 leaves came with it, and John Coffey caught one of them with his free hand. I
 will never forget the way he looked at it, or how he crumpled it beneath his
 broad, handsome nose so it would release its smell.
 'Come on,' Brutal said. 'Let's go, forward harch.'
 We climbed out. John lowered the bulkhead and Brutal locked it—no need
for the Aladdin key on this door, but it was needed to unlock the gate in the
 pole-and-wire cage which surrounded the bulkhead.
 'Hands to your sides while you go through, big fella,' Harry murmured.
 'Don't touch the wire, if you don't want a nasty bum.'
 Then we were clear, standing on the shoulder of the road in a little cluster
 (three foothills around a mountain is what I imagine we looked like), staring
 across at the walls and lights and guard-towers of Cold Mountain
 Penitentiary. I could actually see the vague shape of a guard inside one of
 those towers, blowing on his hands, but only for a moment; the road-facing
 windows in the towers were small and unimportant. Still, we would have to
 be very, very quiet. And if a car did come along now, we could be in deep
 trouble.
 'Come on,' I whispered. 'Lead the way, Harry.'
 We slunk north along the highway in a little congaline, Harry first, then
 John Coffey, then Brutal, then me. We breasted the first rise and walked
 down the other side, where all we could see of the prison was the bright glow
 of the lights in the tops of the trees. And still Harry led us onward.
 'Where'd you park it?' Brutal stage-whispered, vapor puffing from his
 mouth in a white cloud. 'Baltimore?'
 'It's right up ahead,' Harry replied, sounding nervous and irritable. 'Hold
 your damn water, Brutus.'
 But Coffey, from what I'd seen of him, would have been happy to walk
 until the sun came up, maybe until it went back down again. He looked
 everywhere, starting—not in fear but in delight, I am quite sure—when an
 owl hoo'd. It came to me that, while he might be afraid of the dark inside, he
 wasn't afraid of it out here, not at all. He was caressing the night, rubbing his
 senses across it the way a man might rub his face across the swells and
 concavities of a woman's breasts.
 'We turn here,' Harry muttered.
 A little finger of road—narrow, unpaved, weeds running up the center
 crown—angled off to the right. We turned up this and walked another quarter
 of a mile. Brutal was beginning to grumble again when Harry stopped, went
 to the left side of the track, and began to remove sprays of broken-off pine
 boughs. John and Brutal pitched in, and before I could join them, they had
 uncovered the dented snout of an old Farmall truck, its wired-on headlights
 staring at us like buggy eyes.
 'I wanted to be as careful as I could, you know,' Harry said to Brutal in a
thin, scolding voice. 'This may be a big joke to you, Brutus Howell, but I
 come from a very religious family, I got cousins back in the hollers so damn
 holy they make the Christians look like lions, and if I get caught playing at
 something like this—!'
 'It's okay,' Brutal said. 'I'm just jumpy, that's all.'
 'Me too,' Harry said stiffly. 'Now if this cussed old thing will just start—'
 He walked around the hood of the truck, still muttering, and Brutal tipped
 me a wink. As far as Coffey was concerned, we had ceased to exist. His head
 was tilted back and he was drinking in the sight of the stars sprawling across
 the sky.
 'I'll ride in back with him, if you want,' Brutal offered. Behind us, the
 Farmall's starter whined briefly, sounding like an old dog trying to find its
 feet on a cold winter morning; then the engine exploded into life. Harry raced
 it once and let it settle into a ragged idle. 'No need for both of us to do it.'
 'Get up front,' I said. 'You can ride with him on the return trip. If we don't
 end up making that one locked into the back of our own stagecoach, that is.'
 'Don't talk that way,' he said, looking genuinely upset. It was as if he had
 realized for the first time how serious this would be for us if we were caught.
 'Christ, Paul!'
 'Go on,' I said. 'In the cab.'
 He did as he was told. I yanked on John Coffey's arm until I could get his
 attention back to earth for a bit, then led him around to the rear of the truck,
 which was stake-sided. Harry had draped canvas over the posts, and that
 would be of some help if we passed cars or trucks going the other way. He
 hadn't been able to do anything about the open back, though.
 'Upsy-daisy, big boy,' I said.
 'Goin for the ride now?'
 'That's right.'
 'Good.' He smiled. It was sweet and lovely, that smile, perhaps the more so
 because it wasn't complicated by much in the way of thought. He got up in
 back. I followed him, went to the front of the truckbed, and banged on top of
 the cab. Harry ground the transmission into first and the truck pulled out of
 the little bower he had hidden it in, shaking and juddering.
 John Coffey stood spread-legged in the middle of the truckbed head cocked
 up at the stars again, smiling broadly, unmindful of the boughs that whipped
 at him as Harry turned his truck toward the highway. 'Look, boss!' he cried in
 a low, rapturous voice, pointing up into the black night. 'It's Cassie, the lady
in the rockin chair!'
 He was right; I could see her in the lane of stars between the dark bulk of
 the passing trees. But it wasn't Cassiopeia I thought of when he spoke of the
 lady in the rocking chair; it was Melinda Moores.
 'I see her, John,' I said, and tugged on his arm. 'But you have to sit down
 now, all right?'
 He sat with his back against the cab, never taking his eyes off the night sky.
 On his face was a look of sublime unthinking happiness. The Green Mile fell
 farther behind us with each revolution of the Farmall's bald tires, and for the
 time being, at least, the seemingly endless flow of John Coffey's tears had
 stopped.
 7 
It was twenty-five miles to Hal Moores's house on Chimney Ridge, and in
 Harry Terwilliger's slow and rattly farm truck, the trip took over an hour. It
 was an eerie ride, and although it seems to me now that every moment of it is
 still etched in my memory—every turn, every bump, every dip, the scary
 times (two of them) when trucks passed us going the other way—I don't think
 I could come even close to describing how I felt, sitting back there with John
 Coffey, both of us bundled up like Indians in the old blankets Harry had been
 thoughtful enough to bring along.
 It was, most of all, a sense of lostness—the deep and terrible ache a child
 feels when he realizes he has gone wrong somewhere, all the landmarks are
 strange, and he no longer knows how to find his way home. I was out in the
 night with a prisoner—not just any prisoner, but one who had been tried and
 convicted for the murder of two little girls, and sentenced to die for the crime.
 My belief that he was innocent wouldn't matter if we were caught; we would
 go to jail ourselves, and probably Dean Stanton would, too. I had thrown over
 a life of work and belief because of one bad execution and because I believed
 the overgrown lummox sitting beside me might be able to cure a woman's
 inoperable brain tumor. Yet watching john watch the stars, I realized with
 dismay that I no longer did believe that, if I ever really had; my urinary
 infection seemed faraway and unimportant now, as such harsh and painful
 things always do once they are past (if a woman could really remember how
 bad it hurt to have her first baby, my mother once said, she'd never have a
second). As for Mr. Jingles, wasn't it possible, even likely, that we had been
 wrong about how badly Percy had hurt him? Or that John—who really did
 have some kind of hypnotic power, there was no doubt of that much, at least
 —had somehow fooled us into thinking we'd seen something we hadn't seen
 at all? Then there was the matter of Hal Moores. On the day I'd surprised him
 in his office, I'd encountered a palsied, weepy old man. But I didn't think that
 was the truest side of the warden. I thought the real Warden Moores was the
 man who'd once broken the wrist of a skatehound who tried to stab him; the
 man who had pointed out to me with cynical accuracy that Delacroix's nuts
 were going to cook no matter who was out front on the execution team. Did I
 think that Hal Moores would stand meekly aside and let us bring a convicted
 child-murderer into his house to lay hands on his wife?
 My doubt grew like a sickness as we rode along. I simply did not
 understand why I had done the things I had, or why I'd persuaded the others
 to go along with me on this crazy night journey, and I did not believe we had
 a chance of getting away with it—not a hound's chance of heaven, as the
 oldtimers used to say. Yet I made no effort to cry it off, either, which I might
 have been able to do; things wouldn't pass irrevocably out of our hands until
 we showed up at Moores's house. Something—I think it might have been no
 more than the waves of exhilaration coming off the giant sitting next to me—
 kept me from hammering on top of the cab and yelling at Harry to turn
 around and go back to the prison while there was still time.
 Such was my frame of mind as we passed off the highway and onto County
 5, and from County 5 onto Chimney Ridge Road. Some fifteen minutes after
 that, I saw the shape of a roof blotting out the stars and knew we had arrived.
 Harry shifted down from second to low (I think he only made it all the way
 into top gear once during the whole trip). The engine lugged, sending a
 shudder through the whole truck, as if it, too, dreaded what now lay directly
 ahead of us.
 Harry swung into Moores's gravelled driveway and parked the grumbling
 truck behind the warden's sensible black Buick. Ahead and slightly to our
 right was a neat-as-a-pin house in the style which I believe is called Cape
 Cod. That sort of house should have looked out of place in our ridge country,
 perhaps, but it didn't. The moon had come up, its grin a little fatter this
 morning, and by its light I could see that the yard, always so beautifully kept,
 now looked uncared for. It was just leaves, mostly, that hadn't been raked
 away. Under normal circumstances that would have been Melly's job, but
Melly hadn't been up to any leaf-raking this fall, and she would never see the
 leaves fall again. That was the truth of the matter, and I had been mad to
 think this vacant-eyed idiot could change it.
 Maybe it still wasn't too late to save ourselves, though. I made as if to get
 up, the blanket I'd been wearing slipping off my shoulders. I would lean over,
 tap on the driver's-side window, tell Harry to get the hell out before—
 John Coffey grabbed my forearm in one of his hamhock fists, pulling me
 back down as effortlessly as I might have done to a toddler. 'Look, boss,' he
 said, pointing. 'Someone's up.'
 I followed the direction of his finger and felt a sinking—not just of the
 belly, but of the heart. There was a spark of light in one of the back windows.
 The room where Melinda now spent her days and nights, most likely; she
 would be no more capable of using the stairs than she would of going out to
 rake the leaves which had fallen during the recent storm.
 They'd heard the truck, of course—Harry Terwilliger's goddam Farmall, its
 engine bellowing and farting down the length of an exhaust pipe
 unencumbered by anything so frivolous as a muffler. Hell, the Mooreses
 probably weren't sleeping that well these nights, anyway.
 A light closer to the front of the house went on (the kitchen), then the
 living-room overhead, then the one in the front hall, then the one over the
 stoop. I watched these forward-marching lights the way a man standing
 against a cement wall and smoking his last cigarette might watch the lockstep
 approach of the firing squad. Yet I did not entirely acknowledge to myself
 even then that it was too late until the uneven chop of the Farmall's engine
 faded into silence, and the doors creaked, and the gravel crunched as Harry
 and Brutal got out.
 John was up, pulling me with him. In the dim light, his face looked lively
 and eager. Why not? I remember thinking. Why shouldn't he look eager? He's
 a fool.
 Brutal and Harry were standing shoulder to shoulder at the foot of the truck,
 like kids in a thunderstorm, and I saw that both of them looked as scared,
 confused, and uneasy as I felt. That made me feel even worse.
 John got down. For him it was more of a step than a jump. I followed, stiff
legged and miserable. I would have sprawled on the cold gravel if he hadn't
 caught me by the arm.
 'This is a mistake,' Brutal said in a hissy little voice. His eyes were very
 wide and very frightened. 'Christ Almighty, Paul, what were we thinking?'
'Too late now,' I said. I pushed one of Coffey's hips, and he went obediently
 enough to stand beside Harry. Then I grabbed Brutal's elbow like this was a
 date we were on and got the two of us walking toward the stoop where that
 light was now burning. 'Let me do the talking. Understand?'
 'Yeah,' Brutal said. 'Right now that's just about the only thing I do
 understand.'
 I looked back over my shoulder. 'Harry, stay by the truck with him until I
 call for you. I don't want Moores to see him until I'm ready.' Except I was
 never going to be ready. I knew that now.
 Brutal and I had just reached the foot of the steps when the front door was
 hauled open hard enough to flap the brass knocker against its plate. There
 stood Hal Moores in blue pajama pants and a strapstyle tee-shirt, his iron
gray hair standing up in tufts and twists. He was a man who had made a
 thousand enemies over the course of his career, and he knew it. Clasped in
 his right hand, the abnormally long barrel not quite pointing at the floor, was
 the pistol which had always been mounted over the mantel. It was the sort of
 gun known as a Ned Buntline Special, it had been his grandfather's, and right
 then (I saw this with a further sinking in my gut) it was fully cocked.
 'Who the hell goes there at two-thirty in the goddam morning?' he asked. I
 heard no fear at all in his voice. And—for the time being, at least—his shakes
 had stopped. The hand holding the gun was as steady as a stone. 'Answer me,
 or—' The barrel of the gun began to rise.
 'Stop it, Warden!' Brutal raised his hands, palms out, toward the man with
 the gun. I have never heard his voice sound the way it did then; it was as if
 the shakes turned out of Moores's hands had somehow found their way into
 Brutus Howell's throat. 'It's us! It's Paul and me and... it's us!'
 He took the first step up, so that the light over the stoop could fall fully on
 his face, I joined him. Hal Moores looked back and forth between us, his
 angry determination giving way to bewilderment. 'What are you doing here?'
 he asked. 'Not only is it the shank of the morning, you boys have the duty. I
 know you do, I've got the roster pinned up in my workshop. So what in the
 name of... oh, Jesus. It's not a lockdown, is it? Or a riot?' He looked between
 us, and his gaze sharpened. 'Who else is down by that truck?'
 Let me do the talking. So I had instructed Brutal, but now the time to talk
 was here and I couldn't even open my mouth. On my way into work that
 afternoon I had carefully planned out what I was going to say when we got
 here, and had thought that it didn't sound too crazy. Not normal—nothing
about it was normal—but maybe close enough to normal to get us through the
 door and give us a chance. Give John a chance. But now all my carefully
 rehearsed words were lost in a roaring confusion. Thoughts and images—Del
 burning, the mouse dying, Toot jerking in Old Sparky's lap and screaming
 that he was a done tom turkey—whirled inside my head like sand caught in a
 dust-devil. I believe there is good in the world, all of it flowing in one way or
 another from a loving God. But I believe there's another force as well, one
 every bit as real as the God I have prayed to my whole life, and that it works
 consciously to bring all our decent impulses to ruin. Not Satan, I don't mean
 Satan (although I believe he is real, too), but a kind of demon of discord, a
 prankish and stupid thing that laughs with glee when an old man sets himself
 on fire trying to light his pipe or when a much-loved baby puts its first
 Christmas toy in its mouth and chokes to death on it. I've had a lot of years to
 think on this, all the way from Cold Mountain to Georgia Pines, and I believe
 that force was actively at work among us on that morning, swirling
 everywhere like a fog, trying to keep John Coffey away from Melinda
 Moores.
 'Warden... Hal... I... ' Nothing I tried made any sense.
 He raised the pistol again, pointing it between Brutal and me, not listening.
 His bloodshot eyes had gotten very wide. And here came Harry Terwilliger,
 being more or less pulled along by our big boy, who was wearing his wide
 and daffily charming smile.
 'Coffey,' Moores breathed. 'John Coffey.' He pulled in breath and yelled in
 a voice that was reedy but strong: 'Halt! Halt right there, or I shoot!'
 From somewhere behind him, a weak and wavery female voice called:
 'Hal? What are you doing out there? Who are you talking to, you fucking
 cocksucker?'
 He turned in that direction for just a moment, his face confused and
 despairing. Just a moment, as I say, but it should have been long enough for
 me to snatch the long-barrelled gun out of his hand. Except I couldn't lift my
 own hands. They might have had weights tied to them. My head seemed full
 of static, like a radio trying to broadcast during an electrical storm. The only
 emotions I remember feeling were fright and a kind of dull embarrassment
 for Hal.
 Harry and John Coffey reached the foot of the steps. Moores turned away
 from the sound of his wife's voice and raised the gun again. He said later that
 yes, he fully intended to shoot Coffey; he suspected we were all prisoners,
and that the brains behind whatever was happening were back by the truck,
 lurking in the shadows. He didn't understand why we should have been
 brought to his house, but revenge seemed the most likely possibility.
 Before he could shoot, Harry Terwilliger stepped up ahead of Coffey and
 then moved in front of him, shielding most of his body. Coffey didn't make
 him do it; Harry did it on his own.
 'No, Warden Moores!' he said. 'It's all right! No one's armed, no one's going
 to get hurt, we're here to help!'
 'Help?' Moores's tangled, tufted eyebrows drew together. His eyes blazed. I
 couldn't take my eyes off the cocked hammer of the Buntline. 'Help what?
 Help who?'
 As if in answer, the old woman's voice rose again, querulous and certain
 and utterly lost: 'Come in here and poke my mudhole, you son of a bitch!
 Bring your asshole friends, too! Let them all have a turn!'
 I looked at Brutal, shaken to my soul. I'd understood that she swore—that
 the tumor was somehow making her swear—but this was more than
 swearing. A lot more.
 'What are you doing here?' Moores asked us again. A lot of the
 determination had gone out of his voice—his wife's wavering cries had done
 that. 'I don't understand. Is it a prison break, or... '
 John set Harry aside—just picked him up and moved him over—and then
 climbed to the stoop. He stood between Brutal and me, so big he almost
 pushed us off either side and into Melly's holly bushes. Moores's eyes turned
 up to follow him, the way a person's eyes do when he's trying to see the top
 of a tall tree. And suddenly the world fell back into place for me. That spirit
 of discord, which had jumbled my thoughts like powerful fingers sifting
 through sand or grains of rice, was gone. I thought I also understood why
 Harry had been able to act when Brutal and I could only stand, hopeless and
 indecisive, in front of our boss. Harry had been with John... and whatever
 spirit it is that opposes that other, demonic one, it was in John Coffey that
 night. And, when John stepped forward to face Warden Moores, it was that
 other spirit—something white, that's how I think of it, as something white—
 which took control of the situation. The other thing didn't leave, but I could
 see it drawing back like a shadow in a sudden strong light.
 'I want to help,' John Coffey said. Moores looked up at him, eyes
 fascinated, mouth hanging open. When Coffey plucked the Buntline Special
 from his hand and passed it to me, I don't think Hal even knew it was gone. I
carefully lowered the hammer. Later, when I checked the cylinder, I would
 find it had been empty all along. Sometimes I wonder if Hal knew that.
 Meanwhile, John was still murmuring. 'I came to help her. Just to help. That's
 all I want.'
 'Hal!' she cried from the back bedroom. Her voice sounded a little stronger
 now, but it also sounded afraid, as if the thing which had so confused and
 unmanned us had now retreated to her. 'Make them go away, whoever they
 are! We don't need no sales men in the middle of the night! No Electrolux!
 No Hoover! No French knickers with come in the crotch! Get them out! Tell
 them to take a flying fuck at a rolling d... d... ' Something broke—it could
 have been a waterglass—and then she began to sob.
 'Just to help,' John Coffey said in a voice so low it was hardly more than a
 whisper. He ignored the woman's sobbing and profanity equally. 'Just to help,
 boss, that's all.'
 'You can't,' Moores said. 'No one can.' It was a tone I'd heard before, and
 after a moment I realized it was how I'd sounded myself when I'd gone into
 Coffey's cell the night he cured my urinary infection. Hypnotized. You mind
 your business and I'll mind mine was what I'd told Delacroix... except it had
 been Coffey who'd been minding my business, just as he was minding Hal
 Moores's now.
 'We think he can,' Brutal said. 'And we didn't risk our jobs—plus a stretch
 in the can ourselves, maybe—just to get here and turn around and go back
 without giving it the old college try.'
 Only I had been ready to do just that three minutes before. Brutal, too.
 John Coffey took the play out of our hands. He pushed into the entry and
 past Moores, who raised a single strengthless hand to stop him (it trailed
 across Coffey's hip and fell off; I'm sure the big man never even felt it), and
 then shuffled down the hall toward the living room, the kitchen beyond it,
 and the back bedroom beyond that where that shrill unrecognizable voice
 raised itself again: 'You stay out of here! Whoever you are, just stay out! I'm
 not dressed, my tits are out and my bitchbox is taking the breeze!'
 John paid no attention, just went stolidly along, head bent so he wouldn't
 smash any of the light fixtures, his round brown skull gleaming, his hands
 swinging at his sides. After a moment we followed him, me first, Brutal and
 Hal side by side, and Harry bringing up the rear. I understood one thing
 perfectly well: it was all out of our hands now, and in John's.
8 
The woman in the back bedroom, propped up against the headboard and
 staring wall-eyed at the giant who had come into her muddled sight, didn't
 look at all like the Melly Moores I had known for twenty years; she didn't
 even look like the Melly Moores Janice and I had visited shortly before
 Delacroix's execution. The woman propped up in that bed looked like a sick
 child got up as a Halloween witch. Her livid skin was a hanging dough of
 wrinkles. It was puckered up around the eye on the right side, as if she were
 trying to wink. That same side of her mouth turned down, one old yellow
 eyetooth hung out over her liverish lower lip. Her hair was a wild thin fog
 around her skull. The room stank of the stuff our bodies dispose of with such
 decorum when things are running right. The chamberpot by her bed was half
 full of some vile yellowish goo. We had come too late anyway, I thought,
 horrified. It had only been a matter of days since she had been recognizable
 —sick but still herself Since then, the thing in her head must have moved
 with horrifying speed to consolidate its position. I didn't think even John
 Coffey could help her now.
 Her expression when Coffey entered was one of fear and horror—as if
 something inside her had recognized a doctor that might be able to get at it
 and pry it loose, after all... to sprinkle salt on it the way you do on a leech to
 make it let go its grip. Hear me carefully: I'm not saying that Melly Moores
 was possessed, and I'm aware that, wrought up as I was, all my perceptions of
 that night must be suspect. But I have never completely discounted the
 possibility of demonic possession, either. There was something in her eyes, I
 tell you, something that looked like fear. On that I think you can trust me; it's
 an emotion I've seen too much of to mistake.
 Whatever it was, it was gone in a hurry, replaced by a look of lively,
 irrational interest. That unspeakable mouth trembled in what might have been
 a smile.
 'Oh, so big!' she cried. She sounded like a little girl just coming down with
 a bad throat infection. She took her hands—as spongy-white as her face—out
 from under the counterpane and patted them together. 'Pull down your pants!
 I've heard about nigger-cocks my whole life but never seen one!'
 Behind me, Moores made a soft groaning sound, full of despair.
 John Coffey paid no attention to any of it. After standing still for a moment,
as if to observe her from a little distance, he crossed to the bed, which was
 illuminated by a single bedside lamp. It threw a bright circle of light on the
 white counterpane drawn up to the lace at the throat of her nightgown.
 Beyond the bed, in shadow, I saw the chaise longue which belonged in the
 parlor. An afghan Melly had knitted with her own hands in happier days lay
 half on the chaise and half on the floor. It was here Hal had been sleeping—
 dozing, at least—when we pulled in.
 As John approached, her expression underwent a third change. Suddenly I
 saw Melly, whose kindness had meant so much to me over the years, and
 even more to Janice when the kids had flown from the nest and she had been
 left feeling so alone and useless and blue. Melly was still interested, but now
 her interest seemed sane and aware.
 'Who are you?' she asked in a clear, reasonable voice. 'And why have you
 so many scars on your hands and arms? Who hurt you so badly?'
 'I don't hardly remember where they all come from, ma'am,' John Coffey
 said in a humble voice, and sat down beside her on her bed.
 Melinda smiled as well as she could—the sneering right side of her mouth
 trembled, but wouldn't quite come up. She touched a white scar, curved like a
 scimitar, on the back of his left hand. 'What a blessing that is! Do you
 understand why?'
 'Reckon if you don't know who hurt you or dog you down, it don't keep you
 up nights,' John Coffey said in his almost-Southern voice.
 She laughed at that, the sound as pure as silver in the bad-smelling
 sickroom. Hal was beside me now, breathing rapidly but not trying to
 interfere. When Melly laughed, his rapid breathing paused for a moment,
 indrawn, and one of his big hands gripped my shoulder. He gripped it hard
 enough to leave a bruise—I saw it the next day—but right then I hardly felt
 it.
 'What's your name?' she asked.
 'John Coffey, ma'am.'
 'Coffey like the drink.'
 'Yes, ma'am, only spelled different.'
 She lay back against her pillows, propped up but not quite sitting up,
 looking at him. He sat beside her, looking back, and the light from the lamp
 circled them like they were actors on a stage—the hulking black man in the
 prison overall and the small dying white woman. She stared into John's eyes
 with shining fascination.
'Ma'am?'
 'Yes, John Coffey?' The words barely breathed, barely slipping to us on the
 bad-smelling, air. I felt the muscles bunching on my arms and legs and back.
 Somewhere, far away, I could feel the warden clutching my arm, and to the
 side of my vision I could see Harry and Brutal with their arms around each
 other, like little kids lost in the night. Something was going to happen.
 Something big. We each felt it in our own way.
 John Coffey bent closer to her. The springs of the bed creaked, the
 bedclothes rustled, and the coldly smiling moon looked in through an upper
 pane of the bedroom window. Coffey's bloodshot eyes searched her upturned
 haggard face.
 'I see it,' he said. Speaking not to her—I don't think so, anyway—but to
 himself. 'I see it, and I can help. Hold still... hold right still... '
 Closer he bent, and closer still. For a moment his huge face stopped less
 than two inches from hers. He raised one hand off to the side, fingers splayed,
 as if telling something to wait... just wait... and then he lowered his face
 again. His broad, smooth lips pressed against hers and forced them open. For
 a moment I could see one of her eyes, staring up past Coffey, filling with an
 expression of what seemed to be surprise. Then his smooth bald head moved,
 and that was gone, too.
 There was a soft whistling sound as he inhaled the air which lay deep
 within her lungs. That was all for a second or two, and then the floor moved
 under us and the whole house moved around us. It wasn't my imagination;
 they all felt it, they all remarked on it later. It was a kind of rippling thump.
 There was a crash as something very heavy fell over in the parlor—the
 grandfather clock, it turned out to be. Hal Moores tried to have it repaired,
 but it never kept time for more than fifteen minutes at a stretch again.
 Closer by there was a crack followed by a tinkle as the pane of glass
 through which the moon had been peeking broke. A picture on the wall—a
 clipper ship cruising one of the seven seas—fell off its hook and crashed to
 the floor; the glass over its front shattered.
 I smelled something hot and saw smoke rising from the bottom of the white
 counterpane which covered her. A portion was turning black, down by the
 jittering lump that was her right foot. Feeling like a man in a dream, I shook
 free of Moores's hand and stepped to the night-table. There was a glass of
 water there, surrounded by three or four bottles of pills which had fallen over
 during the shake. I picked up the water and dumped it on the place that was
smoking. There was a hiss.
 John Coffey went on kissing her in that deep and intimate way, inhaling
 and inhaling, one hand still held out, the other on the bed, propping up his
 immense weight. The fingers were splayed; the hand looked to me like a
 brown starfish.
 Suddenly, her back arched. One of her own hands flailed out in the air, the
 fingers clenching and unclenching in a series of spasms. Her feet drummed
 against the bed. Then something screamed. Again, that's not just me; the
 other men heard it, as well. To Brutal it sounded like a wolf or coyote with its
 leg caught in a trap. To me it sounded like an eagle, the way you'd sometimes
 hear them on still mornings back then, cruising down through the misty cuts
 with their wings stiffly spread.
 Outside, the wind gusted hard enough to give the house a second shake—
 and that was strange, you know, because until then there had been no wind to
 speak of at all.
 John Coffey pulled away from her, and I saw that her face had smoothed
 out. The right side of her mouth no longer drooped. Her eyes had regained
 their normal shape, and she looked ten years younger. He regarded her raptly
 for a moment or two, and then he began to cough. He turned his head so as
 not to cough in her face, lost his balance (which wasn't hard; big as he was,
 he'd been sitting with his butt halfway off the side of the bed to start with),
 and went down onto the floor. There was enough of him to give the house a
 third shake. He landed on his knees and hung his head over, coughing like a
 man in the last stages of TB.
 I thought, Now the bugs. He's going to cough them out, and what a lot
 there'll be this time.
 But he didn't. He only went on coughing in deep retching barks, hardly
 finding time between fits to snatch in the next breath of air. His dark,
 chocolatey skin was graying out. Alarmed, Brutal went to him, dropped to
 one knee beside him, and put an arm across his broad, spasming back. As if
 Brutal's moving had broken a spell, Moores went to his wife's bed and sat
 where Coffey had sat. He hardly seemed to register the coughing, choking
 giant's presence at all. Although Coffey was kneeling at his very feet, Moores
 had eyes only for his wife, who was gazing at him with amazement. Looking
 at her was like looking at a dirty mirror which has been wiped clean.
 'John!' Brutal shouted. 'Sick it up! Sick it up like you done before!'
 John went on barking those choked coughs. His eyes were wet, not with
tears but with strain. Spit flew from his mouth in a fine spray, but nothing
 else came out.
 Brutal whammed him on the back a couple of times, then looked around at
 me. 'He's choking! Whatever he sucked out of her, he's choking on it!'
 I started forward. Before I got two steps, John knee-walked away from me
 and into the corner of the room, still coughing harshly and dragging for each
 breath. He laid his forehead against the wallpaper—wild red roses
 overspreading a garden wall—and made a gruesome deep hacking sound, as
 if he were trying to vomit up the lining of his own throat. That'll bring the
 bugs if anything can, I remember thinking, but there was no sign of them. All
 the same, his coughing fit seemed to ease a little.
 'I'm all right, boss,' he said, still leaning with his forehead against the wild
 roses. His eyes remained closed. I'm not sure how he knew I was there, but he
 clearly did. 'Honest I am. See to the lady.'
 I looked at him doubtfully, then turned to the bed. Hal was stroking Melly's
 brow, and I saw an amazing thing above it: some of her hair—not very much,
 but some—had gone back to black.
 'What's happened?' she asked him. As I watched, color began to blush into
 her cheeks. It was as if she had stolen a couple of roses right out of the
 wallpaper. 'How did I get here? We were going to the hospital up in
 Indianola, weren't we? A doctor was going to shoot X-rays into my head and
 take pictures of my brain.'
 'Shhh,' Hal said. 'Shhh, dearie, none of that matters now.'
 'But I don't understand!' she nearly wailed, 'We stopped at a roadside
 stand... you bought me a dime packet of posies... and then... I'm here. It's
 dark! Have you had your supper, Hal? Why am I in the guest room? Did I
 have the X-ray?' Her eyes moved across Harry almost without seeing him—
 that was shock, I imagine—and fixed on me. 'Paul? Did I have the X-ray?'
 'Yes,' I said. 'It was clear.'
 'They didn't find a tumor?'
 'No,' I said. 'They say the headaches will likely stop now.'
 Beside her, Hal burst into tears.
 She sat forward and kissed his temple. Then her eyes moved to the comer.
 'Who is that Negro man? Why is he in the corner?'
 I turned and saw John trying to get up on his feet. Brutal helped him and
 John made it with a final lunge. He stood facing the wall, though, like a child
 who has been bad. He was still coughing in spasms, but these seemed to be
weakening now.
   'John,' I said. 'Turn around, big boy, and see this lady.'
   He slowly turned. His face was still the color of ashes, and he looked ten
 years older, like a once powerful man at last losing a long battle with
 consumption. His eyes were cast down on his prison slippers, and he looked
 as if he wished for a hat to wring.
   'Who are you?' she asked again. 'What's your name?'
   'John Coffey, ma'am,' he said, to which she immediately replied, 'But not
 spelled like the drink.'
   Hal started beside her. She felt it, and patted his hand reassuringly without
 taking her eyes from the black man.
   'I dreamed of you,' she said in a soft, wondering voice. 'I dreamed you were
 wandering in the dark, and so was I. We found each other.'
   John Coffey said nothing.
   'We found each other in the dark,' she said. 'Stand up, Hal, you're pinning
 me in here.'
   He got up and watched with disbelief as she turned back the counterpane.
 'Melly, you can't—'
   'Don't be silly,' she said, and swung her legs out. 'Of course I can.' She
 smoothed her nightgown, stretched, then got to her feet.
   'My God,' Hal whispered. 'My dear God in heaven, look at her.'
   She went to John Coffey. Brutal stood away from her, an awed expression
 on his face. She limped with the first step, did no more than favor her right
 leg a bit with the second, and then even that was gone. I remembered Brutal
 handing the colored spool to Delacroix and saying, 'Toss it—I want to see
 how he runs.' Mr. Jingles had limped then, but on the next night, the night
 Del walked the Mile, he had been fine.
   Melly put her arms around John and hugged him. Coffey stood there for a
 moment, letting himself be hugged, and then he raised one hand and stroked
 the top of her head. This he did with infinite gentleness. His face was still
 gray. I thought he looked dreadfully sick.
   She stood away from him, her face turned up to his. 'Thank you.'
   'Right welcome, ma'am.'
   She turned to Hal and walked back to him. He put his arms around her.
   'Paul—' It was Harry. He held his right wrist out to me and tapped the face
 of his watch. It was pressing on to three o'clock. Light would start showing
 by four-thirty. If we wanted to get Coffey back to Cold Mountain before that
happened, we would have to go soon. And I wanted to get him back. Partly
 because the longer this went on the worse our chances of getting away with it
 became, yes, of course. But I also wanted John in a place where I could
 legitimately call a doctor for him, if the need arose. Looking at him, I thought
 it might.
 The Mooreses were sitting on the edge of the bed, arms around each other. I
 thought of asking Hal out into the living room for a private word, then
 realized I could ask until the cows came home and he wouldn't budge from
 where he was right then. He might be able to take his eyes off her—for a few
 seconds, at least—by the time the sun came up, but not now.
 'Hal,' I said. 'We have to go now.'
 He nodded, not looking at me. He was studying the color in his wife's
 cheeks, the natural unstrained curve of his wife's lips, the new black in his
 wife's hair.
 I tapped him on the shoulder, hard enough to get his attention for a
 moment, at least.
 'Hal, we never came here.'
 'What—?'
 'We never came here,' I said. 'Later on we'll talk, but for now that's all you
 need to know. We were never here.'
 'Yes, all right... ' He forced himself to focus on me for a moment, with what
 was clearly an effort. 'You got him out. Can you get him back in?'
 'I think so. Maybe. But we need to go.'
 'How did you know he could do this?' Then he shook his head, as if
 realizing for himself that this wasn't the time. 'Paul... thank you.'
 'Don't thank me,' I said. 'Thank John.'
 He looked at John Coffey, then put out one hand—just as I had done on the
 day Harry and Percy escorted John onto the block. 'Thank you. Thank you so
 much.'
 John looked at the hand. Brutal threw a none-too-subtle elbow into his side.
 John started, then took the hand and gave it a shake. Up, down, back to
 center, release. 'Welcome,' he said in a hoarse voice. It sounded to me like
 Melly's when she had clapped her hands and told John to pull down his pants.
 'Welcome,' he said to the man who would, in the ordinary course of things,
 grasp a pen with that hand and then sign John Coffey's execution order with
 it.
 Harry tapped the face of his watch, more urgently this time.
'Brute?' I said. 'Ready?'
 'Hello, Brutus,' Melinda said in a cheerful voice, as if noticing him for the
 first time. 'It's good to see you. Would you gentlemen like tea? Would you,
 Hal? I could make it.' She got up again. 'I've been ill, but I feel fine now.
 Better than I have in years.'
 'Thank you, Missus Moores, but we have to go,' Brutal said. 'It's past John's
 bedtime.' He smiled to show it was a joke, but the look he gave John was as
 anxious as I felt.
 'Well... if you're sure... '
 'Yes, ma'am. Come on, John Coffey.' He tugged John's arm to get him
 going, and John went.
 'Just a minute!' Melinda shook free of Hal's hand and ran as lightly as a girl
 to where John stood. She put her arms around him and gave him another hug.
 Then she reached around to the nape of her neck and pulled a fine-link chain
 out of her bodice. At the end of it was a silver medallion. She held it out to
 John, who looked at it uncomprehendingly.
 'It's St. Christopher,' she said. 'I want you to have it, Mr. Coffey, and wear
 it. He'll keep you safe. Please wear it. For me.'
 John looked at me, troubled, and I looked at Hal, who first spread his hands
 and then nodded.
 'Take it, John,' I said. 'It's a present.'
 John took it, slipped the chain around his bullneck, and dropped the St.
 Christopher medallion into the front of his shirt. He had completely stopped
 coughing now, but I thought he looked grayer and sicker than ever.
 'Thank you, ma'am,' he said.
 'No,' she replied. 'Thank you. Thank you, John Coffey.'
 9 
I rode up in the cab with Harry going back, and was damned glad to be
 there. The heater was broken, but we were out of the open air, at least. We
 had gone about ten miles when Harry spotted a little turnout and veered the
 truck into it.
 'What is it?' I asked. 'Is it a bearing?' To my mind, the problem could have
 been that or anything; every component of the Farmall's engine and
 transmission sounded on the verge of going cataclysmically wrong or giving
up the ghost entirely.
 'Nope,' Harry said, sounding apologetic. 'I got to take a leak, is all. My back
 teeth are floatin.'
 It turned out that we all did, except for John. When Brutal asked if he
 wouldn't like to step down and help us water the bushes, he just shook his
 head without looking up. He was leaning against the back of the cab and
 wearing one of the Army blankets over his shoulders like a serape. I couldn't
 get any kind of read on his complexion, but I could hear his breathing—dry
 and raspy, like wind blowing through straw. I didn't like it.
 I walked into a clump of willows, unbuttoned, and let go. I was still dose
 enough to my urinary infection so that the body's amnesia had not taken full
 hold, and I could be grateful simply to be able to pee without needing to
 scream. I stood there, emptying out and looking up at the moon, I was hardly
 aware of Brutal standing next to me and doing the same thing until he said in
 a low voice, 'Hell never sit in Old Sparky.'
 I looked around at him, surprised and a little frightened by the low certainty
 in his tone. 'What do you mean?'
 'I mean he swallered that stuff instead of spitting out like he done before for
 a reason. It might take a week-he's awful big and strong—but I bet it's
 quicker. One of us'll do a check-tour and there he'll be, lying dead as stone on
 his bunk.'
 I'd thought I was done peeing, but at that a little shiver twisted up my back
 and a little more squirted out. As I rebuttoned my fly, I thought that what
 Brutal was saying made perfect sense. And I hoped, all in all, that he was
 right. John Coffey didn't deserve to die at all, if I was right in my reasoning
 about the Detterick girls, but if he did die, I didn't want it to be by my hand. I
 wasn't sure I could lift my hand to do it, if it came to that.
 'Come on,' Harry murmured out of the dark. 'It's gettin late. Let's get this
 done.'
 As we walked back to the truck, I realized we had left John entirely alone—
 stupidity on the Percy Wetmore level. I thought that he would be gone; that
 he'd spat out the bugs as soon as he saw he was unguarded, and had then just
 lit out for the territories, like Huck and Jim on the Big Muddy. All we would
 find was the blanket he had been wearing around his shoulders.
 But he was there, still sitting with his back against the cab and his forearms
 propped on his knees. He looked up at the sound of our approach and tried to
 give us a smile. It hung there for a moment on his haggard face and then
slipped off.
 'How you doing, Big John?' Brutal asked, climbing into the back of the
 truck again and retrieving his own blanket.
 'Fine, boss,' John said listlessly. 'I's fine.'
 Brutal patted his knee. 'We'll be back soon. And when we get squared
 away, you know what? I'm going to see you get a great big cup of hot coffee.
 Sugar and cream, too.'
 You bet, I thought, going around to the passenger side of the cab and
 climbing in. If we don't get arrested and thrown in jail ourselves first.
 But I'd been living with that idea ever since we'd thrown Percy into the
 restraint room, and it didn't worry me enough to keep me awake. I dozed off
 and dreamed of Calvary Hill. Thunder in the west and a smell that might have
 been juniper berries. Brutal and Harry and Dean and I were standing around
 in robes and tin hats like in a Cecil B. DeMille movie. We were Centurions, I
 guess. There were three crosses, Percy Wetmore and Eduard Delacroix
 flanking John Coffey. I looked down at my hand and saw I was holding a
 bloody hammer.
 We got to get him down from there, Paul! Brutal screamed. We got to get
 him down!
 Except we couldn't, they'd taken away the stepladder. I started to tell Brutal
 this, and then an extra-hard bounce of the truck woke me up. We were
 backing into the place where Harry had hidden the truck earlier on a day that
 already seemed to stretch back to the beginning of time.
 The two of us got out and went around to the back. Brutal hopped down all
 right, but John Coffey's knees buckled and he almost fell. It took all three of
 us to catch him, and he was no more than set solid on his feet again before he
 went off into another of those coughing fits, this one the worst yet. He bent
 over, the coughing sounds muffled by the heels of his palms, which he held
 pressed against his mouth.
 When his coughing eased, we covered the front of the Farmall with the pine
 boughs again and walked back the way we had come. The worst part of that
 whole surreal furlough was—for me, at least—the last two hundred yards,
 with us scurrying back south along the shoulder of the highway. I could see
 (or thought I could) the first faint lightening of the sky in the east, and felt
 sure some early farmer, out to harvest his pumpkins or dig his last few rows
 of yams, would come along and see us. And even if that didn't happen, we
 would hear someone (in my imagination it sounded like Curtis Anderson)
shout 'Hold it right there!' as I used the Aladdin key to unlock the enclosure
 around the bulkhead leading to the tunnel. Then two dozen carbine-toting
 guards would step out of the woods and our little adventure would be over.
 By the time we actually got to the enclosure, my heart was whamming so
 hard that I could see little white dots exploding in front of my eyes with each
 pulse it made. My hands felt cold and numb and faraway, and for the longest
 time I couldn't get the key to go into the lock.
 'Oh Christ, headlights!' Harry moaned.
 I looked up and saw brightening fans of light on the road. My keyring
 almost fell out of my hand; I managed to clutch it at the last second.
 'Give them to me,' Brutal said. 'I'll do it.'
 'No, I've got it,' I said. The key at last slipped into its slot and turned. A
 moment later we were in. We crouched behind the bulkhead and watched as a
 Sunshine Bread truck went pottering past the prison. Beside me I could hear
 John Coffey's tortured breathing. He sounded like an engine which has
 almost run out of oil. He had held the bulkhead door up effortlessly for us on
 our way out, but we didn't even ask him to help this time; it would have been
 out of the question. Brutal and I got the door up, and Harry led john down the
 steps. The big man tottered as he went, but he got down. Brutal and I
 followed him as fast as we could, then lowered the bulkhead behind us and
 locked it again.
 'Christ, I think we're gonna—' Brutal began, but I cut him off with a sharp
 elbow to the ribs.
 'Don't say it,' I said. 'Don't even think it, until he's safe back in his cell.'
 'And there's Percy to think about,' Harry said. Our voices had a flat, echoey
 quality in the brick tunnel. 'The evening ain't over as long as we got him to
 contend with.'
 As it turned out, our evening was far from over.
Part Six. 
Coffey on the Mile 
1 
I sat in the Georgia Pines sunroom, my father's fountain pen in my hand,
 and time was lost to me as I recalled the night Harry and Brutal and I took
 John Coffey off the Mile and to Melinda Moores, in an effort to save her life.
 I wrote about the drugging of William Wharton, who fancied himself the
 second coming of Billy the Kid; I wrote of how we stuck Percy in the
 straitjacket and jugged him in the restraint room at the end of the Green Mile;
 I wrote about our strange night journey—both terrifying and exhilarating—
 and the miracle that befell at the end of it. We saw John Coffey drag a
 woman back, not just from the edge of her grave, but from what seemed to us
 to be the very bottom of it.
 I wrote and was very faintly aware of the Georgia Pines version of life
 going on around me. Old folks went down to supper, then trooped off to the
 Resource Center (yes, you are permitted a chuckle) for their evening dose of
 network sitcoms. I seem to remember my friend Elaine bringing me a
 sandwich, and thanking her, and eating it, but I couldn't tell you what time of
 the evening she brought it, or what was in it. Most of me was back in 1932,
 when our sandwiches were usually bought off old Toot-Toot's rolling gospel
 snack-wagon, cold pork a nickel, corned beef a dime.
 I remember the place quieting down as the relics who live here made ready
 for another night of thin and troubled sleep; I heard Mickey—maybe not the
 best orderly in the place, but certainly the kindest—singing 
 in his good tenor as he went around dispensing the evening meds:
 
 The song made me think of Melinda again, and what she had
 said to John after the miracle had happened. I dreamed of you. I dreamed you
 were wandering in the dark, and so was I. We found each other.
 Georgia Pines grew quiet, midnight came and passed, and still I wrote. I got
 to Harry reminding us that, even though we had gotten John back to the
 prison without being discovered, we still had Percy waiting for us. 'The
evening ain't over as long as we got him to contend with' is more or less what
 Harry said.
 That's where my long day of driving my father's pen at last caught up with
 me. I put it down—just for a few seconds, I thought, so I could flex some life
 back into the fingers—and then I put my forehead down on my arm and
 closed my eyes to rest them. When I opened them again and raised my head,
 morning sun glared in at me through the windows. I looked at my watch and
 saw it was past eight. I had slept, head on arms like an old drunk, for what
 must have been six hours. I got up, wincing, trying to stretch some life into
 my back. I thought about going down to the kitchen, getting some toast, and
 going for my morning walk, then looked down at the sheafs of scribbled
 pages scattered across the desk. All at once I decided to put off the walk for
 awhile. I had a chore, yes, but it could keep, and I didn't feel like playing
 hide-and-seek with Brad Dolan that morning.
 Instead of walking, I'd finish my story. Sometimes it's better to push on
 through, no matter how much your mind and body may protest. Sometimes
 it's the only way to get through. And what I remember most about that
 morning is how desperately I wanted to get free of John Coffey's persistent
 ghost.
 'Okay,' I said. 'One more mile. But first... '
 I walked down to the toilet at the end of the second floor hall. As I stood
 inside there, urinating, I happened to glance up at the smoke detector on the
 ceiling. That made me think of Elaine, and how she had distracted Dolan so I
 could go for my walk and do my little chore the day before. I finished peeing
 with a grin on my face.
 I walked back to the sunroom, feeling better (and a lot comfier in my nether
 regions). Someone—Elaine, I have no doubt—had set down a pot of tea
 beside my pages. I drank greedily, first one cup, then another, before I even
 sat down. Then I resumed my place, uncapped the fountain pen, and once
 more began to write.
 I was just slipping fully into my story when a shadow fell on me. I looked
 up and felt a sinking in my stomach. It was Dolan standing between me and
 the windows. He was grinning.
 'Missed you going on your morning walk, Paulie, he said, 'so I thought I'd
 come and see what you were up to. Make sure you weren't, you know, sick.'
 'You're all heart and a mile wide,' I said. My voice sounded all right—so
 far, anyway—but my heart was pounding hard. I was afraid of him, and I
don't think that realization was entirely new. He reminded me of Percy
 Wetmore, and I'd never been afraid of him... but when I knew Percy, I had
 been young.
 Brad's smile widened, but became no less pleasant.
 'Folks tellin me you been in here all night, Paulie, just writing your little
 report. Now, that's just no good. Old farts like you need their beauty rest.'
 'Percy—' I began, then saw a frown crease his grin and realized my
 mistake. I took a deep breath and began again. 'Brad, what have you got
 against me?'
 He looked puzzled for a moment, maybe a bit unsettled. Then the grin
 returned. 'Old-timer,' he said, 'could be I just don't like your face. What you
 writin, anyway? Last will n testicles?'
 He came forward, craning. I slapped my hand over the page I'd been
 working on. The rest of them I began to rake together with my free hand,
 crumpling some in my hurry to get them under my arm and under cover.
 'Now,' he said, as if speaking to a baby, 'that ain't going to work, you old
 sweetheart. If Brad wants to look, Brad is going to look. And you can take
 that to the everfucking bank.'
 His hand, young and hideously strong, closed over my wrist, and squeezed.
 Pain sank into my hand like teeth, and I groaned.
 'Let go,' I managed.
 'When you let me see,' he replied, and he was no longer smiling. His face
 was cheerful, though; the kind of good cheer you only see on the faces of
 folks who enjoy being mean. 'Let me see, Paulie. I want to know what you're
 writing.' My hand began to move away from the top page. From our trip with
 John back through the tunnel under the road. 'I want to see if it has anything
 to do with where you—'
 'Let that man alone.'
 The voice was like a harsh whipcrack on a dry, hot day... and the way Brad
 Dolan jumped, you would have thought his ass had been the target. He let go
 of my hand, which thumped back down on my paperwork, and we both
 looked toward the door.
 Elaine Connelly was standing there, looking fresh and stronger than she had
 in days. She wore jeans that showed off her slim hips and long legs; there
 was a blue ribbon in her hair. She had a tray in her arthritic hands—juice, a
 scrambled egg, toast, more tea. And her eyes were blazing.
 'What do you think you're doing?' Brad asked. 'He can't eat up here.'
'He can, and he's going to,' she said in that same dry tone of command. I
 had never heard it before, but I welcomed it now. I looked for fear in her eyes
 and saw not a speck—only rage. 'And what you're going to do is get out of
 here before you go beyond the cockroach level of nuisance to that of slightly
 larger vermin—Rattus Americanus, let us say!'
 He took a step toward her, looking both unsure of himself and absolutely
 furious. I thought it a dangerous combination, but Elaine didn't flinch as he
 approached. 'I bet I know who set off that goddam smoke alarm,' Dolan said.
 'Might could have been a certain old bitch with claws for hands. Now get out
 of here. Me and Paulie haven't finished our little talk, yet!'
 'His name is Mr. Edgecombe,' she said, 'and if I ever hear you call him
 Paulie again, I think I can promise you that your days of employment here at
 Georgia Pines will end, Mr. Dolan.'
 'Just who do you think you are?' he asked her. He was hulking over her,
 now, trying to laugh and not quite making it.
 'I think,' she said calmly, 'that I am the grandmother of the man who is
 currently Speaker of the Georgia House of Representatives. A man who loves
 his relatives, Mr. Dolan. Especially his older relatives.'
 The effortful smile dropped off his face the way that writing comes off a
 blackboard swiped with a wet sponge. I saw uncertainty, the possibility that
 he was being bluffed, the fear that he was not, and a certain dawning logical
 assumption: it would be easy enough to check, she must know that, ergo she
 was telling the truth.
 Suddenly I began to laugh, and although the sound was rusty, it was right. I
 was remembering how many times Percy Wetmore had threatened us with his
 connections, back in the bad old days. Now, for the first time in my long,
 long life, such a threat was being made again... but this time it was being
 made on my behalf.
 Brad Dolan looked at me, glaring, then looked back at her.
 'I mean it,' Elaine said. 'At first I thought I'd just let you be—I'm old, and
 that seemed easiest. But when my friends are threatened and abused, I do not
 just let be. Now get out of here. And without one more word.'
 His lips moved like those of a fish—oh, how badly he wanted to say that
 one more word (perhaps the one that rhymes with witch). He didn't, though.
 He gave me a final look, and then strode past her and out into the hall.
 I let out my breath in a long, ragged sigh as Elaine set the tray down in
 front of me and then set herself down across from me. 'Is your grandson
really Speaker of the House?' I asked.
 'He really is.'
 'Then what are you doing here?'
 'Speaker of the statehouse makes him powerful enough to deal with a roach
 like Brad Dolan, but it doesn't make him rich,' she said, laughing. 'Besides, I
 like it here. I like the company.'
 'I will take that as a compliment,' I said, and I did.
 'Paul, are you all right? You look so tired.' She reached across the table and
 brushed my hair away from my forehead and eyebrows. Her fingers were
 twisted, but her touch was cool and wonderful. I closed my eyes for a
 moment. When I opened them again, I had made a decision.
 'I'm all right,' I said. 'And almost finished. Elaine, would you read
 something?' I offered her the pages I had clumsily swept together. They were
 probably no longer in the right order—Dolan really had scared me badly—
 but they were numbered and she could quickly put them right.
 She looked at me consideringly, not taking what I was offering. Yet,
 anyway. 'Are you done?'
 'It'll take you until afternoon to read what's there,' I said. 'If you can make it
 out at all, that is.'
 Now she did take the pages, and looked down at them. 'You write with a
 very fine hand, even when that hand is obviously tired,' she said. 'I'll have no
 trouble with this.'
 'By the time you finish reading, I will have finished writing,' I said. 'You
 can read the rest in a half an hour or so. And then... if you're still willing... I'd
 like to show you something.'
 'Is it to do with where you go most mornings and afternoons?'
 I nodded.
 She sat thinking about it for what seemed a long time, then nodded herself
 and got up with the pages in her hand. 'I'll go out back,' she said. 'The sun is
 very warm this morning.'
 'And the dragon's been vanquished,' I said. 'This time by the lady fair.'
 She smiled, bent, and kissed me over the eyebrow in the sensitive place that
 always makes me shiver. 'We'll hope so,' she said, 'but in my experience,
 dragons like Brad Dolan are hard to get rid of.' She hesitated. 'Good luck,
 Paul. I hope you can vanquish whatever it is that has been festering in you.'
 'I hope so, too,' I said, and thought of John Coffey. I couldn't help it, John
 had said. I tried, but it was too late.
I ate the eggs she'd brought, drank the juice, and pushed the toast aside for
 later. Then I picked up my pen and began to write again, for what I hoped
 would be the last time.
 One last mile.
 A green one.
 2 
When we brought John back to E Block that night, the gurney was a
 necessity instead of a luxury. I very much doubt if he could have made it the
 length of the tunnel on his own; it takes more energy to walk at a crouch than
 it does upright, and it was a damned low ceiling for the likes of John Coffey.
 I didn't like to think of him collapsing down there. How would we explain
 that, on top of trying to explain why we had dressed Percy in the madman's
 dinner-jacket and tossed him in the restraint room?
 But we had the gurney—thank God—and John Coffey lay on it like a
 beached whale as we pushed him back to the storage-room stairs. He got
 down off it, staggered, then simply stood with his head lowered, breathing
 harshly. His skin was so gray he looked as if he'd been rolled in flour. I
 thought he'd be in the infirmary by noon... if he wasn't dead by noon, that
 was.
 Brutal gave me a grim, desperate look. I gave it right back. 'We can't carry
 him up, but we can help him,' I said. 'You under his right arm, me under his
 left.'
 'What about me?' Harry asked.
 'Walk behind us. If he looks like going over backward, shove him forward
 again.'
 'And if that don't work, kinda crouch down where you think he's gonna land
 and soften the blow,' Brutal said.
 'Gosh,' Harry said thinly, 'you oughta go on the Orpheum Circuit, Brute,
 that's how funny you are.'
 'I got a sense of humor, all right,' Brutal admitted.
 In the end, we did manage to get John up the stairs. My biggest worry was
 that he might faint, but he didn't. 'Go around me and check to make sure the
 storage room's empty,' I gasped to Harry.
 'What should I say if it's not?' Harry asked, squeezing under my arm. '

 and then pop back in here?'
 'Don't be a wisenheimer,' Brutal said.
 Harry eased the door open a little way and poked his head through. It
 seemed to me that he stayed that way for a very long time. At last he pulled
 back, looking almost cheerful. 'Coast's clear. And it's quiet.'
 'Let's hope it stays that way,' Brutal said. 'Come on, John Coffey, almost
 home.'
 He was able to cross the storage room under his own power, but we had to
 help him up the three steps to my office and then almost push him through
 the little door. When he got to his feet again, he was breathing stertorously,
 and his eyes had a glassy sheen. Also—I noticed this with real horror—the
 right side of his mouth had pulled down, making it look like Melinda's had,
 when we walked into her room and saw her propped up on her pillows.
 Dean heard us and came in from the desk at the head of the Green Mile.
 'Thank God! I thought you were never coming back, I'd half made up my
 mind you were caught, or the Warden plugged you, or—' He broke off, really
 seeing John for the first time. 'Holy cats, what's wrong with him? He looks
 like he's dying!'
 'He's not dying... are you, John?' Brutal said. His eyes flashed Dean a
 warning.
 'Course not, I didn't mean actually dyin'—Dean gave a nervous little laugh
 —'but, jeepers... '
 'Never mind,' I said. 'Help us get him back to his cell.'
 Once again we were foothills surrounding a mountain, but now it was a
 mountain that had suffered a few million years, worth of erosion, one that
 was blunted and sad. John Coffey moved slowly, breathing through his
 mouth like an old man who smoked too much, but at least he moved.
 'What about Percy?' I asked. 'Has he been kicking up a ruckus?'
 'Some at the start,' Dean said. 'Trying to yell through the tape you put over
 his mouth. Cursing, I believe.'
 'Mercy me,' Brutal said. 'A good thing our tender ears were elsewhere.'
 'Since then, just a mulekick at the door every once in awhile, you know.'
 Dean was so relieved to see us that he was babbling. His glasses slipped
 down to the end of his nose, which was shiny with sweat, and he pushed them
 back up. We passed Wharton's cell. That worthless young man was flat on his
 back, snoring like a sousaphone. His eyes were shut this time, all right.
 Dean saw me looking and laughed.
'No trouble from that guy! Hasn't moved since he laid back down on his
 bunk. Dead to the world. As for Percy kicking the door every now and then, I
 never minded that a bit. Was glad of it, tell you the truth. If he didn't make
 any noise at all, I'd start wonderin if he hadn't choked to death on that gag
 you slapped over his cakehole. But that's not the best. You know the best? It's
 been as quiet as Ash Wednesday morning in New Orleans! Nobody's been
 down all night!' He said this last in a triumphant, gloating voice. 'We got
 away with it, boys! We did!'
 That made him think of why we'd gone through the whole comedy in the
 first place, and he asked about Melinda.
 'She's fine,' I said. We had reached John 's cell. What Dean had said was
 just starting to sink in: We got away with it, boys... we did.
 'Was it like... you know... the mouse?' Dear asked. He glanced briefly at the
 empty cell when Delacroix had lived with Mr. Jingles, then down a the
 restraint room, which had been the mouse's seeming point of origin. His
 voice dropped, the way people's voices do when they enter a big church
 where even the silence seems to whisper. 'Was it a... ' He gulped. 'Shoot, you
 know what I mean—was it a miracle?'
 The three of us looked at each other briefly, confirming what we already
 knew. 'Brought her back from her damn grave is what he did,' Harry said.
 'Yeah, it was a miracle, all right.'
 Brutal opened the double locks on the cell, and gave John a gentle push
 inside. 'Go on, now, big boy. Rest awhile. You earned it. We'll just settle
 Percy's hash—'
 'He's a bad man,' John said in a low, mechanical voice.
 'That's right, no doubt, wicked as a warlock,' Brutal agreed in his most
 soothing voice, 'but don't you worry a smidge about him, we're not going to
 let him near you. You just ease down on that bunk of yours and I'll have that
 cup of coffee to you in no time. Hot and strong. You'll feel like a new man.'
 John sat heavily on his bunk. I thought he'd fall back on it and roll to the
 wall as he usually did, but he just sat there for the time being, hands clasped
 loosely between his knees, head lowered, breathing hard through his mouth.
 The St. Christopher's medal Melinda had given him had fallen out of the top
 of his shirt and swung back and forth in the air. He'll keep you safe, that's
 what she'd told him, but John Coffey didn't look a bit safe. He looked like he
 had taken Melinda's place on the lip of that grave Harry had spoken of.
 But I couldn't think about John Coffey just then I turned around to the
others. 'Dean, get Percy's pistol and hickory stick.'
 'Okay.' He went back up to the desk, unlocked the drawer with the gun and
 the stick in it, and brought them back.
 'Ready?' I asked them. My men—good men, and was never prouder of
 them than I was that night, nodded. Harry and Dean both looked nervous;
 Brutal as stolid as ever. 'Okay. I'm going to do the talking. The less the rest of
 you open your mouths, the better it'll probably be and the quicker it'll
 probably wrap up... for better or worse. Okay?'
 They nodded again. I took a deep breath and walked down to the Green
 Mile restraint room.
 Percy looked up, squinting, when the light fell on him. He was sitting on
 the floor and licking at the tape I had slapped across his mouth. The part I'd
 wound around to the back of his head had come free (probably the sweat and
 brilliantine in his hair had loosened it), and he'd gotten a ways toward getting
 the rest off, as well. Another hour and he would've been bawling for help at
 the top of his lungs.
 He used his feet to shove himself a little way backward when we came in,
 then stopped, no doubt realizing that there was nowhere to go except for the
 southeast corner of the room.
 I took his gun and stick from Dean and held them out in Percy's direction.
 'Want these back?' I asked.
 He looked at me warily, then nodded his head.
 'Brutal,' I said. 'Harry. Get him on his feet.'
 They bent, hooked him under the canvas arms of the straitjacket, and up he
 came. I moved toward him until we were almost nose to nose. I could smell
 the sour sweat in which he'd been basting. Some of it probably came from his
 efforts to get free of the quiet-down coat, or to administer the occasional
 kicks to the door Dean had heard, but I thought most of his sweat had come
 as a result of plain old fear: fear of what we might do to him when we came
 back.
 I'll be okay, they ain't killers, Percy would think... and then, maybe, he'd
 think of Old Sparky and it would cross his mind that yes, in a way we were
 killers. I'd done seventy-seven myself, more than any of the men I'd ever put
 the chest-strap on, more than Sergeant York himself got credit for in World
 War I. Killing Percy wouldn't be logical, but we'd already behaved
 illogically, he would have told himself as he sat there with his arms behind
 him, working with his tongue to get the tape off his mouth. And besides,
logic most likely doesn't have much power over a person's thoughts when that
 person is sitting on the floor of a room with soft walls, wrapped up as neat
 and tight as any spider ever wrapped a fly.
 Which is to say, if I didn't have him where I wanted now, I never would.
 'I'll take the tape off your mouth if you promise not to start yowling,' I said.
 'I want to have a talk with you, not a shouting match. So what do you say?
 Will you be quiet?'
 I saw relief come up in his eyes as he realized that, if I wanted to talk, he
 really did stand a good chance of getting out of this with a whole skin. He
 nodded his head.
 'If you start noising off, the tape goes back on,' I said. 'Do you understand
 that, too?'
 Another nod, rather impatient this time.
 I reached up, grabbed the end of the runner he'd worked loose, and gave it a
 hard yank. It made a loud peeling sound. Brutal winced. Percy yipped with
 pain and began rubbing his lips. He tried to speak, realized he couldn't do it
 with a hand over his mouth, and lowered it.
 'Get me out of this nut-coat, you lugoon,' he spat.
 'In a minute,' I said.
 'Now! Now! Right n—'
 I slapped his face. It was done before I'd even known I was going to do it...
 but of course I'd known it might come to that. Even back during the first talk
 about Percy that I'd had with Warden Moores, the one where Hal advised me
 to put Percy out for the Delacroix execution, I'd known it might come to that.
 A man's hand is like an animal that's only half-tame; mostly it's good, but
 sometimes it escapes and bites the first thing it sees.
 The sound was a sharp snap, like a breaking branch. Dean gasped. Percy
 stared at me in utter shock, his eyes so wide they looked as if they must fall
 out of their sockets. His mouth opened and closed, opened and closed, like
 the mouth of a fish in an aquarium tank.
 'Shut up and listen to me,' I said. 'You deserved to be punished for what you
 did to Del, and we gave you what you deserved. This was the only way we
 could do it. We all agreed, except for Dean, and he'll go along with us,
 because we'll make him sorry if he doesn't. Isn't that so, Dean?'
 'Yes,' Dean whispered. He was milk-pale. 'Guess it is.'
 'And we'll make you sorry you were ever born,' I went on. 'We'll see that
 people know about how you sabotaged the Delacroix execution—'
'Sabotaged—!'
 '—how you almost got Dean killed. We'll blab enough to keep you out of
 almost any job your uncle can get you.'
 Percy was shaking his head furiously. He didn't believe that, perhaps
 couldn't believe that. My handprint stood out on his pale cheek like a fortune
teller's sign.
 'And no matter what, we'd see you beaten within an inch of your life. We
 wouldn't have to do it ourselves. We know people, too, Percy, are you so
 foolish you don't realize that? They aren't up in the state capital, but they still
 know how to legislate certain matters. These are people who have friends in
 here, people who have brothers in here, people who have fathers in here.
 They'd be happy to amputate the nose or the penis of a shitheels like you.
 They'd do it just so someone they care for could get an extra three hours in
 the exercise yard each week.'
 Percy had stopped shaking his head. Now he was only staring. Tears stood
 in his eyes, but didn't fall. I think they were tears of rage and frustration. Or
 maybe I just hoped they were.
 'Okay—now look on the sunny side, Percy. Your lips sting a little from
 having the tape pulled off them, I imagine, but otherwise there's nothing hurt
 but your pride... and nobody needs to know about that but the people in this
 room right now. And we'll never tell, will we, boys?'
 They shook their heads. 'Course not,' Brutal said. 'Green Mile business
 stays on the Green Mile. Always has.'
 'You're going on to Briar Ridge and we're going to leave you alone until
 you go,' I said. 'Do you want to leave it at that, Percy, or do you want to play
 hardball with us?'
 There was a long, long silence as he considered—I could almost see the
 wheels turning in his head as he tried out and rejected possible counters. And
 at last, I think a more basic truth must have overwhelmed the rest of his
 calculations: the tape was off his mouth, but he was still wearing the
 straitjacket and probably he had to piss like a racehorse.
 'All right,' he said. 'We'll consider the matter closed. Now get me out of this
 coat. It feels like my shoulders are—'
 Brutal stepped forward, shouldering me aside, and grabbed Percy's face
 with one big hand—fingers denting in Percy's right cheek, thumb making a
 deep dimple in his left.
 'In a few seconds,' he said. 'First, you listen to me. Paul here is the big boss,
and so he has to talk elegant sometimes.'
 I tried to remember anything elegant I might've said to Percy and couldn't
 come up with much. Still, I thought it might be best to keep my mouth shut;
 Percy looked suitably terrorized, and I didn't want to spoil the effect.
 'People don't always understand that being elegant isn't the same as being
 soft, and that's where I come in. I don't worry about being elegant. I just say
 things straight out. So here it is, straight out: if you go back on your promise,
 we'll most likely take an ass-fucking. But then we'll find you—if we have to
 go all the way to Russia, we'll find you—and we will fuck you, not just up
 the ass but in every hole you own. We'll fuck you until you'll wish you were
 dead, and then we'll rub vinegar in the parts that are bleeding. Do you
 understand me?'
 He nodded. With Brutal's hand digging into the soft sides of his face the
 way it was, Percy looked eerily like Old Toot-Toot.
 Brutal let go of him and stepped back. I nodded to Harry, who went behind
 Percy and started unsnapping and unbuckling.
 'Keep it in mind, Percy,' Harry said. 'Keep it in mind and let bygones be
 bygones.'
 All of it suitably scary, three bogeymen in bluesuits... but I felt a kind of
 knowing despair sweep through me, all the same. He might keep quiet for a
 day or a week, continuing to calculate the odds on various actions, but in the
 end two things—his belief in his connections and his inability to walk away
 from a situation where he saw himself as the loser would combine. When that
 happened, he would spill his guts. We had perhaps helped to save Melly
 Moores's life by taking John to her, and I wouldn't have changed that (
 as we used to say back in those days), but in the end
 we were going to hit the canvas and the ref was going to count us out. Short
 of murder, there was no way we could make Percy keep his end of the
 bargain, not once he was away from us and had started to get back what
 passed for his guts.
 I took a little sidelong glance at Brutal and saw he knew this, too. Which
 didn't surprise me. There were no flies on Mrs. Howell's boy Brutus, never
 had been. He gave me a tiny shrug, just one shoulder lifting an inch and then
 dropping, but it was enough. So what? that shrug said. What else is there,
 Paul? We did what we had to do, and we did it the best we could.
 Yes. Results hadn't been half-bad, either.
 Harry undid the last buckle on the straitjacket. Grimacing with disgust and
rage, Percy pawed it off and let it drop at his feet. He wouldn't look at any of
 us, not directly.
 'Give me my gun and my baton,' he said. I handed them over. He dropped
 the gun into its holster and shoved the hickory stick into its custom loop.
 'Percy, if you think about it—'
 'Oh, I intend to,' he said, brushing past me. 'I intend to think about it very
 hard. Starting right now. On my way home. One of you boys can clock me
 out at quitting time.' He reached the door of the restraint room and turned to
 survey us with a look of angry, embarrassed contempt—a deadly
 combination for the secret we'd had some fool's hope of keeping. 'Unless, of
 course, you want to try explaining why I left early.'
 He left the room and went striding up the Green Mile, forgetting in his
 agitation why that green floored central corridor was so wide. He had mad
 this mistake once before and had gotten away with it. He would not get away
 with it again.
 I followed him out the door, trying to think of a way to soothe him down—I
 didn't want him leaving E Block the way he was now, sweaty and
 dishevelled, with the red print of my hand still on his cheek. The other three
 followed me.
 What happened then happened very fast—it was all over in no more than a
 minute, perhaps even less. Yet I remember all of it to this day—mostly, I
 think, because I told Janice everything when I got home and that set it in my
 mind. What happened afterward—the dawn meeting with Curtis Anderson,
 the inquest, the press-meeting Hal Moores set up for us (he was back by then,
 of course), and the eventual Board of Enquiry in the state capital—those
 things have blurred over the years like so much else in my memory. But as to
 what actually happened next there on the Green Mile, yes, that I remember
 perfectly well.
 Percy was walking up the right side of the Mile with his head lowered, and
 I'll say this much: no ordinary Prisoner could have reached him. John Coffey
 wasn't an ordinary prisoner, though. John Coffey was a giant, and he had a
 giant's reach.
 I saw his long brown arms shoot out from between the bars and yelled,
 'Watch it, Percy, watch it!' Percy started to turn, his left hand dropping to the
 butt of his stick. Then he was seized and yanked against the front of John
 Coffey's cell, the right side of his face smashing into the bars.
 He grunted and turned toward Coffey, raising the hickory club. John was
certainly vulnerable to it; his own face was pressed so strenuously into the
 space between two of the center bars that he looked as if he was trying to
 squeeze his entire head through. It would have been impossible, of course,
 but that was how it looked. His right hand groped, found the nape of Percy's
 neck, curled around it, and yanked Percy's head forward. Percy brought the
 club down between the bars and onto John 's temple. Blood flowed, but John
 paid no attention. His mouth pressed against Percy's mouth. I heard a
 whispering rush—an exhalatory sound, as of long-held breath. Percy jerked
 like a fish on a hook, trying to get away, but he never had a chance; John 's
 right hand was pressed to the back of his neck, holding him firm. Their faces
 seemed to melt together, like the faces of lovers I have seen kissing
 passionately through bars.
 Percy screamed, the sound muffled as it had been through the tape, and
 made another effort to pull back. For an instant their lips came apart a little,
 and I saw the black, swirling tide that was flowing out of John Coffey and
 into Percy Wetmore. What wasn't going into him through his quivering
 mouth was flowing in by way of his nostrils. Then the hand on the nape of his
 neck flexed, and Percy was pulled forward onto John 's mouth again; was
 almost impaled on it.
 Percy's left hand sprang open. His treasured hickory baton fell to the green
 linoleum. He never picked it up again.
 I tried to lunge forward, I guess I did lunge forward, but my movements felt
 old and creaky to myself. I grabbed for my gun, but the strap was still across
 the burled-walnut grip, and at first I couldn't get it out of its holster. Beneath
 me, I seemed to feel the floor shake as it had in the back bedroom of the
 Warden's neat little Cape Cod. That I'm not sure of, but I know that one of the
 caged lightbulbs overhead broke. Fragments of glass showered down. Harry
 yelled in surprise.
 At last I managed to thumb loose the safety strap over the butt of my.38,
 but before I could pull it out of its holster, John had thrust Percy away from
 him and stepped back into his cell. John was grimacing and rubbing his
 mouth, as if he had tasted something bad.
 'What'd he do?' Brutal shouted. 'What'd he do, Paul?'
 'Whatever he took out of Melly, Percy's got it now,' I said.
 Percy was standing against the bars of Delacroix's old cell. His eyes were
 wide and blank—double zeros. I approached him carefully, expecting him to
 start coughing and choking the way John had after he'd finished with
Melinda, but he didn't. At first he only stood there.
 I snapped my fingers in front of his eyes. 'Percy! Hey, Percy! Wake up!'
 Nothing. Brutal joined me, and reached toward Percy's empty face with
 both hands.
 'That isn't going to work,' I said.
 Ignoring me, Brutal clapped his hands sharply together twice, right in front
 of Percy's nose. And it did work, or appeared to work. His eyelids fluttered
 and he stared around—dazed, like someone hit over the head struggling back
 to consciousness. He looked from Brutal to me. All these years later, I'm
 pretty sure he didn't see either of us, but I thought he did then; I thought he
 was coming out of it.
 He pushed away from the bars and swayed a little on his feet. Brutal
 steadied him. 'Easy, boy, you all right?' Percy didn't answer, just stepped past
 Brutal and turned toward the duty desk. He wasn't staggering, exactly, but he
 was listing to port.
 Brutal reached out for him. I pushed his hand away. 'Leave him alone.'
 Would I have said the same if I'd known what was going to happen next? I've
 asked myself that question a thousand times since the fall of 1932. There's
 never any answer.
 Percy made twelve or fourteen paces, then stopped again, head lowered. He
 was outside of Wild Bill Wharton's cell by then. Wharton was still making
 those sousaphone noises. He slept through the whole thing. He slept through
 his own death, now that I think of it, which made him a lot luckier than most
 of the men who ended up here. Certainly luckier than he deserved.
 Before we knew what was happening, Percy drew his gun, stepped to the
 bars of Wharton's cell, and emptied all six shots into the sleeping man' just
 bam-bam-bam, bam-bam-bam, as fast as he could pull the trigger. The sound
 in that enclosed space was deafening; when I told Janice the story the next
 morning, I could still hardly hear the sound of my own voice for the ringing
 in my ears.
 We ran at him, all four of us. Dean got there first—I don't know how, as he
 was behind Brutal and me when Coffey had hold of Percy—but he did. He
 grabbed Percy's wrist, prepared to wrestle the gun out of Percy's hand, but he
 didn't have to. Percy just let go, and the gun fell to the floor. His eyes went
 across us like they were skates and we were ice. There was a low hissing
 sound and a sharp ammoniac smell as Percy's bladder let go, then a brrrap
 sound and a thicker stink as he filled the other side of his pants, as well. His
eyes had settled on a far corner of the corridor. They were eyes that never
 saw anything in this real world of ours again, so far as I know. Back near the
 beginning of this I wrote that Percy was at Briar Ridge by the time that Brutal
 found the colored slivers of Mr. Jingles's spool a couple of months later, and I
 didn't lie about that. He never got the office with the fan in the comer,
 though; never got a bunch of lunatic patients to push around, either. But I
 imagine he at least got his own private room.
 He had connections, after all.
 Wharton was lying on his side with his back against the wall of his cell. I
 couldn't see much then but a lot of blood soaking into the sheet and splattered
 across the cement, but the coroner said Percy had shot like Annie Oakley.
 Remembering Dean's story of how Percy had thrown his hickory baton at the
 mouse that time and barely missed, I wasn't too surprised. This time the range
 had been shorter and the target not moving. One in the groin, one in the gut,
 one in the chest, three in the head.
 Brutal was coughing and waving at the haze of gunsmoke. I was coughing
 myself, but hadn't noticed it until then.
 'End of the line,' Brutal said. His voice was calm, but there was no
 mistaking the glaze of panic in his eyes.
 I looked down the hallway and saw John Coffey sitting on the end of his
 bunk. His hands were clasped between his knees again, but his head was up
 and he no longer looked a bit sick. He nodded at me slightly, and I surprised
 myself—as I had on the day I offered him my hand—by returning the nod.
 'What are we going to do?' Harry gibbered. 'Oh Christ, what are we going
 to do?'
 'Nothing we can do,' Brutal said in that same calm voice. 'We're hung.
 Aren't we, Paul?'
 My mind had begun to move very fast. I looked at Harry and Dean, who
 were staring at me like scared kids. I looked at Percy, who was standing there
 with his hands and jaw dangling. Then I looked at my old friend, Brutus
 Howell.
 'We're going to be okay,' I said.
 Percy at last commenced coughing. He doubled over, hands on his knees,
 almost retching. His face began to turn red. I opened my mouth, meaning to
 tell the others to stand back, but I never got a chance. He made a sound that
 was a cross between a dry heave and a bullfrog's croak, opened his mouth,
 and spewed out a cloud of black, swirling stuff. It was so thick that for a
moment we couldn't see his head. Harry said 'Oh God save us' in a weak and
 watery voice. Then the stuff turned a white so dazzling it was like January
 sun on fresh snow. A moment later the cloud was gone. Percy straightened
 slowly up and resumed his vacant gaze down the length of the Green Mile.
 'We didn't see that,' Brutal said. 'Did we, Paul?'
 'No. I didn't and you didn't. Did you see it, Harry?'
 'No,' Harry said.
 'Dean?'
 'See what?' Dean took his glasses off and began to polish them. I thought he
 would drop them out of his trembling hands, but he managed not to.
 'See what, that's good. That's just the ticket. Now listen to your scoutmaster,
 boys, and get it right the first time, because time is short. It's a simple story.
 Let's not complicate it.'
 3 
I told all this to Jan at around eleven o'clock that morning—the next
 morning, I almost wrote, but of course it was the same day. The longest one
 of my whole life, without a doubt. I told it pretty much as I have here,
 finishing with how William Wharton had ended up lying dead on his bunk,
 riddled with lead from Percy's sidearm.
 No, that's not right. What I actually finished with was the stuff that came
 out of Percy, the bugs or the whatever-it-was. That was a hard thing to tell,
 even to your wife, but I told it.
 As I talked, she brought me black coffee by the half-cup—at first my hands
 were shaking too badly to pick up a whole one without spilling it. By the time
 I finished, the shaking had eased some, and I felt that I could even take some
 food—an egg, maybe, or some soup.
 'The thing that saved us was that we didn't really have to lie, any of us.'
 'Just leave a few things out,' she said, and nodded. 'Little things, mostly,
 like how you took a condemned murderer out of prison, and how he cured a
 dying woman, and how he drove that Percy Wetmore crazy by—what?—
 spitting a pureed brain tumor down his throat?'
 'I don't know, Jan,' I said. 'I only know that if you keep talking like that,
 you'll end up either eating that soup yourself, or feeding it to the dog.'
 'I'm sorry. But I'm right, aren't I?'
'Yeah,' I said. Except we got away with the—' The what? You couldn't call
 it an escape, and furlough wasn't right, either. '—the field trip. Not even
 Percy can tell them about that, if he ever comes back.'
 'If he comes back,' she echoed. 'How likely is that?'
 I shook my head to indicate I had no idea. But I did, actually; I didn't think
 he was going to come back, not in 1932, not in '42 or '52, either. In that I was
 right. Percy Wetmore stayed at Briar Ridge until it burned flat in 1944.
 Seventeen inmates were killed in that fire, but Percy wasn't one of them. Still
 silent and blank in every regard—the word I learned to describe that state is
 catatonic—he was led out by one of the guards long before the fire reached
 his wing. He went on to another institution—I don't remember the name and
 guess it doesn't matter, anyway—and died in 1965. So far as I know, the last
 time he ever spoke was when he told us we could clock him out at quitting
 time... unless we wanted to explain why he had left early.
 The irony was that we never had to explain much of anything. Percy had
 gone crazy and shot William Wharton to death. That was what we told, and
 so far as it went, every word was true. When Anderson asked Brutal how
 Percy had seemed before the shooting and Brutal answered with one word
 —
—I had a terrible moment when I felt that I might burst out
 laughing. Because that was true, too, Percy had been quiet, for most of his
 shift he'd had a swatch of friction-tape across his mouth and the best he'd
 been able to come up with was mmmph, mmmph, mmmph.
 Curtis kept Percy there until eight o'clock, Percy as silent as a cigar-store
 Indian but a lot more eerie. By then Hal Moores had arrived, looking grim
 but competent, ready to climb back into the saddle. Curtis Anderson let him
 do just that, and with a sigh of relief the rest of us could almost hear. The
 bewildered, frightened old man was gone; it was the Warden who strode up
 to Percy, grabbed him by the shoulders with his big hands, and shook him
 hard.
 'Son!' he shouted into Percy's blank face—a face that was already starting
 to soften like wax, I thought. 'Son! Do you hear me? Talk to me if you hear
 me! I want to know what happened!'
 Nothing from Percy, of course. Anderson wanted to get the Warden aside,
 discuss how they were going to handle it—it was a political hot potato if
 there had ever been one—but Moores put him off, at least for the time being,
 and drew me down the Mile. John Coffey was lying on his bunk with his face
 to the wall, legs dangling outrageously, as they always did. He appeared to be
sleeping and probably was... but he wasn't always what he appeared, as we
 had found out.
   'Did what happened at my house have anything to do with what happened
 here when you got back?' Moores asked in a low voice. 'I'll cover you as
 much as I can, even if it means my job, but I have to know.'
   I shook my head. When I spoke, I also kept my voice low-pitched. There
 were now almost a dozen screws milling around at the head of the aisle.
 Another was photographing Wharton in his cell. Curtis Anderson had turned
 to watch that, and for the time being, only Brutal was watching us. 'No, sir.
 We got John back into his cell just like you see, then let Percy out of the
 restraint room, where we'd stashed him for safekeeping. I thought he'd be hot
 under the collar, but he wasn't. Just asked for his sidearm and baton. He didn't
 say anything else, just walked off up the corridor. Then, when he got to
 Wharton's cell he pulled his gun and started shooting.'
   'Do You think being in the restraint room... something to his mind?'
   'No, sir.'
   'Did you put him in the straitjacket?'
   'No, sir. There was no need.'
   'He was quiet? Didn't struggle?'
   'No struggle.'
   'Even when he saw you meant to put him in restraint room, he was quiet
 and didn't struggle.'
   'That's right.' I felt an urge to embroider on this to give Percy at least a line
 or two—and conquered it. Simpler would be better, and I knew it. 'There, was
 no fuss. He just went over into one of the far corners and sat down.'
   'Didn't speak of Wharton then?'
   'No, sir. '
   'Didn't speak of Coffey, either?'
   I shook my head.
   'Could Percy have been laying for Wharton? Did he have something against
 the man?'
   'That might be,' I said, lowering my voice even more. 'Percy was careless
 about where he walked, Hal. One time Wharton reached out, grabbed him up
 against the bars, and messed him over some.' I paused. 'Felt him up, you
 could say.'
   'No worse than that? just... 
... and that was all?'
   'Yes, but it was pretty bad for Percy, just the same. Wharton said something
about how he'd rather screw Percy than Percy's sister.'
 'Urn.' Moores kept looking sideways at John Coffey, as if he needed
 constant reassurance that Coffey was a real person, actually in the world. 'It
 doesn't explain what's happened to him, but it goes a good piece toward
 explaining why it was Wharton he turned on and not Coffey or one of you
 men. And speaking of your men, Paul, will they all tell the same story?'
 'Yes, sir,' I told him. 'And they will,' I said to Jan, starting in on the soup
 she brought to the table. 'I'll see to it.'
 'You did lie,' she said. 'You lied to Hal.'
 Well, that's a wife for you, isn't it? Always poking around for moth-holes in
 your best suit, and finding one more often than not.
 'I guess, if you want to look at it that way. I didn't tell him anything we both
 won't be able to live with, though. Hal's in the clear, I think. He wasn't even
 there, after all. He was home tending his wife until Curtis called him.'
 'Did he say how Melinda was?'
 'Not then, there wasn't time, but we spoke again just as Brutal and I were
 leaving. Melly doesn't remember much, but she's fine. Up and walking.
 Talking about next year's flower beds.'
 My wife sat watching me eat for some little time. Then she asked, 'Does
 Hal know it's a miracle, Paul? Does he understand that?'
 'Yes. We all do, all of us that were there.'
 'Part of me wishes I'd been there, too,' she said, 'but I think most of me is
 glad I wasn't. If I'd seen the scales fall from Saul's eyes on the road to
 Damascus. I probably would have died of a heart attack.'
 'Naw,' I said, tilting my bowl to capture the last spoonful, 'probably would
 have cooked him some soup. This is pretty fine, hon.'
 'Good.' But she wasn't really thinking about soup or cooking or Saul's
 conversion on the Damascus road. She was looking out the window toward
 the ridges, her chin propped on her hand, her eyes as hazy as those ridges
 look on summer mornings when it's going to be hot. Summer mornings like
 the one when the Detterick girls had been found, I thought for no reason. I
 wondered why they hadn't screamed. Their killer had hurt them; there had
 been blood on the porch, and on the steps. So why hadn't they screamed?
 'You think John Coffey really killed that man Wharton, don't you?' Janice
 asked, looking back from the window at last. 'Not that it was an accident, or
 anything like that; you think he used Percy Wetmore on Wharton like a gun.'
 'Yes.'
   'Why?'
   'I don't know.'
   'Tell me again about what happened when you took Coffey off the Mile,
 would you? Just that part.'
   So I did. I told her how the skinny arm shooting out from between the bars
 and grabbing John 's bicep had reminded me of a snake-one of the water
 moccasins we were all scared of when we were kids swimming in the river—
 and how Coffey had said Wharton was a bad man. Almost whispering it.
   'And Wharton said...?' My wife was looking out the window again, but she
 was listening, all right.
   'Wharton said, 
s right, nigger, bad as you
 '
   'And that's all.'
   'Yes. I had a feeling that something was going to happen right then, but
 nothing did. Brutal took Wharton's hand off John and told him to lie down,
 which Wharton did. He was out on his feet to start with. Said something
 about how niggers should have their own electric chair, and that was all. We
 went about our business.'
   'John Coffey called him a bad man.'
   'Yep. Said the same thing about Percy once, too. Maybe more than once. I
 can't remember exactly when, but I know he did.'
   'But Wharton never did anything to John Coffey personally, did he? Like he
 did to Percy, I mean.'
   'No. The way their cells were—Wharton up by the duty desk on one side,
 John down a ways on the other—they could hardly see each other.'
   'Tell me again how Coffey looked when Wharton grabbed him.'
   'Janice, this isn't getting us anywhere.'
   'Maybe it isn't and maybe it is. Tell me again how he looked.'
   I sighed. 'I guess you'd have to say shocked. He gasped. Like you would if
 you were sunning at the beach and I snuck up and trickled a little cold water
 down your back. Or like he'd been slapped.'
   'Well, sure,' she said. 'Being grabbed out of nowhere like that startled him,
 woke him up for a second.'
   'Yes,' I said. And then, 'No.'
   'Well which is it? Yes or no?'
   'No. It wasn't being startled. It was like when he wanted me to come into
 his cell so he could cure my infection. Or when he wanted me to hand him
 the mouse. It was being surprised, but not by being touched... not exactly,
anyway... oh Christ, Jan, I don't know.'
 'All right, we'll leave it,' she said. 'I just can't imagine why John did it, that's
 all. It's not as if he's violent by nature. Which leads to another question, Paul:
 how can you execute him if you're right about those girls? How can you
 possibly put him in the electric chair if someone else—'
 I jerked in my chair. My elbow struck my bowl and knocked it off onto the
 floor, where it broke. An idea had come to me. It was more intuition than
 logic at that point, but it had a certain black elegance.
 'Paul?' Janice asked, alarmed. 'What's wrong?'
 'I don't know,' I said. 'I don't know anything for sure, but I'm going to find
 out if I can.'
 4 
The aftermath of the shooting was a three-ring circus with the governor in
 one ring, the prison in another, and poor brain-blasted Percy Wetmore in the
 third. And the ringmaster? Well, the various gentlemen of the press took
 turns at that job. They weren't as bad then as they are now—they didn't allow
 themselves to be as bad—but even back then before Geraldo and Mike
 Wallace and the rest of them, they could gallop along pretty good when they
 really got the bit in their teeth. That was what happened this time, and while
 the show lasted, it was a good one.
 But even the liveliest circus, the one with the scariest freaks, funniest
 clowns, and wildest animals, has to leave town eventually. This one left after
 the Board of Enquiry, which sounds pretty special and fearsome, but actually
 turned out to be pretty tame and perfunctory. Under other circumstances, the
 governor undoubtedly would have demanded someone's head on a platter, but
 not this time. His nephew by marriage—his wife's own blood kin—had gone
 crackers and killed a man. Had killed a killer—there was that, at least, and
 thank God for it—but Percy had still shot the man as he lay sleeping in his
 cell, which was not quite sporting. When you added in the fact that the young
 man in question remained just as mad as a March hare, you could understand
 why the governor only wanted it to go away, and as soon as possible.
 Our trip to Warden Moores's house in Harry Terwilliger's truck never came
 out. The fact that Percy had been straitjacketed and locked in the restraint
 room during the time we were away never came out. The fact that William
Wharton had been doped to the gills when Percy shot him never came out,
 either. Why would it? The authorities had no reason to suspect anything in
 Wharton's system but half a dozen slugs. The coroner removed those, the
 mortician put him in a pine box, and that was the end of the man with Billy
 the Kid tattooed on his left forearm. Good riddance to bad rubbish, you might
 say.
 All in all, the uproar lasted about two weeks. During that time I didn't dare
 fart sideways, let alone so take a day off to investigate the idea I'd gotten at
 my kitchen table on the morning after all the upheavals. I knew for sure that
 the circus had left town when I got to work on a day just shy of the middle of
 November—the twelfth, I think, but don't hold me to that. That was the day I
 found the piece of paper I'd been dreading on the middle of my desk: the
 DOE on John Coffey. Curtis Anderson had signed it instead of Hal Moores,
 but of course it was just as legal either way, and of course it had needed to go
 through Hal in order to get to me. I could imagine Hal sitting at his desk in
 Administration with that piece of paper in his hand, sitting there and thinking
 of his wife, who had become something of a nine days, wonder to the doctors
 at Indianola General Hospital. She'd had her own DOE papers handed to her
 by those doctors, but John Coffey had tom them up. Now, however, it was
 Coffey's turn to walk the Green Mile, and who among us could stop it? Who
 among us would stop it?
 The date on the death warrant was November 20th. Three days after I got it
 —the fifteenth, I think—I had Janice call me in sick. A cup of coffee later I
 was driving north in my badly sprung but otherwise reliable Ford. Janice had
 kissed me on my way and wished me good luck; I'd thanked her but no longer
 had any clear idea what good luck would be—finding what I was looking for
 or not finding it. All I knew for sure is that I didn't feel much like singing as I
 drove. Not that day.
 By three that afternoon I was well up in the ridge country. I got to the
 Purdom County Courthouse just before it closed, looked at some records,
 then had a visit from the Sheriff, who had been informed by the county clerk
 that a stranger was poking in amongst the local skeletons. Sheriff Catlett
 wanted to know what I thought I was doing. I told him. Catlett thought it over
 and then told me something interesting. He said he'd deny he'd ever said a
 word if I spread it around, and it wasn't conclusive anyway, but it was
 something, all right. It was sure something. I thought about it all the way
 home, and that night there was a lot of thinking and precious little sleeping on
my side of the bed.
 The next day I got up while the sun was still just a rumor in the east and
 drove downstate to Trapingus County. I skirted around Homer Cribus, that
 great bag of guts and waters, speaking to Deputy Sheriff Rob McGee instead.
 McGee didn't want to hear what I was telling him. Most vehemently didn't
 want to hear it. At one point I was pretty sure he was going to punch me in
 the mouth so he could stop hearing it, but in the end he agreed to go out and
 ask Klaus Detterick a couple of questions. Mostly, I think, so he could be
 sure I wouldn't. 'He's only thirty-nine, but he looks like an old man these
 days,' McGee said, 'and he don't need a smartass prison guard who thinks he's
 a detective to stir him up just when some of the sorrow has started to settle.
 You stay right here in town. I don't want you within hailing distance of the
 Detterick farm, but I want to be able to find you when I'm done talking to
 Klaus. If you start feeling restless, have a piece of pie down there in the
 diner. It'll weight you down.' I ended up having two pieces, and it was kind of
 heavy.
 When McGee came into the diner and sat down at the counter next to me, I
 tried to read his face and failed. 'Well?' I asked.
 'Come on home with me, we'll talk there,' he said. 'This place is a mite too
 public for my taste.'
 We had our conference on Rob McGee's front porch. Both. of us were
 bundled up and chilly, but Mrs. McGee didn't allow smoking anywhere in her
 house. She was a woman ahead of her time. McGee talked awhile. He did it
 like a man who doesn't in the least enjoy what he's hearing out of his own
 mouth.
 'It proves nothing, you know that, don't you?' he asked when he was pretty
 well done. His tone was belligerent, and he poked his home-rolled cigarette at
 me in an aggressive way as he spoke, but his face was sick. Not all proof is
 what you see and hear in a court of law, and we both knew it. I have an idea
 that was the only time in his life when Deputy McGee wished he was as
 country-dumb as his boss.
 'I know,' I said.
 'And if you're thinking of getting him a new trial on the basis of this one
 thing, you better think again, se or. John Coffey is a Negro, and in Trapingus
 County we're awful particular about giving new trials to Negroes.'
 'I know that, too.'
 'So what are you going to do?'
I pitched my cigarette over the porch rail and into the street. Then I stood
 up. It was going to be a long, cold ride back home, and the sooner I got going
 the sooner the trip would be done. 'That I wish I did know, Deputy McGee,' I
 said, 'but I don't. The only thing I know tonight for a fact is that second piece
 of pie was a mistake.'
 'I'll tell you something, smart guy,' he said, still speaking in that tone of
 hollow belligerence. 'I don't think you should have opened Pandora's Box in
 the first place.'
 'It wasn't me opened it,' I said, and then drove home.
 I got there late—after midnight—but my wife was waiting up for me. I'd
 suspected she would be, but it still did my heart good to see her, and to have
 her put her arms around my neck and her body nice and firm against mine.
 'Hello, stranger,' she said, and then touched me down below. 'Nothing wrong
 with this fellow now, is there? He's just as healthy as can be.'
 'Yes ma'am,' I said, and lifted her up in my arms. I took her into the
 bedroom and we made love as sweet as sugar, and as I came to my climax,
 that delicious feeling of going out and letting go, I thought of John Coffey's
 endlessly weeping eyes. And of Melinda Moores saying I dreamed you were
 wandering in the dark, and so was I.
 Still lying on top of my wife, with her arms around my neck and our thighs
 together, I began to weep myself.
 'Paul!' she said, shocked and afraid. I don't think she'd seen me in tears
 more than half a dozen times before in the entire course of our marriage. I
 have never been, in the ordinary course of things, a crying man. 'Paul, what is
 it?'
 'I know everything there is to know,' I said through my tears. 'I know too
 goddam much, if you want to know the truth. I'm supposed to electrocute
 John Coffey in less than a week's time, but it was William Wharton who
 killed the Detterick girls. It was Wild Bill.'
 5 
The next day, the same bunch of screws who had eaten lunch in my kitchen
 after the botched Delacroix execution ate lunch there again. This time there
 was a fifth at our council of war: my wife. It was Jan who convinced me to
 tell the others; my first impulse had been not to. Wasn't it bad enough, I asked
her, that we knew?
 'You're not thinking clear about it,' she'd answered. 'Probably because
 you're still upset. They already know the worst thing, that John's on the spot
 for a crime he didn't commit. If anything, this makes it a little better.'
 I wasn't so sure, but I deferred to her judgement. I expected an uproar when
 I told Brutal, Dean, and Harry what I knew (I couldn't prove it, but I knew, all
 right), but at first there was only thoughtful silence. Then, taking another of
 Janice's biscuits and beginning to put an outrageous amount of butter on it,
 Dean said: 'Did John see him, do you think? Did he see Wharton drop the
 girls, maybe even rape them?'
 'I think if he'd seen that, he would have tried to stop it,' I said. 'As for seeing
 Wharton, maybe as he ran off, I suppose he might have. If he did, he forgot it
 later.'
 'Sure,' Dean said. 'He's special, but that doesn't make him bright. He only
 found out it was Wharton when Wharton reached through the bars of his cell
 and touched him.'
 Brutal was nodding. 'That's why John looked so surprised... so shocked.
 Remember the way his eyes opened?'
 I nodded. 'He used Percy on Wharton like a gun, that was what Janice said,
 and it was what I kept thinking about. Why would John Coffey want to kill
 Wild Bill? Percy, maybe—Percy stamped on Delacroix's mouse right in front
 of him, Percy burned Delacroix alive and John knew it—but Wharton?
 Wharton messed with most of us in one way or another, but he didn't mess
 with John at all, so far as I know—hardly passed four dozen words with him
 the whole time they were on the Mile together, and half of those were that
 last night. Why would he want to? He was from Purdom County, and as far
 as white boys from up there are concerned, you don't even see a Negro unless
 he happens to step into your road. So why did he do it? What could he've
 seen or felt when Wharton touched him that was so bad that he saved back
 the poison he took out of Melly's body?'
 'And half-killed himself doing it, too,' Brutal said.
 'More like three-quarters. And the Detterick twins were all I could think of
 that was bad enough to explain what he did. I told myself the idea was nuts,
 too much of a coincidence, it just couldn't be. Then I remembered something
 Curtis Anderson wrote in the first memo I ever got about Wharton—that
 Wharton was crazy-wild, and that he'd rambled all over the state before the
 holdup where he killed all those people. Rambled all over the state. That
stuck with me. Then there was the way he tried to choke Dean when he came
 in. That got me thinking about—'
 'The dog,' Dean said. He was rubbing his neck where Wharton had wrapped
 the chain. I don't think he even knew he was doing it. 'How the dog's neck
 was broken.'
 'Anyway, I went on up to Purdom County to check Wharton's court records
 —all we had here were the reports on the murders that got him to the Green
 Mile. The end of his career, in other words. I wanted the beginning.'
 'Lot of trouble?' Brutal asked.
 'Yeah. Vandalism, petty theft, setting haystack fires, even theft of an
 explosive—he and a friend swiped a stick of dynamite and set it off down by
 a creek. He got going early, ten years old, but what I wanted wasn't there.
 Then the Sheriff turned up to see who I was and what I was doing, and that
 was actually lucky. I fibbed, told him that a cell-search had turned up a bunch
 of pictures in Wharton's mattress—little girls with no clothes on. I said I'd
 wanted to see if Wharton had any kind of history as a pederast, because there
 were a couple of unsolved cases up in Tennessee that I'd heard about. I was
 careful never to mention the Detterick twins. I don't think they crossed his
 mind, either.'
 'Course not,' Harry said. 'Why would they have? That case is solved, after
 all.'
 'I said I guessed there was no sense chasing the idea, since there was
 nothing in Wharton's back file. I mean, there was plenty in the file, but none
 of it about that sort of thing. Then the Sheriff—Catlett, his name is—laughed
 and said not everything a bad apple like Bill Wharton did was in the court
 files, and what did it matter, anyway? He was dead, wasn't he?
 'I said I was doing it just to satisfy my own curiosity, nothing else, and that
 relaxed him. He took me back to his office, sat me down, gave me a cup of
 coffee and a sinker, and told me that sixteen months ago, when Wharton was
 barely eighteen, a man in the western part of the county caught him in the
 barn with his daughter. It wasn't rape, exactly; the fellow described it to
 Catlett as 
n stinkfinger." Sorry, honey.
That
 Janice said. She looked pale, though.
 
 Brutal asked.
 
 I said.
 He winced.
 
ve taken off after Wharton himself, if he
t. So he went to
 Catlett, but made it clear he only wanted Wharton warned. No one wants a
 nasty thing like that right out in public, if it can be helped. Anyway, Sheriff
 C. had been dealing with Wharton
Billy the Kid
We warned that little punk good,
Warned
 him until his head was bleedin, his shoulder was dislocated, and his ass was
 damn near broke.
That sounds like Purdom County,
 all right,
Like as not.
It was three months later, give or take, that Wharton broke out and started
 the spree that ended with the holdup,
That and the murders that got
 him to us.
So he
 Harry said. He
 took off his glasses, huffed on them, polished them. 
t exactly a pattern, is it?
A man doesn
 my wife said, then pressed her
 lips together so tight they almost weren
d been a lot more
 frank with Rob McGee—I
s short career as an outlaw, Klaus Detterick had painted his
 barn (and, incidentally, Bowser
t wanted his
 son crawling around up on a high scaffolding, and the boy had been in
 school, anyway, so he had hired a fellow. A nice enough fellow. Very quiet.
 Three days, work it had been. No, the fellow hadn
t foolish enough to believe that nice and quiet always meant
 safe, especially in those days, when there was so much dust-bowl riffraff on
 the roads. A man with a family had to be careful. In any case, the man hadn
s.
There was a lady named Eva Price in Tefton, and she did rent rooms, but she
 hadn
s hired
 man, just the usual fellows in checked suits and derby hats, hauling sample
 cases—drummers, in other words. McGee had been able to tell me that
 because he stopped at Mrs. Price
s how upset he was.
 
 he added, 
s no law against a man sleeping rough in the
 woods, Mr. Edgecombe. I

 The hired man didn
 house, but he took dinner with
 them twice. He would have met Howie. He would have met the girls, Cora
 and Kathe. He would have listened to their chatter, some of which might have
 been about how much they looked forward to the coming summer, because if
 they were good and the weather was good, Mommy sometimes let them sleep
 out on the porch, where they could pretend they were pioneer wives crossing
 the Great Plains in Conestoga wagons.
 I can see him sitting there at the table, eating roast chicken and Mrs.
 Detterick
s eyes well veiled, nodding,
 smiling a little, storing it all up.
 
t sound like the wildman you told me about when he first came
 on the Mile, Paul,
Not a bit.
You didn
am,
Just
 standin there with his mouth open and his bare butt hangin out the back of his
 Johnny. Lettin us dress him. We thought he was either drugged or foolish.
 Didn

 Dean nodded.
 
s Freight Office in Jarvis,
Got away with
 seventy dollars. He also took an 1892 silver dollar the freight agent carried as
 a lucky piece. That silver dollar was on Wharton when he was captured, and
 Jarvis is only thirty miles from Tefton.
So this robber... this wildman... you think he stopped for three days to help
 Klaus Detterick pain his barn,
Ate dinner with them and said
 please pass the peas just like folks.
The scariest thing about men like him is how unpredictable they are,
He might

 I nodded. Of course I thought it. 
s the name he gave
 Detterick.
What name?
Will Bonney.
Bonney? I don

 
s real name.
Oh.
Oh! So you can get John Coffey off! Thank
 God! All you have to do is show Mr. Detterick a picture of William
 Wharton... his mug-shot should do... 
What
 Janice asked. 

 
s a hell of a law
 officer,
but he swings no weight in Trapingus County. The power
 there is Sheriff Cribus, and the day he reopens the Detterick case on the basis
 of what I was able to find out would be the day it snows in hell.
But... if Wharton was there... if Detterick can identify a picture of him and
 they know he was there... 
Him being there in May doesn
 Brutal said. He spoke in a low, gentle voice, the way you speak
 when you
s been a death in the family. 
ve got this fellow who helped Klaus Detterick paint a barn and then went
 away. Turns out he was committing crimes all over the place, but there
ve got this big Negro, this huge Negro, that you found on the
 riverbank, holding two little dead girls, both of them naked, in his arms.
Paul
t matter.
 Cribus is the only one who can reopen the case, and Cribus doesn
it was a nigger
and not one of our
ll go up there to Cold Mountain,
 have me a steak and a draft beer at Ma
s an
 end to it.
But McGee believes it, doesn
t he stand
 up to the Sheriff?
All he can do by standing up to him is lose his job,
Yes, I think that
 in his heart he knows it was Wharton. But what he says to himself is that, if
 he keeps his mouth shut and plays the game until Cribus either retires or eats
 himself to death, he gets the job. And things will be different then. That
s probably not so
 much different than Homer about one thing. He
After all, it's
 only a Negro. It's not like they're going to burn a white man for it.

 
ll have to go to them,
Go and tell them what you
 found out.
And how should we tell them we found it out, Jan?
Should we tell them about how Wharton grabbed John while we were
 taking him out of the prison to work a miracle on the Warden

 
 She saw how thin the ice was in that direction
 and skated in another one. 
 she said. She looked defiantly at Brutal,
 then turned that look on me. It was hot enough to smoke a hole in newspaper,
 you
Lie,
Lie about what?
About what got you going, first up to Purdom County and then down to
 Trapingus. Go down there to that fat old Sheriff Cribus and say that Wharton
 told you he raped and murdered the Detterick girls. That he confessed.
You can back him up, Brutus.
 You can say you were there when he confessed, you heard it, too. Why,
 Percy probably heard it as well, and that was probably what set him off. He
 shot Wharton because he couldn

 It wasn
We never reported anything like that, ma
 Harry said. He spoke as if
 talking to a child. 
d ask is why we didn
re
 supposed to report anything our cell-babies say about prior crimes. Theirs or
anyone else

 
ve believed him,
A man like Wild Bill
 Wharton lies about anything, Jan. Crimes he
s
 known, women he

 
 Her face was agonized. I went to put my arm around her and
 she pushed it violently away. 

 
 Brutal said.
t fry a man twice, after all.
Let me see if I
t know all that, of course, but he does have a pretty good idea
 that the man condemned to die for the murders didn
t get him a new trial. Can

 
 Dean said. He was polishing his glasses furiously. 
s about
 the size of it.
t believe Janice could think of a way
 to get John out of the killing box he was in, but I didn
s a combination that sometimes turns mountains
 into valleys.
 
 she said at last. 
ve got to get him out on your own.
Ma
 Harry looked flabbergasted. Frightened, too.
 
t you? You can do it again. Only this
 time you won

 
 Dean asked. 

 
t be any of that, Dean; we

 
s a plan that could be worked out by a fellow who can
 Harry said. 
ll have to believe
 that.
It wouldn
 Brutal said. 
t do any good.
Why not?
Just why the damn
 hell not?
Because he
 I said. 

 
 she said. A tear
 trickled down her cheek. She slapped it away with the heel of her hand.
 That much was true. I had written letters to some friends and relatives of
 mine farther down south, asking if they
s description. Anything at all. Janice had done the
 same. We had come up with just one possible sighting so far, in the town of
 Muscle Shoals, Alabama. A twister had struck a church there during choir
 practice—in 1929, this had been—and a large black man had hauled two
 fellows out of the rubble. Both had looked dead to onlookers at first, but as it
 turned out, neither had been even seriously hurt. It was like a miracle, one of
 the witnesses was quoted as saying. The black man, a drifter who had been
 hired by the church pastor to do a day
You
 Brutal said. 

 She sat without answering. She sat that way for almost a full minute, and
 then she did something which shocked me as badly as my sudden flow of
 tears must have shocked her. She reached out and shoved everything off the
 table with one wide sweep of her arm—plates, glasses, cups, silverware, the
 bowl of collards, the bowl of squash, the platter with the carved ham on it,
 the milk, the pitcher of cold tea. All off the table and onto the floor, ker
smash.
 
 Dean cried, rocking back from the table so hard he damned near
 went over on his back.
 Janice ignored him. It was Brutal and me she was looking at, mostly me.
 
 she asked. 
s life, who tried to save those little girls,
 lives? Well, at least there will be one less black man in the world won

 She got up, looked at her chair, and kicked it into the wall. It rebounded and
fell into the spilled squash. I took her wrist and she yanked it free.
 
t touch me,
Next week this time you
t touch me.
ve nothing against it, but I
 don
s Kollege of Musical Knowledge and watching the stars come out. It
 was all right with me.
 
m so sorry I called you a coward,
I feel worse about that than
 anything I

 

 I asked, and then we laughed and had a kiss or two and it was better again
 between us. She was so beautiful, my Janice, and I still dream of her. Old and
 tired of living as I am, I
s young and beautiful with her blue eyes and her fine high breasts
 that I couldn
ll say, Why, honey, I
 wasn
s all. Even now I dream
 that, and sometimes when I wake up and know it was a dream, I cry. I, who
 hardly ever cried at all when I was young.
 
 she asked at last.
 
s innocent? I don

 

 
Then don
t
 help, for God
t tell him.
No.
And you won
t.
No, we can
re there, we can at least make it quick for him. We can
 do that much. It won
 For a moment, mercifully brief, I
 saw the black silk mask burning away from Del
There
 She took my hand, rubbed it down
 the soft velvet of her cheek. 

   I said nothing. Never before or after in my life did I feel so much like
 running from a thing. Just taking Jan with me, the two of us with a single
 packed carpetbag between us, running to anywhere.
   
 she repeated, and then: 

   

   

   I thought about it, then nodded. She was right. She usually was.
 7 
   Two days later, on the eighteenth, Bill Dodge, Hank Bitterman, and
 someone else—I don
t let Toot-Toot stand in for John; all of us knew, even without
 talking about it, that it would have been an obscenity.
   I did it.
   
 Brutal said in a not-quite-steady voice as I sat clamped into
 Old Sparky, 

   John Coffey
re still in there. I hear them screaming.
   
 I said hoarsely. 

   They did it, but for a moment I felt frozen there, as if Old Sparky did not
want to let me go.
 As we walked back to the block, Brutal spoke to me in a low voice, so not
 even Dean and Harry, who were setting up the last of the chairs behind us,
 would overhear. 
m not proud of, but this
 is the first time I ever felt really actually in danger of hell.
t joking. I didn
What
 do you mean?
I mean we
 he said. 

 8 
When John got back from his shower and the floaters had left, I unlocked
 his cell, went in, and sat down on the bunk beside him. Brutal was on the
 desk. He looked up, saw me in there on my own, but said nothing. He just
 went back to whatever paperwork he was currently mangling, licking away at
 the tip of his pencil the whole time.
 John looked at me with his strange eyes—bloodshot, distant, on the verge
 of tears... and yet calm, too, as if crying was not such a bad way of life, not
 once you got used to it. He even smiled a little. He smelled of Ivory soap, I
 remember, as clean and fresh as a baby after his evening bath.
 
 he said, and then reached out and took both of my hands in
 both of his. It was done with a perfect unstudied naturalness.
 
 There was a little block in my throat, and I tried to swallow it
 away. 
re coming down to it now. Another couple
 of days.
Is there anything special you
s all.
Never got the taste,
Something special to eat, then?
Meatloaf

 
 I felt a tingle like you get in your
 arm when you
What else to go with it?
Dunno, boss. Whatever you got, I guess. Okra, maybe, but I

 
 I said, and thought he would also have Mrs. Janice Edgecombe
Now, what about a preacher? Someone you could
 say a little prayer with, night after next? It comforts a man, so I
s the man who
 came when Del—
Don
 John said. 
d be all right. I could get kneebound with you
 a bit, I guess.
Me! John, I couldn

 He pressed down on my hands a little, and that feeling got stronger. 
 he said. 
t you, boss?
I suppose so,
I suppose I could, if it came to that.
d
 cured my waterworks, but it was different, too. And not just because there
 was nothing wrong with me this time. It was different because this time he
 didn
You and Mr. Howell and the other bosses been good to me,
I know you been worryin, but you ought to quit on it now. Because I
 want to go, boss.
t. He could, though. What he said next was the
 longest I ever heard him speak.
 
m rightly tired of the pain I hear and feel, boss. I
s comin from or goin to or why. I
m tired of all the
 times I
t. I
s the pain. There
t.
m going to drown if you
don
You won
splode,
t be sure, because I
t, because the closest it came to the state pen was ten
 miles east. I couldn
32, I would have believed, but I heard it that day.
 Somewhere a lightbulb shattered, loud as a bomb.
 
 I whispered. 

 
m sorry, boss,
I wasn
t much, I
 reckon. You feel like regular soon.
You wonder why they didn
s the only thing
 you still wonder about, ain
t scream while
 they were still there on the porch.
d be doing, nothing would ever change that... and yet we would be
 doing him a favor.
 
 John said. 
s when I
 knowed it was him done it. I seen him that day, I was in the trees and I seen
 him drop them down and run away, but—
You forgot,
That

 
t they scream, John? He hurt them enough to make them bleed,
 their parents were right upstairs, so why didn

 John looked at me from his haunted eyes. 
If you make
 noise, it
 He say that same to the other. You see?
Yes,
s where
 most of it had come from.
 
 John said. 

 I nodded, incapable of speech.
 He smiled. The tears were flowing again, but he smiled. 
s how it is
 every day,
all over the worl
 Then he lay down and turned his face
 to the wall.
 I stepped out into the Mile, locked his cell, and walked up to the duty desk.
 I still felt like a man in a dream. I realized I could hear Brutal
Paul?
Are you all right?
Yes.
t made it up, just to
 set his mind at ease. Then I felt him deciding to believe it, simply because it
 would make things a little easier for him when the time came.
 
 he asked. 

 
m okay,
t, but I felt sure by then that John was
 right and I was going to be. I could feel that tingle starting to subside.
 

 Lying down was the last thing I felt like right then—the idea seemed so
ridiculous that I almost laughed. What I felt like doing was maybe building
 myself a little house, then shingling it, and plowing a garden in back, and
 planting it. All before suppertime.
 That
I

 

 I went to the door and opened it, then looked back. 
ve got it right,
r-e-c-e-i-v-e; i before e, except after c. Most of the time, anyway; I
 guess there

 I went out, not needing to look back at him to know he was staring with his
 mouth open.
 I kept moving for the rest of that shift, unable to sit down for more than five
 minutes at a stretch before jumping up again. I went over to Admin, and then
 I tromped back and forth across the empty exercise yard until the guards in
 the towers must have thought I was crazy. But by the time my shift was over,
 I was starting to calm down again, and that rustle of thoughts in my head—
 like a stirring of leaves, it was—had pretty much quieted down.
 Still, halfway home that morning, it came back strong. The way my urinary
 infection had. I had to park my Ford by the side of the road, get out, and
 sprint nearly half a mile, head down, arms pumping, breath tearing in and out
 of my throat as warm as something that you
t
 say. Six hours before, even three, I would have known, but by then I didn
s too many
 pages here now for me to want to look back through and make sure), lying
 wasn
t tell her why.
 And she didn
s turn to
 walk the Green Mile. It was seasonably cold for those parts at that time of
 year, in the thirties, I
s corn.
 Brutus Howell was out front for this one—he would do the capping and tell
 Van Hay to roll when it was time. Bill Dodge was in with Van Hay. And at
 around eleven-twenty on the night of November 20th, Dean and Harry and I
 went down to our one occupied cell, where John Coffey sat on the end of his
 bunk with his hands clasped between his knees and a tiny dab of meatloaf
 gravy on the collar of his blue shirt. He looked out through the bars at us, a
 lot calmer than we felt, it seemed. My hands were cold and my temples were
 throbbing. It was one thing to know he was willing—it made it at least
 possible for us to do our job—but it was another to know we were going to
 electrocute him for someone else
s
 execution evening.
 
t be staying for this one,
Curtis will be there, and I
 know Coffey will be in good hands with you and Brutus.
Yes, sir, we
 I said. 
 Is he
 coming back around? is what I meant, of course. Is he even now sitting in a
 room somewhere and telling someone—some doctor, most likely—about
 how we zipped him into the nut-coat and threw him into the restraint room
 like any other problem child... any other lugoon, in Percy
being
 evaluated,
How
 Hal had asked then. He had finally managed to
 do up the last button of his coat.
 I nodded. 
ll be fine, Warden.
d nodded back, then gone to the door, looking old and ill. 

 I had told him I didn
d learned in the church of Praise Jesus,
 The Lord Is Mighty, Hal nodding the whole time and looking sort of exalted.
 He could afford to nod, couldn
s death warrant could leave
 and go to her. He didn
s warmth while John Coffey lay on a slab in the
 basement of County Hospital, growing cool as the friendless, speechless
 hours moved toward dawn. And I hated Hal for those things. Just a little, and
 I
Are you ready, John?
Yes, boss. Guess so.
All right, then. I got a piece to say before we go out.
You say what you need to, boss.
John Coffey, as an officer of the court... 
d finished, Harry Terwilliger stepped
 up beside me and held out his hand. John looked surprised for a moment,
 then smiled and shook it. Dean, looking paler than ever, offered his next.
 
 he said hoarsely. 
m sorry.
I be all right,
This the hard part; I be all right in a little while.
s medal Melly had given him swung free
 of his shirt.
 
 I said. 
 It was silver, and if it was lying
 against his skin when Jack Van Hay switched on the juice, it might fuse itself
into his skin. Even if it didn
d seen most everything during my years on the Mile. More than was good
 for me. I knew that now.
 He slipped the chain over his head and put it in my hand. I put the
 medallion in my pocket and told him to step on out of the cell. There was no
 need to check his head and make sure the contact would be firm and the
 induction good; it was as smooth as the palm of my hand.
 
 he said. 
s mouse.
Did you, John?
Yep,
I dreamed he got down to that place Boss Howell talked
 about, that Mouseville place. I dreamed there was kids, and how they laughed
 at his tricks! My!
I dreamed those two little blond-headed girls were there. They us
 laughin, too. I put my arms around em and there us no blood comin out they
 hair and they 
 we was.
Is that so?
t go through with it, just could not, there
 was no way. I was going to cry or scream or maybe my heart would burst
 with sorrow and that would be an end to it.
 We went into my office. John looked around for a moment or two, then
 dropped to his knees without having to be asked. Behind him, Harry was
 looking at me with haunted eyes. Dean was as white as paper.
 I got down on my knees with John and thought there was a funny
 turnaround brewing here: after all the prisoners I
s the way it felt, anyway.
 
 John asked.
 
 I said without even thinking. I closed my eyes and said, 
Hosts, please help us finish what we
 I opened my eyes and looked at Dean and Harry.
 Both of them looked a little better. Probably it was having a few moments to
catch their breath. I doubt it was my praying.
 I started to get up, and John caught my arm. He gave me a look that was
 both timid and hopeful. 
member a prayer someone taught me when I 
 he said. 

 
 Dean said. 

 John closed his eyes and frowned with concentration. I expected now-I-lay
me-down-to-sleep, or maybe a garbled version of the Lord
Baby Jesus, meek and mild, pray for me, an orphan child. Be my strength, be
 my friend, be with me until the end. Amen.
Sorry,
 John.
Don
 he said. He squeezed my arm and smiled. And then, as I
t many witnesses—maybe fourteen in all, half the number that
 had been in the storage room for the Delacroix execution. Homer Cribus was
 there, overflowing his chair as per usual, but I didn
t recognize at first,
 even though I had seen their pictures in a good many newspaper articles by
 that day in the third week of November. Then, as we neared the platform
 where Old Sparky waited, the woman spat, 
 and
 I realized they were the Dettericks, Klaus and Marjorie. I hadn
t often see elderly people who haven
s voice and Sheriff
 Cribus
s direction that night. Detterick seemed to be on some other planet.
 Brutal, standing beside Old Sparky, gave me a small finger-tilt as we
 stepped up onto the platform. He holstered his sidearm and took John 
Everything all right, John?
Yes, boss, but... 
But they
 hurts.
Feel how we feel, then,
We don

 
 But his voice was trembling worse now, and his eyes had begun
 to leak their slow tears again.
 
 Marjorie Detterick suddenly screamed. Her
 ragged, strident voice was like a slap. John cringed against me and moaned.
 
d be just fine!
s
 shoulders and John sat. He gripped Sparky
d had one of the
 shop-trusties weld temporary flexible extensions to the chair
s ankles were nigh on the size of an ordinary fellow
d have to take him back to his cell while Sam
 Broderick, who was head of the shop guys in those days, was found and
 tinkered some more. I gave a final, extra-hard shove with the heels of my
 hands and the clamp on my side closed. John 
Sorry, John,
s right calf was a little smaller), but he was looking at the result with a
 doubtful expression. I guessed I could understand why; the modified clamps
 had a hungry look, their jaws seeming to gape like the mouths of alligators.
 
ll be all right,
Wipe your face, Harry.
s wrists, Dean the other. Over Dean
Roll on one!
Does it hurt yet?
s shoulder. 
 Her husband
 squeezed her. One side of his nose was bleeding, I saw, a narrow trickle of
 red working its way down into his narrow-gauge mustache. When I opened
 the paper the following March and saw he
s field of vision. He touched John
s fingers. I don
s hand on his shoulder. Brutal, who died of a heart attack about
 twenty-five years later (he was eating a fish sandwich and watching TV
 wrestling when it happened, his sister said), was a good man. My friend.
 Maybe the best of us. He had no trouble understanding how a man could
 simultaneously want to go and still be terrified of the trip.
 

 John wet his lips again, then spoke clearly. Six words. 
m sorry for what I
 am.
You ought to be!
Oh you
 monster, you ought to be! YOU DAMN WELL OUGHT TO BE!
s eyes turned to me. I saw no resignation in them, no hope of heaven,
 no dawning peace. How I would love to tell you that I did. How I would love
 to tell myself that. What I saw was fear, misery, incompletion, and
 incomprehension. They were the eyes of a trapped and terrified animal. I
 thought of what he
s how it is every day. All over the world.
 Brutal took the new mask from its brass hook on the back of the chair, but
 as soon as John saw it and understood what it was, his eyes widened in
 horror. He looked at me, and now I could see huge droplets of sweat standing
 out on the curve of his naked skull. As big as robin
Please, boss, don
 he said in a moaning little
 whisper. 
t put me in the dark, don
s
 afraid of the dark.
d go either way. I thought as fast as I
 could and as well as I could—hard to do, with my head pounding the way it
 was. The mask was tradition, not law. It was, in fact, to spare the witnesses.
 And suddenly I decided that they did not need to be spared, not this once.
 John, after all, hadn
t know that, but we did, and I decided I was going to grant
 this last request. As for Marjorie Detterick, she
All right, John,
Say, boy! Put that-air mask on
 him! Think we want to watch his eyes pop?
Be quiet, sir,
This is an execution, and you

 
 Harry
 whispered. Harry died in 1982, close to the age of eighty. An old man. Not in
 my league, of course, but few are. It was intestinal cancer of some kind.
 Brutal bent over and plucked the disk of sponge out of its bucket. He
 pressed a finger into it and licked the tip, but he hardly had to; I could see the
 ugly brown thing dripping. He tucked it into the cap, then put the cap on John
 
s face.
 Dean Stanton ran the strap—let out to its maximum length on this occasion
 —across John 
s blood on
 the dirty board floor. I never knew why. I don
t. As he crossed his hands behind his back and stood at parade rest, I
 knew that he wouldn
t. I didn
s terrified, weeping eyes and knew I had to. Even if it
 damned me forever, I had to.
 
 I said in a dusty, cracking voice I hardly recognized as my
 own.
 The cap hummed. Eight large fingers and two large thumbs rose from the
 ends of the chair
s arms. She died in Memphis, eighteen years later. Harry sent
 me the obit. It was a trolley-car accident.
 John surged forward against the chest-strap. For a moment his eyes met
 mine. They were aware; I was the last thing he saw as we tilted him off the
 edge of the world. Then he fell against the seatback, the cap coming askew
 on his head a little, smoke—a sort of charry mist—drifting out from beneath
 it. But on the whole, you know, it was quick. I doubt if it was painless, the
 way the chair
s not an idea even the most rabid
 of them ever seems to want to investigate personally), but it was quick. The
 hands were limp again, the formerly bluish-white moons at the base of the
 fingernails now a deep eggplant hue, a tendril of smoke rising off cheeks still
 wet with salt water from the sponge... and his tears.
 John Coffey
d
 been afraid of the dark that did it. I remembered the first time we
d asked if we left a light on at night, and my legs gave out on me. I sat on
 my steps and hung my head over my knees and cried. It didn
You didn

 I shook my head no.
 

 I nodded.
 
 she said, helping me up. It made me think of the way
 John had helped me up after we
Come in and have coffee.
s
 all I know, except that this happened in 1932, when the state penitentiary was
 still at Cold Mountain.
 And the electric chair, of course.
 12 
A round quarter past two in the afternoon, my friend Elaine Connelly came
 to me where I sat in the sunroom, with the last pages of my story squared up
 neatly in front of me. Her face was very pale, and there were shiny places
 under her eyes. I think she had been crying.
 Me, I
s eyes—I was afraid of the hate and contempt I
 might see there—but they were all right. Sad and wondering, but all right. No
 hate, no contempt, and no disbelief.
 
 I asked. I tapped the little pile of script
 with my aching hand.
 
s here, but I
d just as soon not—
It isn
 she said. 

 She stopped, as if unsure how to go on. I waited. Sometimes you can
s better not even to try.
 
t get married to your Janice when you were
 twelve and she was eleven, something like that—
We were young when we married—a lot of hill-people are,
 my own mother was—but not that young.
Then how old are you? I

 
 I said. 
s out.
t 
d said, smiling a bit at the
 very idea, and I hadn
Read the rest of it,
What answers I have are in there.
All right,
I
t lie about that,
 but... all right. Where will you be?
Out on the
 croquet course. There
s in that
 direction.
Is it... scary?
No,
Not scary.
All right.
I
ll see you out on the croquet course around... 
Four? Is that all right?
Perfect,
t believe I was
 done... and as you can see, since all this was written after I recorded John
 Coffey
s thoughts and letting the sun warm my old man
t gone entirely to hell, after all. One of his joke-books was
sticking out of his back pocket. The path to the parking lot goes by the
 croquet course, so he saw me there, but he didn
t here, laying a thin trail of
 discount motor oil behind.
 Around four o
d done a little more crying. She put her arms around me
 and hugged me tight. 
 she said. 

 Poor Paul, I heard Jan saying. Poor old guy.
 Elaine began to cry again. I held her, there on the croquet course in the late
 sunshine. Our shadows looked as if they were dancing. Perhaps in the Make
 Believe Ballroom we used to listen to on the radio back in those days.
 At last she got herself under control and drew back from me. She found a
 Kleenex in her blouse pocket and wiped her streaming eyes with it. 
s wife, Paul? What happened with Melly?
She was considered the marvel of the age, at least by the doctors at
 Indianola Hospital,
She died—of a heart attack, not a brain tumor—ten or
 eleven years later. In forty-three, I think. Hal died of a stroke right around
 Pearl Harbor Day—could have been on Pearl Harbor Day, for all I remember
 —so she outlived him by two years. Sort of ironic.
And Janice?
I
 I said. 
ll tell you another time.
Promise?
Promise.
t
 been afraid of hurting her bunched and swollen fingers), Elaine Connelly
 died quietly in her bed. As with Melinda Moores, death came as the result of
 a heart attack. The orderly who found her said she looked peaceful, as if it
 had come suddenly and without much pain. I hope he was right about that. I
 loved Elaine. And I miss her. Her and Janice and Brutal and just all of them.
 We reached the second shed on the path, the one down by the wall. It stood
 back in a bower of scrub pines, its sagging roof and boarded-over windows
laced and dappled with shadows. I started toward it. Elaine hung back a
 moment, looking fearful.
 
s all right,
Really. Come on.
Paul, what?... Oh. Oh!
oh
d gotten from
 the concession man who refills the home
d
 asked him for it special, and since his company also sells tobacco products, it
 was easy for him to get. I offered to pay him for it—they were valuable
 commodities when I worked at Cold Mountain, as I may have told you—but
 he just laughed me off.
 Peering over the edge of it were a pair of bright little oilspot eyes.
 
 I said in a low voice. 

 I squatted down—it hurt, but I managed—and held out my hand. At first I
 didn
s old
 age. His old, old age. Except for the top of his head and the tip of his tail, his
 fur had gone entirely gray.
 He hopped onto the palm of my hand. I raised him up and he stretched his
 neck out, sniffing at my breath with his ears laid back and his tiny dark eyes
 avid. I held my hand out toward Elaine, who looked at the mouse with wide
eyed wonder, her lips parted.
 
t be,
Oh Paul, it isn
t
 be!
Watch,
and then tell me that.
s had been, maybe brighter.
 Messieurs et mesdames, I thought. Bienvenue au cirque du mousie!
 I squatted again, and Mr. Jingles ran off my palm. He was old, but as
obsessed as ever. From the moment I had taken the spool out of the bag, he
s uneven, splintery floor,
 and he was after it at once. He didn
ve said, he was old, a Methuselah of a mouse. Sixty-four, at least.
 He reached the spool, which struck the far wall and bounced back. He went
 around it, then lay down on his side. Elaine started forward and I held her
 back. After a moment, Mr. Jingles found his feet again. Slowly, so slowly, he
 nosed the spool back to me. When he
d found him lying on
 the steps leading to the kitchen in just that same way, as if he
Don
 Elaine said in a broken voice. 
t bear to watch
 him.
There are peppermint candies in the bag, too,
Canada Mints. I think
 he still likes them—he won

 I squatted again, broke a small fragment off the piece I
Sometimes us old fellas can surprise you with our appetites,
You try.
You see?
He knows you

 

 
t a clue. One day when I went out for my early-morning walk, he
 was just here, lying on the kitchen steps. I knew who he was right away, but I
got a spool out of the laundry room occasional basket just to be sure. And I
 got him a cigar box. Lined it with the softest stuff I could find. He
t lost all his
 zest for living. He still likes his spool, and he still likes a visit from his old
 blockmate. Sixty years I held the story of John Coffey inside me, sixty and
 more, and now I
s why he came back. To
 let me know I should hurry up and do it while there was still time. Because
 I

 

 
 I said, and we watched Mr. Jingles for awhile in silence.
 Then, for no reason I could tell you, I tossed the spool again, even though
 Elaine had asked me not to. Maybe only because, in a way, him chasing a
 spool was like old people having their slow and careful version of sex—you
 might not want to watch it, you who are young and convinced that, when it
 comes to old age, an exception will be made in your case, but they still want
 to do it.
 Mr. Jingles set off after the rolling spool again, clearly with pain, and just
 as clearly (to me, at least) with all his old, obsessive enjoyment.
 
 she whispered, watching him go.
 
 I agreed, smiling.
 
t just
 make you better of what was wrong with you then, he made you... what,
 resistant?
That

 

 
s right. Whatever power worked through John did that—that
s finally wearing off. The termites have chewed
 their way through our bark. It took a little longer than it does ordinarily, but
 they got there. I may have a few more years, men still live longer than mice, I
 guess, but Mr. Jingles

 He reached the spool, limped around it, fell over on his side, breathing
 rapidly (we could see his respiration moving through his gray fur like
 ripples), then got up and began to push it gamely back with his nose. His fur
 was gray, his gait was unsteady, but the oilspots that were his eyes gleamed
 as brightly as ever.

 she said. 

 
 I said. 

 
 a voice cried from the open door.
 It was loaded with a kind of satiric horror. 

 I turned, not at all surprised to see Brad Dolan there in the doorway. He
 was grinning as a man only does when he feels he
Get out,
Get out right now.
Don
 he said, still smiling.
 
t tip the hill now. This
 ain
re supposed to be. This is off-limits. Little love-nest, Paulie?
 Is that what you got here? Kind of a Playboy pad for the geriatric... 
s tenant. 

 I didn
t Brad Dolan standing there in the doorway
 but Percy Wetmore. In another moment he would rush into the shed and
 crush Mr. Jingles (who no longer had a hope of outrunning him) under his
 shoe, and this time there was no John Coffey to bring him back from the edge
 of death. Any more than there had been a John Coffey when I needed him on
 that rainy day in Alabama.
 I got to my feet, not feeling any ache in my joints or muscles this time, and
 rushed toward Dolan. 
 I yelled. 
ll—
Who you callin Percy?
Ain
t gonna touch im. Don
s one dead rodent.
Aw, sakes, now!
Did we just lose the
 family pet? Should we have a little funeral, with paper flowers and—
SHUT UP!
GET OUT OF HERE!
 GET OUT OR YOU

 
t be able to get so much as a slice of bread on a breadline,
t take my eyes off Mr. Jingles,
 lying on Elaine
s smallest bearskin rug.
 Brad thought about coming back at her, calling her bluff—he was right, the
 shed wasn
t. He was, at heart, a coward, just like Percy.
 And he might have checked on her claim that her grandson was Somebody
 Important and had discovered it was a true claim. Most of all, perhaps, his
 curiosity had been satisfied, his thirst to know slaked. And after all his
 wondering, the mystery had turned out not to be such of a much. An old
 man
Don
re getting so het up,
Either of you. You act
 like it was a dog, or something.
Get out,
Get out, you ignorant man. What little mind you have is
 ugly and misdirected.
I
 he said,
 
re going to find a
 new lock on this door. This place is off-limits to the residents, no matter what
 bad-tempered things old Mrs. My Shit Don
d be apt to snap like a piece of kindling. So just take that
 dead mouse, if you want it, and get gone. The Love Shack is hereby closed.
s earned at
 least a draw. I waited until he was gone, and then gently took Mr. Jingles
 from Elaine. My eyes happened on the bag with the peppermint candies in it,
 and that did it—the tears began to come. I don
Would you help me to bury an old friend?
s heavy footsteps had faded away.
 
 She put her arm around my waist and laid her head against my
 shoulder. With one old and twisted finger, she stroked Mr. Jingles
I would be happy to do that.
s
 pet mouse as the afternoon shadows drew long through the trees, and then we
 walked back to get our supper and take up what remained of our lives. And it
 was Del I found myself thinking of, Del kneeling on the green carpet of my
 office with his hands folded and his bald pate gleaming in the lamplight, Del
 who had asked us to take care of Mr. Jingles, to make sure the bad 
t hurt him anymore. Except the bad 
t
 he?
 
 Elaine asked. Her voice was both kind and exhausted. Even digging
 a grave with a trowel and laying a mouse to rest in it is a lot of excitement for
 old sweeties like us, I guess. 

 My arm was around her waist. I squeezed it. 
m fine,
Look,
It

 
 I said, and we stayed there on the lawn is for quite awhile, arms
 around each other
heure de n tre mort.
 Amen.
 13 
1956
 Alabama in the rain.
 Our third grandchild, a beautiful girl named Tessa, was graduating from the
 University of Florida. We went down on a Greyhound. Sixty-four, I was then,
 a mere stripling. Jan was fifty-nine, and as beautiful as ever. To me, at least.
 We were sitting in the seat all the way at the back, and she was fussing at me
 for not buying her a new camera to record the blessed event. I opened my
mouth to tell her we had a day to shop in after we got down there, and she
 could have a new camera if she wanted one, it would fit the budget all right,
 and furthermore I thought she was just fussing because she was bored with
 the ride and didn
d brought. A Perry Mason, it was. That
s been left
 out in the sun.
 Do you remember that accident? I suppose a few folks reading this might,
 but mostly not. Yet it made front-page headlines from coast to coast when it
 happened. We were outside Birmingham in a driving rain, Janice
 complaining about her old camera, and a tire blew. The bus waltzed sideways
 on the wet pavement and was hit broadside by a truck hauling fertilizer. The
 truck slammed the bus into a bridge abutment at better than sixty miles an
 hour, crushed it against the concrete, and broke it in half. Two shiny, rain
streaked pieces spun in two opposite directions, the one with the diesel tank
 in it exploding and sending a red-black fireball up into the rainy-gray sky. At
 one moment Janice was complaining about her old Kodak, and at the very
 next I found myself lying on the far side of the underpass in the rain and
 staring at a pair of blue nylon panties that had spilled out of someone
s name. I kicked aside an alarm clock, I remember that,
 and I remember seeing a dead boy of about thirteen lying in a strew of glass
 with P.F. Flyers on his feet and half his face gone. I felt the rain beating on
 my own face, then I went through the underpass and it was gone for awhile.
 When I came out on the other side it was there again, hammering my cheeks
 and forehead. Lying by the shattered cab of the overturned fertilizer truck, I
 saw Jan. I recognized her by her red dress—it was her second-best. The best
 she had been saving for the actual graduation, of course.
 She wasn
m only kidding myself about that. All I know for sure is that I have never let
 her go, not really.
 She was trembling all over. One of her shoes had come off and I could see
her foot jittering. Her eyes were open but blank, the left one full of blood, and
 as I fell on my knees next to her in the smoky-smelling rain, all I could think
 of was that jitter meant she was being electrocuted; she was being
 electrocuted and I had to hold the roll before it was too late.
 
 I screamed. 

 No one helped, no one even came. The rain pounded down—a hard,
 soaking rain that flattened
 My still-black hair against my skull—and I held her in my arms and no one
 came. Her blank eyes looked up at me with a kind of dazed intensity, and
 blood poured from the back of her crushed head in a freshet. Beside one
 trembling, mindlessly spasming hand was a piece of chromed steel with the
 letters GREY on it. Next to that was roughly one quarter of what had once
 been a businessman in a brown Wool suit.
 
 I screamed again, and turned toward the underpass, and there I
 saw John Coffey standing in the shadows, only a shadow himself, a big man
 with long, dangling arms and a bald head. 
 I screamed. 

 Rain ran into my eyes. I blinked it away, and he was gone. I could see the
 shadows I had mistaken for John... but it hadn
m sure
 of that. He was there. Maybe only as a ghost, but he was there, the rain on his
 face mixing with the endless flow of his tears.
 She died in my arms, there in the rain beside that fertilizer truck with the
 smell of burning diesel fuel in my nose. There was no moment of awareness
 —the eyes clearing, the lips moving in some whispered final declaration of
 love. There was a kind of shivery clench in the flesh beneath my hands, and
 then she was gone. I thought of Melinda Moores for the first time in years,
 then, Melinda sitting up in the bed where all the doctors at Indianola General
 Hospital had believed she would die; Melinda Moores looking fresh and
 rested and peering at John Coffey with bright, wondering eyes. Melinda
 saying I dreamed you were wandering in the dark, and so was I. We found
 each other.
 I put my wife
John! JOHN COFFEY! WHERE ARE YOU, BIG BOY?
You saved Hal

 No answer; only the smell of burning diesel and burning bodies, only the
 rain falling ceaselessly out of the gray sky and drumming on the cement
 while my wife lay dead on the road behind me. No answer then and no
 answer now. But of course it wasn
s mouse, the one that could do that cute trick with the
 spool and seemed to be looking for Del long before Del showed up... long
 before John Coffey showed up, either.
 John saved me, too, and years later, standing in the pouring Alabama rain
 and looking for a man who wasn
t have colds often are
 supposed to suffer more serious ones, that has never been the case with me.
 Once, earlier on in that awful year of 1956, I passed a gallstone. And
 although I suppose it will sound strange to some reading this in spite of all I
 have said, part of me relished the pain that came when that gallstone went. It
 was the only serious pain I
s eye is
 on the sparrow, that He sees and marks even the least of His creations. When
 I think of Mr. Jingles, and the tiny scraps of wood we found in that hole in
 the beam, I think that is so. Yet this same God sacrificed John Coffey, who
 tried only to do good in his blind way, as savagely as any Old Testament
 prophet ever sacrificed a defenseless lamb... as Abraham would have
 sacrificed his own son if actually called upon to do so. I think of John saying
 that Wharton killed the Detterick twins with their love for each other, and that
 it happens every day, all over the world. If it happens, God lets it happen, and
 when we say 
t understand,
I don

 I think of Mr. Jingles dying while my back was turned and my attention
 usurped by an unkind man whose finest emotion seemed to be a species of
 vindictive curiosity. I think of Janice, jittering away her last mindless seconds
 as I knelt with her in the rain.
 Stop it, I tried to tell John that day in his cell. Let go of my hands, I
t. Drown or explode.
 
t 
 he answered, hearing my thought and smiling at the
 idea. And the horrible thing is that I didn
t.
 I have at least one old man
s little TV tuned to the late
 news. I lie here, and if the moon is in my window, I watch it. I lie here and
 think about Brutal, and Dean, and sometimes William Wharton saying That
d want. I think of Delacroix saying Watch this Boss
 Edgecombe, I teach Mr. Jingles a new trick. I think of Elaine, standing in the
 door of the sunroom and telling Brad Dolan to leave me alone. Sometimes I
 doze and see that underpass in the rain, with John Coffey standing beneath it
 in the shadows. It
