No.
Starling, Clarice M.., good morning,
Hello.
Nothing’s wrong. I hope the call didn’t spook you.
No.
Your instructors tell me you’re doing well, top quarter of the class.
I hope so, they haven’t posted anything.
I ask them from time to time.
A job came up and I thought about you,
It’s not really a job/it’s
 more of an interesting errand. Push Berry’s stuff off that chair and sit down.
 You put down here that you want to come directly to Behavioral Science
 when you get through with the Academy.
I do.
You have a lot of forensics, but no law enforcement background. We look
 for six years, minimum.
My father was a marshal, I know the life.
What you do have is a double major in psychology
 and criminology, and how many summers working in a mental health center
 — two?
Two.
Your counselor’s license, is it current?
It’s good for two more years. I got it before you had the seminar at UVA—
 before I decided to do this.
You got stuck in the hiring freeze.
I was lucky though—I found out in time to qualify as a
 Forensic Fellow. Then I could work in the lab until the Academy had an
 opening.
You wrote to me about coming here, didn’t you, and I don’t think I
 answered—I know I didn’t. I should have.
You’ve had plenty else to do.
Do you know about VI-CAP?
I know it’s the Violent Criminal Apprehension Program. The Law
 Enforcement Bulletin says you’re working on a database, but you aren’t
 operational yet.
We’ve developed a questionnaire. It applies to all the
 known serial murderers in modern times.
There’s a section for investigators, and one for
 surviving victims, if any. The blue is for the killer to answer if he will, and
 the pink is a series of questions an examiner asks the killer, getting his
 reactions as well as his answers. It’s a lot of paperwork.
What tests have you given? Minnesota Multiphasic, ever? Rorschach?
Yes, MMPI, never Rorschach,
I’ve done Thematic Apperception
 and I’ve given children Bender-Gestalt.
Do you spook easily, Starling?
Not yet.
See, we’ve tried to interview and examine all the thirty-two known serial
 murderers we have in custody, to build up a database for psychological
 profiling in unsolved cases. Most of them went along with it—I think they’re
 driven to show off, a lot of them. Twenty-seven were willing to cooperate.
 Four on death row with appeals pending clammed up, understandably. But
 the one we want the most, we haven’t been able to get. I want you to go after
 him tomorrow in the asylum.
Who’s the subject?
The psychiatrist—Dr. Hannibal Lecter,
Hannibal the
 Cannibal,
Yes.
Yes, well— Okay, right. I’m glad of the chance, but you have to know I’m
 wondering—why me?
Mainly because you’re available,
I don’t expect him to
 cooperate. He’s already refused, but it was through an intermediary—the
 director of the hospital. I have to be able to say our qualified examiner went
 to him and asked him personally. There are reasons that don’t concern you. I
 don’t have anybody left in this section to do it.
You’re jammed—Buffalo Bill—and the things in Nevada,
You got it. It’s the old story—not enough warm bodies.
You said tomorrow—you’re in a hurry. Any bearing on a current case?
No. I wish there were.
If he balks on me, do you still want a psychological evaluation?
No. I’m waist-deep in inaccessible-patient evaluations of Dr. Lecter and
 they’re all different.
It’s ridiculous, you know;
 Lecter’s a psychiatrist and he Writes for the psychiatric journals himself—
 extraordinary stuff—but it’s never about his own little anomalies. He
 pretended to go along with the hospital director, Chilton, once in some tests
—sitting around with a blood-pressure cuff on his penis, looking at wreck
 pictures—then Lecter published first what he’d learned about Chilton and
 made a fool out of him. He responds to serious correspondence from
 psychiatric students in fields unrelated to his case, and that’s all he does. If he
 won’t talk to you, I just want straight reporting. How does he look, how does
 his cell look, what’s he doing. Local color, so to speak. Watch out for the
 press going in and coming out. Not the real press, the supermarket press.
 They love Lecter even better than Prince Andrew.
Didn’t a sleazo magazine offer him fifty thousand dollars for some recipes?
 I seem to remember that.
I’m pretty sure the National Tattler has bought somebody
 inside the hospital and they may know you’re coming after I make the
 appointment.’’
 Crawford leaned forward until he faced her at a distance of two feet. She
 watched his half-glasses blur the bags under his eyes. He had gargled recently
 with Listerine.
 .
Yes sir.
Be very careful with Hannibal Lecter. Dr. Chilton, the head of the mental
 hospital, will go over the physical procedure you use to deal with him. Don’t
 deviate from it. Do not deviate from it one iota for any reason. If Lecter talks
 to you at all, he’ll just be trying to find out about you. It’s the kind of
 curiosity that makes a snake look in a bird’s nest. We both know you have to
 back-and-forth a little in interviews, but you tell him no specifics about
 yourself. You don’t want any of your personal facts in his head. You know
 what he did to Will Graham.’’
 “I read about it when it happened.
He gutted Will with a linoleum knife when Will caught up with him. It’s a
 wonder Will didn’t die. Remember the Red Dragon? Lecter turned Francis
 Dolarhyde onto Will and his family. Will’s face looks like damn Picasso
 drew him, thanks to Lecter. He tore a nurse up in the asylum. Do your job,
 just don’t ever forget what he is.’’
 “And what’s that? Do you know?’’
 “I know he’s a monster. Beyond that, nobody can say for sure. Maybe you’ll
find out; I didn’t pick you out of a hat, Starling. You asked me a couple of
 interesting questions when I was at UVA. The Director will see your own
 report over your signature—if it’s clear and tight and organized. I decide that.
 And I will have it by 0900 Sunday. Okay, Starling, carry on in the prescribed
 manner.
the moat.
We’ve had a lot of detectives here, but I can’t remember one so attractive,
It is Miss Sterling, isn’t it?
It’s Starling, Doctor, with an a. Thank you for your time.
So the FBI is going to the girls like everything else, ha, ha.
The Bureau’s improving, Dr. Chilton. It certainly is.
Will you be in Baltimore for several days? You know, you can have just as
 good a time here as you can in Washington or New York, if you know the
 town.
I’m sure it’s a great town, but rhy instructions are to
 see Dr. Lecter and report back this afternoon.
Is there someplace .I could call you in Washington for a follow-up, later
on?’’
 “Of course. It’s kind of you to think of it. Special Agent Jack Crawford’s in
 charge of this project, and you can always reach me through him.’’
 “I see,
Give me your identification, please.
This won’t take much time. Come along.
I understood you’d brief me, Dr. Chilton,’’ Starling said.
 “I can do that while we walk.
I have a lunch in half an hour.
I’d like to leave my coat and umbrella here.
Out there,’’ Chilton said. “Give them to Alan in the outer office. He’ll put
 them away.
Thank you.
You’re more than welcome. How often do you shit?
What did you say?
Does it come out lo-o-o-o-nnng?
I’ll hang these somewhere myself.
You don’t have anything in the way—you can bend over and watch it come
 out and see if it changes color when the air hits it, do you do that? Does it
look like you have a big brown tail?
Dr. Chilton wants you in his office, right now,
No I don’t,
Put the coat in the closet, Alan, and don’t get
 it out while we’re gone. Do it I had a full-time office girl, but the cutbacks
 robbed me of her. Now the girl who let you in types three hours a day, and
 then I have Alan. Where are all the office girls, Miss Starling?
Are you armed?
No, I’m not armed.
May I see your purse and briefcase?
You saw my credentials.
And they say you’re a student. Let me see your things, please.
Lecter
It takes
 an orderly at least ten minutes a day to remove the staples from the
 publications he receives. We tried to eliminate or reduce his subscriptions,
 but he wrote a brief and the court overruled us. The volume of his personal
 mail used to be enormous. Thankfully, it’s dwindled since he’s been
 overshadowed by other creatures in the news. For a while it seemed that
 every little student doing a master’s thesis in psychology wanted something
 from Lecter in it. The medical journals still publish him, but it’s just for the
 freak value of his byline.
He did a good piece on surgical addiction in the Journal of Clinical
 Psychiatry, I thought,
You did, did you? We tried to study Lecter. We thought, ‘Here’s an
 opportunity to make a landmark study’—it’s so rare to get one alive.
One what?
A pure sociopath, that’s obviously what he is. But he’s impenetrable, much
 too sophisticated for the standard tests. And, my, does he hate us. He thinks
 I’m his nemesis. Crawford’s very clever—isn’t he?—using you on Lecter.
How do you mean, Dr. Chilton?
A young woman to ‘turn him on,’ I believe you call it. I don’t believe
 Lecter’s seen a woman in several years—he may have gotten a glimpse of
 one of the cleaning people. We generally keep women out of there. They’re
 trouble in detention.
I graduated from the University of Virginia with
 honors, Doctor. It’s not a charm school.
Then you should be able to remember the rules: Do not reach through the
 bars, do not touch the bars. You pass him nothing but soft paper. No pens, no
 pencils. He has his own felt-tipped pens some of the time. The paper you pass
 him must be free of staples, paper clips, or pins. Items are only passed to him
 through the sliding food carrier. Items come back out through the sliding food
 carrier. No exceptions. Do not accept anything he attempts to hold out to you
 through the barrier. Do you understand me?
I understand.
Lecter is never outside his cell without wearing full restraints and a
 mouthpiece,
I’m going to show you why. He was a model of
 cooperation for the first year after he was committed. Security around him
 was slightly relaxed—this was under the previous administration, you
 understand. On the afternoon of July 8,1976, he complained of chest pain and
 he was taken to the dispensary. His restraints were removed to make it easier
 to give him an electrocardiogram. When the nurse bent over him, he did this
 to her.
The
 doctors managed to save one of her eyes. Lecter was hooked up to the
 monitors the entire time. He broke her jaw to get at her tongue. His pulse
 never got over eighty-five, even when he swallowed it.”
Starling didn
I keep him in here,
Dr.
 Chilton, we really need these test results. If Dr. Lecter feels you’re his enemy
 —if he’s fixed on you, just as you’ve said—we might have more luck if I
 approached him by myself. What do you think?
That’s perfectly fine with me. You might have
 suggested that in my office. I could have sent an orderly with you and saved
 the time.
I could have suggested it there if you’d briefed me there.
I don’t expect I’11 see you again, Miss Sterling— Barney, when she’s
 finished with Lecter, ring for someone to bring her out.
Dr. Chilton told you, don’t touch the bars?
Yes, he told me.
Okay. It’s past the others, the last cell on the right. Stay toward the middle
 of the corridor as you go down, and don’t mind anything. You can take him
 his mail, get off on the right foot.
You just put it in the tray and let it roll through. If the tray’s inside, you can
 pull it back with the cord, or he can send it back. He can’t reach you where
 the tray stops outside.
I can smell your cunt.
Dr. Lecter.
My name is Clarice Starling. May I talk with you?
Good morning,
Doctor, we have a hard problem in psychological profiling. I want to ask
 you for your help.
 ‘We’ being Behavioral Science at Quantico. You’re one of Jack
 Crawford’s, I expect.
I am, yes.
May I see youircredentials?
I showed them at the… office.
You mean you showed them to Frederick Chilton, Ph.D.r
 “Yes.
Did you see his credentials?
No.
The academic ones don’t make extensive reading, I can tell you. Did you
 meet Alan? Isn’t he charming? Which of them had you rather talk with?
On the whole, I’d say Alan.
You could be a reporter Chilton let in for money. I think I’m entitled to see
 your credentials.
All right.
I can’t read it at this distance, send it through, please.
I can’t.
Because it’s hard.
Yes.
Ask Barney.
Dr. Lecter, I’11 let this come through. But
 if you don’t return it when I ask you to—if we have to bother everybody and
secure you to get it—then I’ll be upset. If you upset me, you’ll have to stay
 bundled up until I feel better toward you. Meals through the tube, dignity
 pants changed twice a day— the works. And I’ll hold your mail for a week.
 Got it?
Certainly, Barney.
A trainee? It says ‘trainee.’ Jack Crawford sent a trainee to interview me?
Dr. Lecter,
Of course.
I’m still in training at the Academy, yes,
but we’re not
 discussing the FBI—we’re talking about psychology. Can you decide for
 yourself if I’m qualified in what we talk about?
Ummmm,
Actually… that’s rather slippery of you.
 Barney, do you think Officer Starling might have a chair?
Dr. Chilton didn’t tell me anything about a chair.
What do your manners tell you, Barney?
Would you like a chair?
We could have had one, but he
 never—well, usually nobody needs to stay that long.
Yes, thank you,
Now,
what did Miggs
 say to you?
Who?
Multiple Miggs, in the cell down there. He hissed at you. What did he say?
He said, 1 can smell your cunt.’“
 “I see. I myself cannot. You use Evyan skin cream, and sometimes you wear
 L’Air du Temps, but not today. Today you are determinedly unperfumed.
 How do you feel about what Miggs said?
He’s hostile for reasons I couldn’t know. It’s too bad. He’s hostile to people,
people are hostile to him. It’s a loop.
Are you hostile to him?
I’m sorry he’s disturbed. Beyond that, he’s noise. How did you know about
 the perfume?
A puff from your bag when you got out your card. Your bag is lovely.
Thank you.
You brought your best bag, didn’t you?
Yes.
It’s much better than your shoes.
Maybe they’ll catch up.
I have no doubt of it.
Did you do the drawings on your walls, Doctor?
Do you think I called in a decorator?
The one over the sink is a European city?
It’s Florence. That’s the Palazzo Vecchio and the Duomo, seen from the
 Belvedere.
Did you do it from memory, all the detail?
Memory, Officer Starling, is what I have instead of a view.
The other one is a crucifixion? The middle cross is empty.
It
‘And what was that?”
 “His legs broken of course, just like his companion who mocked Christ. Are
 you entirely innocent of the Gospel of St. John? Look at Duccio, then—he
 paints” accurate crucifixions. How is Will Graham? How does he look?”
 “I don
You know who he is. Jack Crawford’s protege. The one before you. How
 does his face look?
I’ve never seen him.
This is called ‘cutting up a few old touches,’ Officer Starling, you don’t
 mind do you?
Better than that, we could touch up a few old cuts here. I brought—
No. No, that’s stupid and wrong. Never use wit in a segue. Listen,
 understanding a witticism and replying to it makes your subject perform a
 fast, detached scan that is inimical to mood. It is on the plank of mood that
 we proceed. You were doing fine, you’d been courteous and receptive to
 courtesy, you’d established trust by telling the embarrassing truth about
 Miggs, and then you come in with a ham-handed segue into your
 questionnaire. It won’t do.
Dr. Lecter, you’re an experienced clinical psychiatrist. Do you think I’m
 dumb enough to try to run some kind of mood scam on you? Give me,some
 credit. I’m asking you to respond to the questionnaire, and you will or you
 won’t. Would it hurt to look at the thing?
Officer Starling, have you read any of the papers coming out of Behavioral
 Science recently?
Yes.
So have I. The FBI stupidly refuses to send me the Law Enforcement
 Bulletin, but I get it from secondhand dealers and I have the News from John
 Jay, and the psychiatric journals. They’re dividing the people who practice
 serial murder into two groups—organized and disorganized. What do you
 think of that?
It’s… fundamental, they evidently—
Simplistic is the word you want. In
How would you change the classification?
I wouldn’t.
Speaking of publications, I read your pieces on surgical addiction and left
side, right-side facial displays.
Yes, they were first-rate,
I thought so, and so did Jack Crawford. He pointed them out to me. That’s
 one reason he’s anxious for you—
Crawford the Stoic is anxious? He must be busy if he’s recruiting help from
 the student body.
He is, and he wants—
Busy with Buffalo Bill.
I expect so.
No. Not ‘I expect so.’ Officer Starling, you know perfectly well it’s Buffalo
 Bill. I thought Jack Crawford might have sent you to ask me about that.
No.
Then you’re not working around to it.
No, I came because we need your—
What do you know about Buffalo Bill?
Nobody knows much.
Has everything been in the papers?
I think so. Dr. Lecter, I haven’t seen
 any confidential material on that case, my job is—
How many women has Buffalo Bill used?
The police have found five.
All flayed?
Partially, yes.
The papers have never explained his name. Do you know why he
Yes.
Tell me.
IT1 tell you if youTl look at this questionnaire.
IT1 look, that’s all. Now, why?
It started as a bad joke in Kansas City homicide.
Yes… ?
They call him Buffalo Bill because he skins his humps.
Send through the questionnaire.
Oh, Officer Starling, do you think you can
 dissect me with this blunt little tool?
No. I think you can provide some insight and advance this study.
And what possible reason could I have to do that?
Curiosity.
About what?
About why you’re here. About what happened to you.
Nothing happened to me, Officer Starling. I happened. You can’t reduce me
 to a set of influences. You’ve given up good and evil for behaviorism, Officer
 Starling. You’ve got everybody in moral dignity pants—nothing is ever
 anybody’s fault. Look at me, Officer Starling. Can you stand to say I’m evil?
 Am I evil, Officer Starling?
I think you’ve been destructive. For me it’s the same thing.
Evil’s just destructive? Then storms are evil, if it’s that simple. And we have
 fire, and then there’s hail Underwriters lump it all under ‘Acts of God.’
Deliberate—
I collect church collapses, recreationally. Did you see the recent one in
 Sicily? Marvelous! The facade fell on sixty-five grandmothers at a special
 Mass. Was that evil? If so, who did it? If He’s up there,-He just loves it,
 Officer Starling. Typhoid and swans—it all comes from the same place.
I
 can’t explain you, Doctor, but I know who can.
You’d like to quantify
 me, Officer Starling. You’re so ambitious, aren’t you? Do you know what
 you look like to me, with your good bag and your cheap shoes? You look like
a rube. You’re a well-scrubbed, hustling rube with a little taste. Your eyes are
 like cheap birth-stones—all surface shine when you stalk some little answer.
 And you’re bright behind them, aren’t you? Desperate not to be like your
 mother. Good nutrition has given you some length of bone, but you’re not
 more than one generation out of the mines, Officer Starling. Is it the West
 Virginia Starlings or the Okie Starlings, Officer? It was a toss-up between
 college and the opportunities in the Women’s Army Corps, wasn’t it? Let me
 tell you something specific about yourself, Student Starling. Back in your
 room, you have a string of gold add-a-beads and you feel an ugly little thump
 when you look at how tacky they are now, isn’t that so? All those tedious
 thank-yous, permitting all that sincere fumbling, getting all sticky once for
 every bead. Tedious. Tedious. Bo-o-o-o-r-i-ing. Being smart spoils a lot of
 things, doesn’t it? And taste isn’t kind. When you think about this
 conversation, you’ll remember the dumb animal hurt in his face when you got
 rid of him.
 “If the add-a-beads got tacky, what else will as you go along? You wonder
 don’t you, at night?
You see a lot, Dr. Lecter. I won’t deny
 anything you’ve said. But here’s the question you’re answering for me right
 now, whether you mean to or not: Are you strong enough to point that high
powered perception at yourself? It’s hard to face. I’ve found that out in the
 last few minutes. How about it? Look at yourself and write down the truth.
 What more fit or complex subject could you find? Or maybe you’re afraid of
 yourself.
You’re tough, aren’t you, Officer Starling?
Reasonably so, yes.
And you’d hate to think you were common. Wouldn’t that sting? My! Well
 you’re far from common, Officer Starling. All you have is fear of it. What are
 your add-a-beads, seven millimeter?
Seven.
Let me make a suggestion. Get some loose, drilled tiger’s eyes and string
 them alternately with the gold beads. You might want to do two-and-three or
 one-and-two, however looks best to you. The tiger’s eyes will pick up the
 color of your own eyes and the highlights in your hair. Has anyone ever sent
 you a Valentine?
Yep.
We’re already into Lent. Valentine’s Day is only a week away, hmmmm,
 are you expecting some?
You never know.
No, you never do.… I’ve been thinking about Valentine’s Day. It reminds
 me of something funny. Now that I think of it, I could make you very happy
 on Valentine’s Day, Clarice Starling.
How, Doctor Lecter?
By sending you a wonderful Valentine. I’ll have to think about it. Now
 please excuse me. Good-bye, Officer Starling.
And the study?
A census taker tried to quantify me once. I ate his liver with some fava
 beans and a big Amarone. Go back to school, little Starling.
I bit my wrist so I can diiiieeeeeeeee
 —see how it bleeds?
Officer Starling.
Officer Starling.
Officer Starling.
I would not have had that happen to you. Discourtesy is unspeakably ugly to
 me.
Please do this for
 me.
No. But I’ll make you happy that you came. I’ll give you something else. I’ll
 give you what you love the most, Clarice Starling.
What’s that, Dr. Lecter?
Advancement, of course. It works out perfectly— I’m so glad. Valentine’s
 Day made me think of it.
Look in
 Raspail’s car for your Valentines. Did you hear me? Look in Raspail s car for
 your Valentines. You’d better go now; I don’t think Miggs could manage
 again so soon, even if he is crazy, do you?
Jack Crawford.
This is Clarice Starling. I hope you weren’t eating dinner.…
… Lecter told me something about the Raspail case
 today, I’m in the office following it up. He tells me there’s something in
 Raspail’s car. I’d have to get at it through his lawyer, and since tomorrow’s
 Saturday—no school—I wanted to ask you if—
Starling, do you have any recollection of what I told you to do with the
 Lecter information?
Give you a report by 0900 Sunday.
Do that, Starling. Do just exactly that.
Yes sir.
Well God fucking shit,
You old creep. Creepo son of a bitch. Let
 Miggs squirt you and see how you like it.
What did you do today, girl?
Wheedled a crazy man with come all over me.
I wish I had time for a social life—I don’t know how you manage it, and
 school too.
How 
do 
you 
trace 
the 
current 
registration…
…
 sixtyfivesixtysixsixtysevensixtyeightsixty…
… of a car when you’ve only
 got the serial number…
seventyeightseventynineeightyeightyone…
… and the make? You don’t
 have a current tag number.
… eightynine ninety. Time.
All right, you people,
I want you to take note of that.
 Hand strength’s a major factor in steady combat shooting. Some of you
 gentlemen are worried I’ll call on you next. Your worries would be justified
 —Starling is well above average with both hands. That’s because she works
 at it. She works at it with the little squeezy things you all have access to.
 Most of you are not used to squeezing anything harder than your
zits,
Get serious. Starling, you’re not good enough either.
 I want to see that left hand over ninety before you graduate. Pair up and time
 each other— chop-chop.
 “Not you, Starling, come here. What else have you got on the car?
Just the serial number and make, that’s it. One prioT owner five years ago.
All right, listen. Where most people f—fall into error is trying to leapfrog
 through the registrations from one owner to the next. You get fouled up
 between states. I mean, cops even do that sometimes. And registrations and
 tag numbers are all the computer’s got. We’re all accustomed to using tag
 numbers or registration numbers, not vehicle serial numbers.
There’s one way it’s easy. R. L. Polk and Company, that publishes city
 directories—they also put out a list of current car registrations by make and
 consecutive serial number. It’s the only place. Car dealers steer their
 advertising with them. How’d you know to ask me?
You were ICC enforcement, I figured you’d traced a lot of vehicles.
 Thanks.
Pay me back—get that left hand up where it ought to be and let’s shame
 some of these lilyfingers.
WPOQ Plays the Oldies.
Hello, I’m calling to—
I wouldn’t care for any aluminum siding and I don’t want to live in no trailer
 court in Florida, what else you got?
Yessir, if you could help me out I’d be much obliged. I’m trying to get ahold
 of Mr. Lomax Bardwell? This is Clarice Starling?
It’s Starling somebody,
What
 do you want with Bardwell?
This is the Mid-South regional office of the Ford recall division? He’s
entitled to some warranty work on his LTD free of charge?
I’m Bardwell. I thought you was trying to sell me something on that cheap
 long distance. It’s way too late for any adjustment, I need the whole thing.
 Me and the wife was in Little Rock, pulling out of the Southland Mall there?
Yessir.
Durn rod come out through the oil pan. Oil all over everywhere and that
 Orkin truck that’s got the big bug on top of it? He hit that oil and got
 sideways.

 “Lord have mercy.
Knocked the Fotomat booth slap off the blocks and the glass fell out.
 Fotomat fella come wandering out addled. Had to keep him out of the road.
Well I’ll be. What happened to it then?
What happened to what?
The car.
I told Buddy Sipper at the wrecking yard he could have it for fifty if he’d
 come get it. I expect he’s parted it out.
Could you tell me what his telephone number is, Mr. Bardwell?
What do you want with Sipper? If anybody gets something out of it, it ought
 to be me.
I understand that, sir. I just do what they tell me till five o’clock, and they
 said find the car. Have you got that number, please?
I can’t find my phone book. It’s been gone a good while now. You know
 how it is with these grandbabies. Central ought to give it to you, it’s Sipper
 Salvage.
Much oblige, Mr. Bardwell.
Much oblige, Ardelia. I got to make one more call. If I can get done with
 that in time, I’ll catch up with you in the cafeteria, okay?
I was so in hopes you’d overcome that ghastly dialect,
Books
 are available to help you. I never use the colorful patois of my housing
 project anymore. You come talking that mushmouth, people say you eat up
 with the dumb-ass, girl.
Dr. Chilton is with the coroner and the assistant district attorney.
He’s already spoken to your supervisor and he has nothing to
 say to you. Good-bye.
Did you tell me everything,
 Starling?
How?
Swallowed his tongue sometime before daylight. Lecter suggested it to him,
 Chilton thinks. The overnight orderly heard Lecter talking softly to Miggs.
 Lecter knew a lot about Miggs. He talked to him for a little while, but the
 overnight couldn’t hear what Lecter said. Miggs was crying for a while, and
 then he stopped. Did you tell me everything, Starling?
Yes sir. Between the report and my memo, there’s everything, almost
 verbatim.
Chilton called up to complain about you.…
I told him I found your behavior
 satisfactory. Chilton’s trying to forestall a civil rights investigation.
Will there be one?
Sure, if Miggs’ family wants it. Civil Rights Division will do probably eight
 thousand this year. They’ll be glad to add Miggs to the list.
You okay?
I don’t know how to feel about it.
You don’t have to feel any particular way about it. Lecter did it to amuse
 himself. He knows they can’t really touch him for it, so why not? Chilton
 takes his books and his toilet seat for a while is all, and he doesn’t get any
 Jell-O.
Lecter asked you about me, didn’t he?
He asked if you were busy. I said yes.
That’s all? You didn’t leave out anything personal because I wouldn’t want
 to see it?
No. He said you were a Stoic, but I put that in.
Yes, you did. Nothing else?
No, I didn’t leave anything out. You don’t think I traded some kind of
 gossip, and that’s why he talked to me.
No.
I don’t know anything personal about you, and if I did I wouldn’t discuss it.
 If you’ve got a problem believing that, let’s get it straight now.
I’m satisfied. Next item.
You thought something, or—
Proceed to the next item, Starling.
Teeter
You’ve exhausted the lead?
Yes.
Why do you think the car Raspail drove was his only car?
It was the only one registered, he was single, I assumed—
Aha, hold it.
You assumed. You assumed, Starling. Look here.
If you assume when I send you on a job,
 Starling, you can make an ass out of u and me both.
Raspail collected cars, did you know that?
No, does the estate still have them?
I don’t know. Do you think you could manage to find out?
Yes, I can.
Where would you start?
His executor.
A lawyer in Baltimore, a Chinese, I seem to remember,
Everett Yow,
He’s in the Baltimore phone book.
Have you given any thought to the question of a warrant to search Raspail’s
 car?
Since Raspail is deceased and not
 suspected of anything, if we have permission of his executor to search the
 car, then it is a valid search, and the fruit admissible evidence in other matters
 at law,
Precisely,
Tell you what: 111 advise the Baltimore field
 office you’ll be up there. Saturday, Starling, on your own time. Go feel the
 fruit, if there is any.
frankly disclose at once
It doesn’t appear to have been opened since I was here five years ago,
You see the impression of my notary seal here in the plastic. I had no
 idea at the time that the relatives would be so contentious and would drag out
 the probate for so many years.
Mr. Raspail had an office-studio in the city, which I closed down to save the
 estate from paying rent.
I had the furnishings brought here and
stored them with Raspail’s car and other things that were already here. We
 brought an upright piano, books and music, a bed, I think.
The locks may be frozen. At least this one’s very stiff.
Want to rest a second in your car, Mr. Yow? Why don’t you warm up for a
 few minutes and I’ll give this a try. Take the umbrella, it’s only a drizzle
 now.
We might return next week, with my son, or with some workmen,
I would like very much to go home soon.
Mr. Yow, I’ll hurry. Do you have a bumper jack in this
 car?
It smells like mice in there.
I was assured they used rodent poison
 here. I believe it is specified in the contract. Rodents are almost unknown,
 they said. But I hear them, do you?
I hear them.
You’re going in there, Officer Starling?’’ “I have to take a look, Mr. Yow.
May I suggest you tie your cuffs snugly
 around your ankles? To prevent mouse intrusion.’’
 “Thank you, sir, that’s a very good idea. Mr. Yow, if the door should come
 down, ha ha, or something else should occur, would you be kind enough to
 call this number? It’s our Baltimore field office. They know I’m here with
 you right now, and they’ll be alarmed if they don’t hear from me in a little
 while, do you follow me?’’
 “Yes, of course. Absolutely, I do.’’ He gave her the key to the Packard.
 Starling put the rubber mat on the wet ground in front of the door and lay
 down on it, her hand cupping a pack of plastic evidence bags over the lens of
 her camera and her cuffs tied snugly with Yow’s handkerchief and her own.
 A mist of rain fell in her face, and the smell of mold and mice was strong in
her nose. What occurred to Starling was, absurdly, Latin.
 Written on the blackboard by her forensics instructor on her first day in
 training, it was the motto of the Roman physician: Primum non nocere. First
 do no harm.
 He didn’t say that in a garage full of fucking mice.
 And suddenly her father’s voice, speaking to her with his hand on her
 brother’s shoulder, “If you can’t play without squawling, Clarice, go on to the
 house.
Okay, Miss Starling?
Okay,
So you fouitd the piano, Officer Starling,
That wasn’t me.
Oh.
Did you cover the car with this rug, Mr. Yow?
I found it that way and I never uncovered it,
I
 can’t deal with a dusty rug. That’s the way Raspail had it. I just made sure the
 car was there. My movers put the piano against the wall and covered it and
 stacked more boxes beside the car and left. I was paying them by the hour.
 The boxes are sheet music and books, mostly.
Thanks a lot, Dr. Lecter.
sbeeninthatdoorinfiveyears—easy, easy, hold it baby.
 “Oh, Mr. Yow. Say, Mr. Yow?”
 “Yes, Officer Starling?”
 “Mr. Yow, looks like somebody
Oh my. Maybe you better come out, Miss Starling.
Not quite yet, Mr. Yow. Just wait there, if you will, please.
 want to destroy evidence. I do want some help. But most of all I don
Cool one
All right, Mr. Yow.
Yes. Do we have to call the police, or are you sufficient, Officer Starling?
I’ve got to find that out. Just wait right there, please.
‘Well, Toto,” she said, “we
Jonetta Johnson, WPIK news, did you report a homicide?
I’m a federal
 officer, this is a crime scene. I have to secure it until the Baltimore authorities
 —
‘Hold it,” Starling said. “I
Okay, Harry.
Ah, officer, we want to cooperate in
 every way. Frankly, this crew costs money and I just want to know whether
 to even keep them here until the other authorities arrive. Will you tell me if
 there’s a body in there? Camera’s off, just between us. Tell me and we’ll
 wait. We’ll be good, I promise. How about it?
I’d wait if I were you,
Thanks, you won’t be sorry,
Look, I’ve got some
 information on Split City Mini-Storage that you could probably use. Would
 you shine your light on the clipboard? Let’s see if I can find it here.
WEYE mobile unit just turned in at the gate, Joney,
Let’s see if I can find it here, Officer, here it is. There was a scandal about
 two years ago when they tried to prove this place was trucking and storing—
 was it fireworks?
Hey!
You can’t go in there. Hey! I told you not to do that.
We won’t
 touch anything. We’re pros, you don’t have to worry. The cops will let us in
 anyway. It’s all right, honey.
Give me your attention.
You don’t listen, do you? Come out of
 there. Now. You’re one second from arrest for obstruction of justice.
Take it easy,
Hands off and back off, buster.
Dr. Lecter?
Dr. Lecter, we both know what this is. They think you’ll talk to me.
Over the Sea to Skye.
It was strange going in there. Sometime I
Thanks,
Why don’t you ask me about Buffalo Bill?
Do you know something about him?
I might if I saw the case.
I don’t have that case,
You won’t have this one, either, when they’re through using you.
I know.
You could get the files on Buffalo Bill. The reports and the pictures. I’d like
 to see it.
Dr. Lecter, you started this. Now please tell me about the
 person in the Packard.
You found an entire person? Odd. I only saw a head. Where do you suppose
 the rest came from?
All right. Whose head was it?
What can you tell?
They’ve only done the preliminary stuff. White male, about twenty-seven,
 both American and European dentistry. Who was he?
Raspail’s lover. Raspail, of the gluey flute.
What were the circumstances—how did he die?
Circumlocution, Officer Starling?
No, I’ll ask it later.
Let me save you some time. I didn’t do it; Raspail did. Raspail liked sailors.
 This was a Scandinavian one named Klaus something. Raspail never told me
 the last name.
Klaus was off a Swedish boat in San Diego. Raspail was out there teaching
 for a summer at the conservatory. He went berserk over the young man. The
 Swede saw a good thing and jumped his boat. They bought some kind of
 awful camper and sylphed through the woods naked. Raspail said the young
 man was unfaithful and he strangled him.
Raspail told you this?
Oh yes, under the confidential seal of therapy sessions. I think it was a lie.
 Raspail always embellished the facts. He wanted to seem dangerous and
romantic. The Swede probably died in some banal erotic asphyxia
 transaction. Raspail was too flabby and weak to have strangled him. Notice
 how closely Klaus was trimmed under the jaw? Probably to remove a high
 ligature mark from hanging.
I see.
Raspail’s dream of happiness was ruined. He put Klaus’ head in a bowling
 bag and came back East.
What did he do with the rest?
Buried it in the hills.
He showed you the head in the car?
Oh yes, in the course of therapy he came to feel he could tell me anything.
 He went out to sit with Klaus quite often and showed him the Valentines.
And then Raspail himself… died. Why?
Frankly, I got sick and tired of his whining. Best thing for him, really.
 Therapy wasn’t going anywhere. I expect most psychiatrists have a patient or
 two they’d like to refer to me. I’ve never discussed this before, and now I’m
 getting bored with it.
And your dinner for the orchestra officials.
Haven’t you ever had people coming over and no time to shop? You have to
 make do with what’s in the fridge, Clarice. May I call you Clarice?
Yes. I think I’ll just call you—
Dr. Lecter—that seems most appropriate to your age and station,
Yes.
How did you feel when you went into the garage?
Apprehensive.
Why?
Mice and insects.
Do you have something you use when you want to get up your nerve?
Nothing I know of that works, except wanting what I’m after.
Do memories or tableaux occur to you then, whether you try for them or
not?
Maybe. I haven’t thought about it.
Things from your early life.
I’ll have to watch and see.
How did you feel when you heard about my late neighbor, Miggs? You
 haven’t asked me about it.
I was getting to it.
Weren’t you glad when you heard?
No.
Were you sad?
No. Did you talk him into it?
Are you asking me, Officer Starling, if I
 suborned Mr. Miggs’ felony suicide? Don’t be silly. It has a certain pleasant
 symmetry, though, his swallowing that offensive tongue, don’t you agree?
No.
Officer Starling, that was a lie. The first one you’ve told me. A triste
 occasion, Truman would say.
President Truman?
Never mind. Why do you think I helped you?
I don’t know.
Jack Crawford likes you, doesn’t he?
I don’t know.
That’s probably untrue. Would you like for him to like you? Tell me, do you
 feel an urge to please him and does it worry you? Are you wary of your urge
 to please him?
Everyone wants to be liked, Dr. Lecter.
Not everyone. Do you think Jack Crawford wants you sexually? I’m sure
 he’s very frustrated now. Do you think he visualizes… scenarios,
 transactions… fucking with you?
That’s not a matter of curiosity to me, Dr. Lecter, and it’s the sort of thing
 Miggs would ask.
Not anymore.
Did you suggest to him that he swallow his tongue?
Your interrogative case often has that proper subjunctive in it. With your
 accent, it stinks of the lamp. Crawford clearly likes you and believes you
 competent. Surely the odd confluence of events hasn’t escaped you, Clarice
 —you’ve had Crawford’s help and you’ve had mine. You say you don’t
 know why Crawford helps you—do you know why I did?
No, tell me.
Do you think it’s because I like to look at you and think about eating you up
 —about how you would taste?
Is that it?
No. I want something Crawford can give me and I want to trade him for it.
 But he won’t come to see me. He won’t ask for my help with Buffalb Bill,
 even though he knows it means more young women will die.
I can’t believe that, Dr. Lecter.
I only want something very simple, and he could get it.
I’ve been in this room eight years, Clarice. I know that they will never, ever
 let me out while I’m alive. What I want is a view. I want a window where I
 can see a tree, or even water.
Has your attorney petitioned—
Chilton put that television in the hall, set to a religious channel. As soon as
 you leave the orderly will turn the sound back up, and my attorney can’t stop
 it, the way the court is inclined toward me now. I want to be in a federal
 institution and I want my books back and a view. I’ll give good value for it.
 Crawford could do that. Ask him.
I can tell him what you’ve said.
He’ll ignore it. And Buffalo Bill will go on and on. Wait until he scalps one
 and see how you like it. Ummmm… I’ll tell you one thing about Buffalo Bill
 without ever seeing the case, and years from now when they catch him, if
 they ever do, you’ll see that I was right and I could have helped. I could have
 saved lives. Clarice?
Yes?
Buffalo Bill has a two-story house,
See if you can get that window open if the
 smoke bothers you.
Sex-Crime Bedroom
Anytown Bank
Starling of the FBI
Federal Agent Starling
Starling of the FBI
eerie bonding with a
 man authorities have branded… a monster!
Melvin Pelvis,
Clarice Starling.
Clarice Starling?
Yes,
Saddle up, Starling. Where’s your field gear?
My room—C Wing.
You go with Jack Crawford today. Take stuff for overnight. You may be
 back, but take it.
Where?
Some duck hunters in West Virginia found a body in the Elk River around
 daylight. In a Buffalo Bill-type situation. Deputies are bringing it out. It’s real
 boonies, and Jack’s not inclined to wait on those guys for details.
He needs somebody to help him that can
 print a floater, among other things. You were a grunt in the lab—you can do
 that, right?
Yeee, let me check the stuff.
I need the one-to-one Polaroid, the CU-5, Mr. Brigham, and film packs and
 batteries for it,
From property? You got it.
You don’t have a duty piece yet, right?
No.
You gotta have full kit. This is the rig you’ve been wearing on the range.
 The gun is my own. It’s the same K-frame Smith you’re trained with, but the
 action’s cleaned up. Dry-fire it in your room tonight when you get the
chance. I’ll be in a car behind C Wing in ten minutes flat with the camera.
 Listen, there’s no head in the Blue Canoe. Go to the bathroom while you’ve
 got the chance is my advice. Chop-chop, Starling.
Is it—
That’s okay,
The butt prints
 against your jacket a little if somebody’s looking for it, but it’s okay for
 now.
One good thing about the range, Starling, is there’s no
 politics out there.
No?
You were right to secure that garage up at Baltimore there. You worried
 about the TV?
Should I be?
We’re talking just us, right?
Right.
Taking you along today, Jack’s showing confidence in you where nobody
 can miss it,
In case, say, somebody in the Office of Professional
 Responsibility has your jacket in front of him and his bowels in an uproar,
 understand what I’m telling you?
Ummm.
Crawford’s a stand-up guy. He made it clear where it matters that you had to
 secure the scene. He let you go in there bare—that is, bare of all your visible
 symbols of authority, and he said that too
I really don’t.
He’s got a lot on his mind besides Buffalo Bill. His wife Bella’s real sick.
 She’s… in a terminal situation. He’s keeping her at home. If it wasn’t for
 Buffalo Bill, he’d have taken compassionate leave.
I didn’t know that.
It
I’m glad you told me.
I’ve got a couple of
 important speeches I give at the end of the firearms course, Starling, try not
 to miss them.
I will.
Listen, what I teach is something you probably won’t ever have to do. I
 hope you won’t. But you’ve got some aptitude, Starling. If you have to shoot,
 you can shoot. Do your exercises.
Right.
Don’t ever put it in your purse.
Right.
Pull it a few times in your room at night. Stay so you can find it.
I will.
That wouldn’t be the Blue Canoe,
Yep.
It’s little and it’s old.
It is old,
Drug Enforcement seized it in Florida a
long time ago, when it flopped in the ‘Glades. Mechanically sound now,
 though. I hope Gramm and Rudman don’t find out we’re using it—we’re
 supposed to ride the bus.
Bless you, Starling.
Thanks… thank you, Mr. Brigham.
Take a pew and read,
Buff alo Bill
specifically genital
I’m hot, are you hot?
Bobby, it’s too damned hot in here,
Elk River, about six miles below U.S. ‘9,
We’re lucky on this one.
 The body was snagged on a trotline—a fishing line set out in the river. They
 don’t think she’s been in the water all that long. They’re bringing her to
 Potter, the county seat. I want to know who she is in a hurry so we can sweep
 for witnesses to the abduction. We’ll send the prints back on a land line as
 soon as we get ‘em.
Jimmy Price says you can do a floater.
Actually, I never had an entire floater,
I fingerprinted the
 hands Mr. Price got in his mail every day. A good many of them were from
 floaters, though.
That Jimmy,
What is it they call that job…
The position is called ‘lab wretch,’ or some people prefer ‘Igor’—that’s
 what’s printed on the rubber apron they give you.
That’s it.
They tell you to pretend you’re dissecting a frog.
I see—
Then they bring you a package from UPS. They’re all watching—some of
 them hurry back from coffee, hoping you’ll barf. I can print a floater very
 well. In fact—
Good, now look at this. His first victim that we know of was found in the
 Blackwater River in Missouri, outside of Lone Jack, last June. The Bimmel
 girl, she’d been reported missing in Belvedere, Ohio, on April 15, two
 months before. We couldn’t tell a lot about it—it took another three months
 just to get her identified. The next one he grabbed in Chicago the third week
 in April. She was found in the Wabash in downtown Lafayette, Indiana, just
 ten days after she was taken, so we could tell what had happened to her. Next
 we’ve got a white female, early twenties, dumped in the Rolling Fork near 1
65, about thirty-eight miles south of Louisville, Kentucky. She’s never been
 identified. And the Varner woman, grabbed in Evansville, Indiana, and
 dropped in the Embarras just below Interstate ‘0 in eastern Illinois.
 .
75, that was this Kittridge girl from
 Pittsburgh—here
If you trace heaviest-traffic routes backward from the dump sites, do they
 converge at all?
No.
What if you… postulate… that he’s making a dropoff and a new abduction
 on the same trip?
He’d drop off the body first, wouldn’t he, in case he got in trouble
 grabbing the next one? Then, if he was caught grabbing somebody, he might
 get off for assault, plead it down to zip if he didn’t have a body in his car. So
 how about drawing vectors backward from each abduction site through the
 previous dump site? You’ve tried it.
That’s a good idea, but he had it too. If he is doing both things in one trip,
 he’s zigging around. We’ve run computer simulations, first with him
westbound on the Interstates, then eastbound, then various combinations with
 the best dates we can put on the dumps and abductions. You put it in the
 computer and smoke comes out. He lives in the East, it tells us. He’s not in a
 moon cycle, it tells us. No convention dates in the cities correlate. Nothing
 but feathers. No, he’s seen us coming, Starling.
You think he’s too careful to be a suicide.
Definitely too careful. He’s found out how to have a
 meaningful relationship now, and he wants to do it a lot. I’m not getting my
 hopes up for a suicide.
Couple of things, Starling. I look for first-rate fo-rensics from you, but I
 need more than that. You don’t say much, and that’s okay, neither do I. But
 don’t ever feel you’ve got to have a new fact to tell me before you can bring
 something up. There aren’t any silly questions. You’ll see things that I won’t,
 and I want to know what they are. Maybe you’ve got a knack for this. All of a
 sudden we’ve got this chance to see if you do.
You think about him enough, you see where he’s been, you get a feel for
 him,
You don’t even dislike him all the time, hard as
 that is to believe. Then, if you’re lucky, out of all the stuff you know, part of
 it plucks at you, tries to get ydur attention. Always tell me when something
 plucks, Starling.
 “Listen to me, a crime is confusing enough without the investigation mixing
 it up. Don’t let a herd of policemen confuse you. Live right behind your eyes.
 Listen to yourself. Keep the crime separate from what’s going on around you
 now. Don’t try to impose any pattern or symmetry on this guy. Stay open and
 let him show you.
 “One other thing: an investigation like this is a zoo. It’s spread out over a lot
 of jurisdictions, and a few are run by losers. We have to get along with them
so they won’t hold out on us. We’re going to Potter, West Virginia. I don’t
 know about these people we’re going to. They may be fine or they may think
 we’re the revenuers.
Final approach, Jack. You staying back there?
Yeah,
School’s out, Starling.
ma’am.
She don’t look half as good as she thinks
 she does.
Well, if she just thinks she looks pretty got-damned good, I’d have to agree
 with her, myself,
I’d put her on like a Mark
 Five gas mask.
I’d just as soon have a big watermelon, if it was cold,
Romeos.
I appreciate your letting us know so fast, Sheriff.
It was somebody from the district
 attorney’s office called you,
I know the sheriff didn’t call you—
Sheriff Perkins is on a guided tour of Hawaii at the present time with Mrs.
 Perkins. I spoke to him on long distance this morning at eight o’clock, that’s
 three A.M., Hawaii time. He’ll get back to me later in the day, but he told me
 Job One is to find out if this is one of our local girls. It could be something
 that outside elements has just dumped on us. We’ll tend to that before we do
 anything else. We’ve had ‘em haul bodies here all the way from Phe-nix City,
 Alabama.
That’s where we can help you, Sheriff. If—
I’ve been on the phone with the field services commander of the state
 troopers in Charleston. He’s sending some officers from the Criminal
 Investigation Section—what’s known as the CIS. They’ll give us all the
 backup we need.
We’ll get around to you just
 as soon as we can, and extend you ever courtesy, work with you ever way we
 can, but right now—
Sheriff, this kind of a sex crime has some aspects that I’d rather say to you
 just between us men, you understand what I mean?
Crawford come on and get rid of them?
 The wallpaper billowed in a draft, billowed inward as the doctor turned on
 the big, dusty vent fan.
 Clarice Starling, standing at the sink, needed now a prototype of courage
 more apt and powerful than any Marine parachute jump. The image came to
 her, and helped her, but it pierced her too:
 Her mother, standing at the sink, washing blood out of her father
We’11 be all right, Clarice. Tell
 your brothers and sister to wash up and come to the table. We need to talk
 and then we’ll fix our supper. “
 Starling took off her scarf and tied it over her hair like a mountain midwife.
 She took a pair of surgical gloves out of her kit. When she opened her mouth
 for the first time in Potter, her voice had more than its normal twang and the
 force of it brought Crawford to the door to listen. “Gentlemen. Gentlemen!
 You officers and gentlemen! Listen here a minute. Please. Now let me take
 care of her.
There’s things we need to do for her. You brought her this far, and I
 know her folks would thank you if they could. Now please go on out and let
 me take care of her.
Come on, Jess. Let’s go out in the yard.
They should have put paper bags on her hands.
I’ll bag them
 when we’re through.
Dr. Lecter said he’d start scalping,
Get her
 ears with the Polaroid,
What do you see, Starling?
Well, she’s not a local—her ears are pierced three times each, and she wore
 glitter polish. Looks like town to me. She’s got maybe two weeks or so hair
growth on her legs. And see how soft it’s grown in? I think she got her legs
 waxed. Armpits too. Look how she bleached the fuzz on her upper lip. She
 was pretty careful about herself, but she hasn’t been able to take care of it for
 a while.
What about the wound?
I don’t know,
I would have said an exit gunshot wound,
 except that looks like part of an abrasion collar and a muzzle stamp at the top
 there.
Good, Starling. It’s a contact entrance wound over the sternum. The
 explosion gases expand between the bone and the skin and blow out the star
 around the hole.
Wrongful death,
I’ve got to get
 in there for at least part of this service. The family always expects me to go
 the last mile. Lamar will be in here to help you as soon as he finishes playing
 the musical offering. I take you at your word on preserving evidence for the
 pathologist at Claxton, Mr. Crawford.
She’s got two nails broken off here on the left hand,
They’re broken back up in the quick and it looks like dirt
 or some hard particles driven up under some of the others. Can we take
 evidence?
Take samples of grit, take a couple of flakes of polish,
We’ll tell ‘em after we get the results.
You must of been a manicurist one
 time.
You want to print her facedown, Starling?
Be easier.
Let’s do teeth first, and then Lamar can help us turn her over.
Just pictures, or a chart?
Just pictures,
A chart can throw you off without X rays.
 We can eliminate a couple of missing women with the pictures.
She’s got something in her throat,
Give me the flashlight.
When a body comes out of the water, a lot of times there’s like leaves and
 things in the mouth,
What is it, some kind of seed pod?
Nawsir, that’s a bug cocoon,
You might want the county agent to look at that,
Measure too,
He cut the girl from Akron when he slit her
clothes off, not much more than a scratch, but it matched the cut up the back
 of her blouse when they found it beside the road. This is something new,
 though. I haven’t seen this.
Looks like a burn across the back of her calf,
Old people gets those a lot,
What?
 SAID OLD PEOPLE GETS THOSE A LOT “
 “I heard you fine, I want you to explain it. What about old people?”
 “Old people pass away with a heating pad on them, and when they
We’ll ask the pathologist at Claxton to test it, and see if it’s postmortem,
Car muffler, most likely,
What?
CAR MUFFL—C8LT muffler. One time Billy Petrie got shot to death and
 they dumped him in the trunk of his car? His wife drove the car around two
 or three days looking for him. When they brought him in here, the muffler
 had got hot under the car trunk and burned him just like that, only across his
 hip.
I can’t put groceries in the trunk of my car for it melting
 the ice cream.
That’s a good thought, Lamar, I wish you worked for me,
Do you know the fellows that found her in the river?
Jabbo Franklin and his brother, Bubba.
What do they do?
Fight at the Moose, make fun of people that’s not bothering them—someone
 just comes in the Moose after a simple drink, worn out from looking at the
 bereaved all day, and it’s ‘Set down there, Lamar, and play “Filipino Baby.

 Make a person play ‘Filipino Baby
Well, make up some damn words if you
 don
and make the damn thing rhyme this time.
Well need serotonin tests on the fishhook punctures,
I’m
 sending the pathologist a note.
Them hooks are too close together,
What did you say?
The Franklins was running a trotline with the hooks too close together. It’s a
 violation. That’s prob’ly why they didn’t call it in until this morning.
The sheriff said they were duck hunters.
I expect they did tell him that,
They’ll tell you they wrestled
 Duke Keomuka in Honolulu one time too, tag team with Satellite Monroe.
 You can believe that too, if you feel like it. Grab a croaker sack and they’ll
 take you on a snipe hunt too, if you favor snipe. Give you a glass of billiards
 with it.
What do you think happened, Lamar?
The Franklins was running this trotline, it’s their trotline with these unlawful
 hooks, and they was pulling it up to see if they had any fish.
Why do you think so?
This lady’s not near ready to float.
No.
Then if they hadna been pulling up on the trotline they never would have
 found her. They prob’ly went off scared and finally called in. I expect you’ll
 want the game warden in on this.
I expect so,
Lots of times they’ve got a crank telephone behind the seat in their
 Ramcharger, that’s a big fine right there, if you don’t have to go to the pen.
To telephone fish with,
Stun the fish with electric current
 when you hang the wires in the water and turn the crank. They come to the
 top and you just dip ‘em out.
Right,
are you from around here?
They do it lots of places,
No, thanks,
I don’t believe I’l1 have one.
 “No, hold it under your neck there,
and on that little bump at
 the back of your head. Cold’ll make you feel better. It does me.
Load it, Starling, you’ve got the nimble fingers.
Dorothy, is everybody on? Okay, gentlemen, we’ll turn it
 down to one-twenty to keep it nice and sharp—check one-twenty,
 everybody? Atlanta, how about it? Okay, give me the picture wire… now.
Drop me at the lab, Jeff,
Then I want you to
 wait for Officer Starling at the Smithsonian. She’ll go on from there to
 Quantico.
Yes sir.
I’ll post the hotline and the Latent Descriptor Index when I take your prints
 up to ID,
You draft me an insert for the file. An insert, not a
 302—do you know how to do it?
I know how.
Say I’m the Index, tell me what’s new.
White female, late teens or early twenties, shot to death, lower torso and
 thighs flayed—
Starling, the Index already knows he kills young white women and skins
 their torsos—use ‘skinned,’ by the way, ‘flayed’ is an uncommon term
 another officer might not use, and you can’t be sure the damned thing will
 read a synonym. It already knows he dumps them in rivers. It doesn’t know
 what’s new here. What’s new here, Starling?
This is the sixth victim, the first one scalped, the first one with triangular
 patches taken from the back of the shoulders, the first one shot in the chest,
 the first one with a cocoon in her throat.
You forgot broken fingernails.
No sir, she’s the second one with broken fingernails.
You’re right. Listen, in your insert for the file, note that the cocoon is
 confidential. We’ll use it to eliminate false confessions.
I’m wondering if he’s done that before—placed a cocoon or an insect,
It would be easy to miss in an autopsy, especially with a
 floater. You know, the medical examiner sees an obvious cause of death, it’s
 hot in there, and they want to get through… can we check back on that?
If we have to. You can count on the pathologists to say they didn’t miss
 anything, naturally. The Cincinnati Jane Doe’s still in the freezer out there.
 I’ll ask them to look at her, but the other four are in the ground. Exhumation
 orders stir people up. We had to do it with four patients who passed away
 under Dr. Lecter’s care, just to make sure what killed them. Let me tell you,
 it’s a lot of trouble and it upsets the relatives. I’ll do it if I have to, but we’ll
 see what you find out at the Smithsonian before I decide.
Scalping… that’s rare, isn’t it?
Uncommon, yes,
But Dr. Lecter said Buffalo Bill would do it. How did he know that?
He didn’t know it.
He said it, though.
It’s not a big surprise, Starling. I wasn’t surprised to see that. I should have
 said that it was rare until the Mengel case, remember that? Scalped the
 woman? There were two or three copycats after that. The papers, when they
 were playing around with the Buffalo Bill tag, they emphasized more than
 once that this killer doesn’t take scalps. It’s no surprise after that—he
 probably follows his press. Lecter was guessing. He didn’t say when it would
 happen, so he could never be wrong. If we caught Bill and there was no
 scalping, Lecter could say we got him just before he did it.
Dr. Lecter also said Buffalo Bill lives in a two-story house. We never got
 into that. Why do you suppose he said it?
That’s not a guess. He’s very likely right, and he could have told you why,
 but he wanted to tease you with it. It’s the only weakness I ever saw in him—
 he has to look smart, smarter than anybody. He’s been doing it for years.
You said ask if I don’t know—well, I have to ask you to explain that.
Okay, two of the victims were hanged, right? High ligature marks, cervical
 displacement, definite hanging. As Dr. Lecter knows from personal
 experience, Starling, it’s very hard for one person to hang another against his
 will. People hang themselves from doorknobs all the time. They hang
themselves sitting down, it’s easy. But it’s hard to hang somebody else—
 even when they’re bound up, they manage to get their feet under them, if
 there’s any support to find with their feet. A ladder’s threatening. Victims
 won’t climb it blindfolded and they sure won’t climb it if they can see the
 noose. The way it’s done is in a stairwell. Stairs are familiar. Tell them
 you’re taking them up to use the bathroom, whatever, walk them up with a
 hood on, slip the noose on, and boot them off the top step with the rope
 fastened to the landing railing. It’s the only good way in a house. Fellow in
 California popularized it. If Bill didn’t have a stairwell, he’d kill them
 another way. Now give me those names, the senior deputy from Potter and
 the state police guy, the ranking officer.
Good,
When you’re posting a hotline, Starling, always
 credit the cops by name. They hear their own names, they get more friendly
 to the hotline. Fame helps them remember to call us if they get something.
 What does the burn on her leg say to you?
Depends if it’s postmortem.
If it is?
Then he
Why?
Because the burn’s across the back of her calf.
Jeff, you can let me out here,
Right here, don’t go
 underneath. Stay in the car, Jeff, just pop the trunk. Come show me,
 Starling.
He hauled the body in something big enough for the body to be stretched out
 on its back,
That’s the only way the back of her calf would
 rest on the floor over the exhaust pipe. In a car trunk like this, she’d be curled
 up on her side and—
Yeah, that’s how I see it,
When I told that deputy he and I shouldn’t talk in front of a woman, that
 burned you, didn’t it?
Sure.
It was just smoke. I wanted to get him by himself.
I know that.
Okay.
It matters, Mr. Crawford.
Those cops know who you are,
They look at you to see how to
 act.
Duly noted, Starling. Now get on with the bug.
Yes sir.
Thousands of people in these boxes,
Forty thousand
 specimens.
Thirty million insects—and the spiders on top of that. Don’t lump the
 spiders in with the insects,
Spider people jump all over
 you about that. There, the office that’s lit. Don’t try to come out by yourself.
 If they don’t say they’ll bring you down, call me at this extension, it’s the
 guard office. I’ll come get you.
Time, Pilch!
Let’s go here. Time!
Time, Roden,
If the beetle just cuts across the corner, is time up then?
Of course time’s up then.
Of course it’s up then. How do you play? Do you make him cross the whole
 board? Who do you play against, a sloth?
I have the specimen Special Agent Crawford called about.
I can’t imagine why we didn’t hear your siren,
We’re
 waiting all night here to identify a hug for the FBI. Bugs’re all we do.
 Nobody said anything about Special Agent Crawford’s specimen. He should
 show his specimen privately to his family doctor. Time, Pilch!
I’d love to catch your whole routine another time,
but this is
 urgent, so let’s do it now. Time, Pilch.
I’m Noble Pilcher,
That’s Albert Roden. You need an insect
 identified? We’re happy to help you.
You are… ?
Clarice Starling.
Let’s see what you’ve got.
Where did you find it? Did you kill it with your gun?
 Did you see its mommy?
Shhh,
Tell us where you found it. Was it attached to anything
 —a twig or a leaf—or was it in the soil?
I see.
Nobody’s talked to you.
The Chairman asked us to stay late and identify a bug for the FBI,
Told us,
Told us to stay late.
We do it all the time for Customs and the Department of Agriculture,
But not in the middle of the night,
I need to tell you a couple of things involving a criminal case,
I’m allowed to do that if you’ll keep it in confidence until the case is
 resolved. It’s important. It means some lives, and I’m not just saying that. Dr.
 Roden, can you tell me seriously that you’ll respect a confidence?
I’m not a doctor. Do I have to sign anything?
Not if your word’s any good. You’ll have to sign for the specimen if you
 need to keep it, that’s all.
Of course I’ll help you. I’m not uncaring.
Dr. Pilcher?
That’s true,
He’s not uncaring.
Confidence?
I won’t tell.
Pilch isn’t a doctor yet either,
We’re on an equal educational
 footing. But notice how he allowed you to call him that.
Give us all the details. What might seem irrelevant to you could
 be vital information to an expert.
This insect was found lodged behind the soft palate of a murder victim. I
 don’t know how it got there. Her body was in the Elk River in West Virginia,
 and she hadn’t been dead more than a few days.
It’s Buffalo Bill, I heard it on the radio,
You didn’t hear about the insect on the radio, did you?
No, but they said Elk River—are you coming in from that today, is that why
 you’re so late?
Yes,
You must be tired, do you want some coffee?
No, thank you.
Water?
No.
A Coke?
I don’t believe so. We want to know where this woman was held captive and
 where she was killed. We’re hoping this bug has some specialized habitat, or
 it’s limited in range, you know, or it only sleeps on some kind of tree—we
 want to know where this insect is from. I’m asking for your confidence
 because—if the perpetrator put the insect there deliberately—then only he
 would know that fact and we could use it to eliminate false confessions and
 save time. He’s killed six at least. Time’s eating us up.
Do you think he’s holding another woman right this minute, while we’re
 looking at his bug?
I don ‘know.
I don’t know,
He’ll do it again as soon as he can.
So we’ll do this as soon as we can,
Don’t worry, we’re good
 at this. You couldn’t be in better hands.
In the first place, it’s not anything that would normally infest a body
 outdoors, and it wouldn’t be in the water except by accident.
I
 don’t know how familiar you are with insects or how much you want to
hear.
Let’s say I don’t know diddly. I want you to tell me the whole thing.
Okay, this is a pupa, an immature insect, in a chrysalis—that’s the cocoon
 that holds it while it transforms itself from a larva into an adult,
Obtect pupa, Pilch?
Yeah, I think so. You want to pull down Chu on the immature insects?
 Okay, this is the pupal stage of a large insect. Most of the more advanced
 insects have a pupal stage. A lot of them spend the winter this way.
Book or look, Pilch?
I’ll look.
Here we go: No distinct
 respiratory organs on the dorsocephalic region, spiracles on the mesothorax
 and some abdominals, let’s start with that.
Ummhumm,
Functional
 mandibles?
Nope.
Paired galeae of maxillae on the ventro meson?
Yep, yep.
Where are the antennae?
Adjacent to the mesal margin of the wings. Two pairs of wings, the inside
 pair are completely covered up. Only the bottom three abdominal segments
 are free. Little pointy cremaster—I’d say Lepidoptera.
That’s what it says here,
It’s the family that includes the butterflies and moths. Covers a lot of
 territory.
It’s gonna be tough if the wings are soaked. I’ll pull the references.
I guess there’s no way I can keep you from talking about me while I’m
 gone.
I guess not.
Roden’s all right,
I’m sure he is.
Are you now.
We were undergraduates together,
working and glomming any kind of fellowship we could. He got one where
 he had to sit down in a coal mine waiting for proton decay. He just stayed in
 the dark too long. He’s all right. Just don’t mention proton decay.’’
 “I’l1 try to talk around it.
It’s a big family, Lepidoptera.
 Maybe thirty thousand butterflies and a hundred thirty thousand moths. I’d
 like to take it out of the chrysalis—111 have to if we’re going to narrow it
 down.
Okay. Can you do it in one piece?
I think so. See, this one had started out on its own power before it died. It
 had started an irregular fracture in the chrysalis right here. This may take a
 little while.
Ready?
Okay, the prothoracic femur is concealed.
What about pilifers?
No pilifers,
Would you turn out the light, Officer Starling?
Owlet.
Probably, but which one?
Give us the lights, please. It’s a
 Noctuid, Officer Starling—a night moth. How many Noctuids are there,
 Roden?
Twenty-six hundred and… about twenty-six hundred have been described.
Not many this big, though. Okay, let’s see you shine, my man.
We have to go to chaetaxy now—studying the skin of the insect to narrow it
 down to one species,
Roden’s the best at it.
Erebus odora,
Let’s go look,
You have to be careful with these things,
You drop one on your foot and
 you hop for weeks.
Erebus odora,
The Black Witch Moth.
 ‘A tropical species sometimes straying
 up to Canada in the fall,’ “ he read. “The larvae eat acacia, catclaw, and
 similar plants. Indigenous West Indies, Southern U.S., considered a pest in
 Hawaii.’ “
 Fuckola, Starling thought. “Nuts.
They’re all over.
But they’re not all over all the time.
Do they double-brood, Roden?
Wait a second… yeah, in extreme south Florida and south Texas.
When?
May and August.
I was just thinking,
Your specimen’s a little better developed
 than the one we have, and it’s fresh. It had started fracturing its cocoon to
 come out. In the West Indies or Hawaii, maybe, I could understand it, but it’s
winter here. In this country it would wait three months to come out. Unless it
 happened accidentally in a greenhouse, or somebody raised it.
Raised it how?
In a cage, in a warm place, with some acacia leaves for the larvae to eat until
 they’re ready to button up in their cocoons. It’s not hard to do.
Is it a popular hobby? Outside professional study, do a lot of people do it?
No, primarily it’s entomologists trying to get a perfect specimen, maybe a
 few collectors. There’s the silk industry too, they raise moths, but not this
 kind.
Entomologists must have periodicals, professional journals, people that sell
 equipment.
Sure, and most of the publications come here.
Let me make you a bundle,
A couple of people here subscribe
 privately to the smaller newsletters—keep ‘em locked up and make you give
 them a quarter just to look at the stupid things. Ill have to get those in the
 morning.
I’ll see they’re picked up, thank you, Mr. Roden.
I’ll take you down,
Most people love butterflies and hate moths,
But moths are more—interesting, engaging.
They’re destructive.
Some are, a lot are, but they live in all kinds of ways. Just like we do.
There’s a moth, more than one in fact, that lives only
 on tears,
That’s all they eat or drink.
What kind of tears? Whose tears?
The tears of large land mammals, about our size. The old definition of moth
 was ‘anything that gradually, silently eats, consumes, or wastes any other
 thing.’ It was a verb for destruction too.… Is this what you do all the time—
 hunt Buffalo Bill?
I do it all I can.
Do you ever go out for cheeseburgers and beer or the
 amusing house wine?
Not lately.
Will you go for some with me now? It’s not far.
No, but I’ll treat when this is over—and Mr. Roden can go too, naturally.
There’s nothing natural about that,
I hope you’re through with this soon, Officer Starling.
I’ve got the munchies, want some popcorn?’’ she said.
 ‘Til go get it, give me your keys.’’
 “Sit still. I need to see if Mom called, anyway.
Help you with that.
Would you? Thanks.
Good,
Let’s slide it to the front, do you mind?
Are you about a fourteen?
What?
Would you hand me that rope? It’s just at your feet.
Good,
Good,
Gooood,
eyeball van
Nine twenty-two forty.
Forty stand by for Alpha 4.
Jack—you up on Catherine Martin?
The night duty officer called me just now.
Then you know about the blouse. Talk to me.
Buzzard Point went to kidnap alert,
I’d prefer they didn’t stand down yet. When they do stand down I’d like to
 keep the phone surveillance. Slit blouse or not, we don’t know for sure it’s
 Bill. If it’s a copycat he might call for ransom. Who’s doing taps and traces in
 Tennessee, us or them?
Them. The state police. They’re pretty good. Phil Adler called from the
 White House to tell me about the President’s ‘intense interest.’ We could use
 a win here, Jack.
That had occurred to me. Where’s the Senator?
En route to Memphis. She got me at home a minute ago. You can imagine.
Yes.
She’s coming down with all the weight she’s got.
I don’t blame her.
Neither do I,
I’ve told her we’re going flat-out, just as
 we’ve done all along. She is… she’s aware of your personal situation and
 she’s offered you a company Lear. Use it—come home at night if you can.
Good. The Senator’s tough, Tommy. If she tries to run it we’ll butt heads.
I know. Do a set-pick off me if you have to. What have we got at the best—
 six or seven days, Jack?
I don’t know. If he panics when he finds out who she is—he might just do
 her and dump her.
Where are you?
Two miles from Quantico.
Will the strip at Quantico take a Lear?
Yes.
Twenty minutes.
Yes sir.
Oh God.
Oh boy. ALL RIGHT IN THERE! THIS BATHROOM
 IS SEIZED. COME OUT WITH YOUR PANTS UP. THIS IS NOT A
 DRILL!
Ooch over, Grade, and would you pass me that soap.
Mr. Crawford left for Memphis forty-five minutes ago,
Burroughs went, and Stafford from the lab left from National.
I put a report here for him last night. Did he leave any message for me? I’m
 Clarice Starling.
Yes, I know who you are. I have three copies of your telephone number
 right here, and there are several more on his desk, I believe. No, he didn’t
 leave a thing for you, Clarice.
Would you like me to tell him something when he calls in?
Did he leave a Memphis phone number on his three-card?
No, hell call with it. Don’t you have classes today, Clarice? You’re still in
 school, aren’t you?
Yes. Yes, I am.
The Good-Faith Warrant
 Exception to the Exclusionary Rule in Search and Seizure,
I’m speaking now to the person who is holding my daughter.
You have the power to let my daughter go unharmed. Her name is
 Catherine. She’s very gentle and understanding. Please let my daughter go,
 please release her unharmed. You have control of this situation. You have the
 power. You are in charge. I know you can feel love and compassion. You can
 protect her against anything that might want to harm her. You now have a
 wonderful chance to show the whole world that you are capable of great
 kindness, that you are big enough to treat others better than the world has
 treated you. Her name is Catherine.
The film you’re seeing now is Catherine as a
 little child. Release Catherine. Release her unharmed anywhere in this
 country and you’ll have my help and my friendship.
I promise you in front of this entire
 country, you’ll have my unstinting aid whenever you need it. I’m well
 equipped to help you. I am a United States Senator. I serve on the Armed
 Services Committee. I am deeply involved in the Strategic Defense Initiative,
 the space weapons systems which everyone calls ‘Star Wars.’ If you have
 enemies, I will fight them. If anyone interferes with you, I can stop them.
 You can call me at any time, day or night. Catherine is my daughter’s name.
 Please, show us your strength.
release
 Catherine unharmed.
Boy, is that smart,
Jesus,
 that’s smart.
What, the Star Wars?
If the aliens are trying to control Buffalo
 Bill’s thoughts from another planet, Senator Martin can protect him—is that
 the pitch?
A lot of paranoid schizophrenics have that specific
 hallucination—alien control. If that’s the way Bill’s wired, maybe this
 approach could bring him out. It’s a damn good shot, though, and she stood
 up there and fired it, didn’t she? At the least it might buy Catherine a few
 more days. They may have time to work on Bill a little. Or they may not;
 Crawford thinks his period may be getting shorter. They can try this, they can
 try other things.
Nothing I wouldn ‘ try if he had one of mine. Why did she keep saying
 ‘Catherine,’ why the name all the time?
She’s trying to make Buffalo Bill see Catherine as a person. They’re
 thinking he’ll have to depersonalize her, he’ll have to see her as an object
 before he can tear her up. Serial murderers talk about that in prison
interviews, some of them. They say it’s like working on a doll.
Do you see Crawford behind Senator Martin’s statement?
Maybe, or maybe Dr. Bloom—there he is,
Buffalo Bill.
There’s nothing we can threaten him with that’s more terrible than what he
 faces every day. What we can do is ask him to come to us. We can promise
 him kind treatment and relief, and we can mean it absolutely and sincerely.
Couldn’t we all use some relief,
Damn if I couldn’t use some
 relief myself. Slick obfuscation and facile bullshit, I love it. He didn’t tell
 them anything, but then he probably didn’t stir Bill up much either.
I can stop thinking about that kid in West Virginia for a while,
it goes away for, say, a half an hour at a time, and then it pokes me in
 the throat. Glitter polish on her nails—let me not get into it.
That just proves my theory,
What’s that?
You meet two guys, right? The wrong one’ll call you every God damned
 time.
I been knowing that.
If that’s Hot Bobby
Lowrance, would you tell him I’m in the library?
I’ll call him
 tomorrow, tell him.
Starling, pack for two nights and meet me in an hour.
—won’t need the kit, just
 clothes.
Meet you where?
The Smithsonian.
Jack Crawford,
I don’t want to put anything on your mind,
Yes you do,
You’re supposed to take the Criminal Code exam tomorrow and the PE test
 in two days. You make sure Supremo Crawford knows you could get
 recycled if he’s not careful. Soon as he says, ‘Good work, Trainee Starling,’
 don’t you say, ‘The pleasure was mine.’ You get right in his old Easter Island
 face and say, ‘I’m counting on you to see to it yourself that I’m not recycled
 for missing school.’ Understand what I’m saying?
I can get a makeup on the Code.
Right, and you fail it with no time to study, you think they won’t recycle
 you? Are you kidding me? Girl, they’ll sail you off the back steps like a dead
 Easter chick. Gratitude’s got a short half-life, Clarice. Make him say no
 recycle. You’ve got good grades—make him say it. I never would find
 another roommate that can iron as fast as you can at one minute to class.
Evening, Starling.
Hello,
We can make it from here
 by ourselves, Officer, thank you.
Catherine Martin’s probably still alive.
Memphis was pretty much of a wipe,
He got her on the parking
 lot, I think. Nobody saw it. She went in her apartment and then she came
 back out for some reason. She didn’t mean to stay out long—she left the door
 ajar and flipped the deadbolt so it wouldn’t lock behind her. Her keys were
 on top of the TV. Nothing disturbed inside. I don’t think she was in the
 apartment long. She never got as far as her answering machine in the
 bedroom. The message light was still blinking when her yo-yo boyfriend
 finally called the police.
So now he’s got her, Starling. The networks agreed not to do a countdown
 on the evening news—Dr. Bloom thinks it eggs him on. A couple of the
 tabloids’ll do it anyway.
So Catherine Baker Martin’s waiting in Bill’s green room, Starling, and we
 have maybe a week. That’s at the outside—Bloom thinks his period’s getting
 shorter.
green room
But this time, Starling, this time we may have a little break.
We’ve got another insect. Your fellows, Pilcher and that… other one.
Roden.
They
Where was it—Cincinnati?—the girl in the freezer?
No. Come on and I’11 show you. Let’s see what you think about it.
Entomology’s the other way, Mr. Crawford.
I know,
Klaus,
Klaus had the bug in his throat,
Hold on a minute, Starling.
 Jerry, are you talking to the wire room?
Yeah, Jack, they’re drying the art on Klaus.
Bobby, don’t wait for the Interpol
 split. Get a picture wire and transmit the photographs now, along with the
 medical. Scandinavian countries, West Germany, the Netherlands. Be sure to
 say Klaus could be a merchant sailor that jumped ship. Mention that their
 National Health may have a claim for the cheekbone fracture. Call it the
 what, the zygomatic arch. Make sure you move both dental charts, the
 universal and the Federation Den-taire. They’re coming with an age, but
 emphasize that it’s a rough estimate—you can’t depend on skull sutures for
 that.
Where’s your gear, Starling?
The guard office downstairs.
Johns Hopkins found the insect,
They were doing the head for the Baltimore County police. It was
 in the throat, just like the girl in West Virginia.
Just like West Virginia.
You clucked. Johns Hopkins found it about seven tonight. The Baltimore
 district attorney called me on the plane. They sent the whole thing over,
 Klaus and all, so we could see it in situ. They also wanted an opinion from
 Dr. Angel on Klaus’ age and how old he was when he fractured his
 cheekbone. They consult the Smithsonian just like we do.
I have to deal with this a second. You’re saying maybe Buffalo Bill killed
 Klaus? Years ago?
Does it seem farfetched, too much of a coincidence?
Right this second it does.
Let it cook a minute.
Dr. Lecter told me where to find Klaus,
Yes, he did.
Dr. Lecter told me his patient, Benjamin Raspail, claimed to have killed
 Klaus. But Lecter said he believed it was probably accidental erotic
 asphyxia.
That
You think maybe Dr. Lecter knows exactly how Klaus died, and it wasn’t
 Raspail, and it wasn’t erotic asphyxia?
Klaus had a bug in his throat, the girl in West Virginia had a bug in her
 throat. I never saw that anywhere else. Never read about it, never heard of it.
 What do you think?
I think you told me to pack for two days. You want me to ask Dr. Lecter,
 don’t you.
You’re the one he talks to, Starling.
I figure you’re game.
Well talk on the way to the asylum,
Dr. Lecter had a big psychiatric practice for years before we caught him
 for the murders.
He did a slew of psychiatric evaluations for
 the Maryland and Virginia courts and some others up and down the East
 Coast. He’s seen a lot of the criminally insane. Who knows what he turned
 loose, just for fun? That’s one way he could know. Also, he knew Raspail
 socially and Raspail told him things in therapy. Maybe Raspail told him who
 killed Klaus.
Lecter offered to help, and I had no part of him. I’ve had his help before. He
 gave us nothing useful and he helped Will Graham get a knife jammed
 through his face last time. For fun.
 “But a bug in Klaus’ throat, a bug in the girl’s throat in West Virginia, I can’t
 ignore that. Alan Bloom’s never heard of that specific act before, and neither
 have I. Have you ever run across it before, Starling? You’ve read the
 literature since I have.
Never. Inserting other objects, yes, but never an insect.
Two things to begin with. First, we go on the premise that Dr. Lecter really
 knows something concrete. Second, we remember that Lecter looks only for
 the fun. Never forget fun. He has to want Buffalo Bill caught while Catherine
 Martin’s still alive. All the fun and benefits have to lie in that direction.
 We’ve got nothing to threaten him with—he’s lost his commode seat and his
 books already. That cleans him out.
What would happen if we just told him the situation and offered him
 something—a cell with a view. That’s what he asked for when he offered to
 help.
He offered to help, Starling. He didn’t offer to snitch. Snitching wouldn’t
 give him enough of a chance to show off. You’re doubtful. You favor the
 truth. Listen, Lecter’s in no hurry. He’s followed this like it was baseball. We
 ask him to snitch, he’ll wait. He won’t do it right away.
Even for a reward? Something he won’t get if Catherine Martin dies?
Say we tell him we know he’s got information and we want him to snitch.
 He’d have the most fun by waiting and acting like he’s trying to remember
 week after week, getting Senator Martin’s hopes up and letting Catherine die,
 and then tormenting the next mother and the next, getting their hopes up,
 always just about to remember—that would be better than having a view. It’s
 the kind of thing he lives on. It’s his nourishment.
 “I’m not sure you get wiser as you get older, Starling, but you do learn to
 dodge a certain amount of hell. We can dodge some right there.
So Dr. Lecter has to think we’re coming to him strictly for theory and
insight,
Correct.
Why did you tell me? Why didn’t you just send me in to ask him that way?
I level with you. You’ll do the same when you have a command. Nothing
 else works for long.
So there’s no mention of the insect in Klaus’ throat, no connection between
 Klaus and Buffalo Bill.
No. You came back to him because you were so impressed that he could
 predict Buffalo Bill would start scalping. I’m on the record dismissing him
 and so is Alan Bloom. But I’m letting you fool with it. You have an offer for
 some privileges—stuff that only somebody as powerful as Senator Martin
 could get for him. He has to believe he should hurry because the offer ends if
 Catherine dies. The Senator totally loses interest in him if that happens. And
 if he fails, it’s because he’s not smart and knowledgeable enough to do what
 he said he could do—it’s not because he’s holding out to spite us.
Will the Senator lose interest?
Better you should be able to say under oath that you never knew the answer
 to that question.
I see.
Do you see?
Yes. How can he be specific enough to steer us to Buffalo Bill without
 showing he’s got special knowledge? How can he do that with just theory and
 insight?
I don’t know, Starling. He’s had a long time to think about it. He’s waited
 through six victims.
‘No sir. Did they roll over
 for it?… How long? No sir. No. No wire. Tommy, that
We have Lecter for three days. If we don’t get any results, Baltimore sweats
 him until the court pulls them off.
Sweating him didn’t work last time. Dr. Lecter doesn’t sweat much.
What did he give them after all that, a paper chicken?
A chicken, yes.
I don’t blame the Baltimore cops. He’s their prisoner. If Catherine floats,
 they have to be able to tell Senator Martin they tried it all.
How is Senator Martin?
Game but hurting. She’s a smart, tough woman with a lot of sense, Starling.
 You’d probably like her.
Will Johns Hopkins and Baltimore County homicide keep quiet about the
 bug in Klaus’ throat? Can we keep it out of the papers?
For three days at least.
That took some doing.
We can’t trust Frederick Chilton, or anybody else at the hospital,
If Chilton knows, the world knows. Chilton has to know you’re there,
 but it’s simply a favor you’re doing Baltimore Homicide, trying to close the
 Klaus case—it has nothing to do with Buffalo Bill.
And I’m doing this late at night?
That’s the only time I’d give you. I should tell you, the business about the
 bug in West Virginia will be in the morning papers. The Cincinnati coroner’s
 office spilled it, so that’s no secret anymore. It’s an inside detail that Lecter
 can get from you, and it doesn’t matter, really, as long as he doesn’t know we
 found one in Klaus too.
What have we got to trade him?
I’m working on it,
Cash for Your Trash.
Misbekavin
Save up all your old newsPA-PERS, Save and pile ‘em like a high
skySCRAPER DAH DAHDAHDAH DAH DAH DAHDAH DAH
 DAH…
Do something for me, honey. Do something for me SOON.
Whatcha gonna do for meeee?
Ye-e-e-e-s. Are you famished, Precious? I am too.
Just a mo’, sweetheart.
Now. Now, then.
 We’ll have our supper in a minute.
You haven’t done Number Two-ooo. All right, I won’t watch.
Oh, super, you little baggage, aren’t you a
 perfect lady? Come on, let’s go to bed.
All right, Silly Billy.
No you don’t, you’ve had
 enough.
No, no, all gone,
You’re too fat as it is.
Fatty Bread, Fatty Bread
PLEEASE.
Would you like a cup of decaf?
No, thanks. I’m sorry to interrupt your evening.
You’re still trying to find out something about that head business,
Yes. The Baltimore district attorney’s office told me they’d made the
 arrangements with you, Doctor.
Oh yes. I work very closely with the authorities here, Miss Starling. Are you
 doing an article or a thesis, by the way?
No.
Have you ever been published in any of the professional journals?
No, I never have. This is just an errand the U.S. Attorney’s office asked me
 to do for Baltimore County Homicide. We left them with an open case and
 we’re just helping them tidy up the loose ends.
Are you wired, Miss Starling?
Am I—
Are you wearing a microphone device to record what Dr. Lecter says? The
 police term is ‘wired,’ I’m sure you’ve heard it.
No.
Then put this in your purse. I’ll have it transcribed and forward you a
 copy. You can use it to augment your notes.
No, I can’t do that, Dr. Chilton.
Why on earth not? The Baltimore authorities have asked me all along for my
 analysis of anything Lecter says about this Klaus business.
The U.S. Attorney thought we’d try an informal approach first. If I recorded
 Dr. Lecter without his knowledge, and he found out, it would really, it would
 be the end of any kind of working atmosphere we had. I’m sure you’d agree
 with that.
How would he find out?
d read it in the newspaper with everything else you know, you fucking
 jerk She didn
If this should go anywhere and he has to depose,
 you’d be the first one to see the material and I’m sure you’d be invited to
 serve as expert witness. We’re just trying to get a lead out of him now.
Do you know why he talks to you, Miss Starling?
No, Dr. Chilton.
Do you really feel you know what you’re doing?
Sure I do.
do’s
What you’re doing is coming into my hospital to conduct an interview and
 refusing to share information with me.
I’m acting on my instructions, Dr. Chilton. I have the U.S. Attorney’s night
 number here. Now please, either discuss it with him or let me do my job.
I’m not a turnkey here, Miss Starling. I don’t come running down here at
 night just to let people in and out. I had a ticket to Holiday on Ice.
Teach us to care and not to care, teach us to be still.”
 “Pardon me?” Alonzo said, and Starling realized she had spoken aloud.
 He left her with the big orderly who opened the door. As Alonzo turned
 away, she saw him cross himself.
 “Welcome back.” the orderly said, and shot the bolts home behind her.
 “Hello, Barney.”
 A paperback book was wrapped around Barney
How do you want the lights?
Dr. Lecter’s awake.
At night, always-—even when his lights are off.
Let’s leave them like they are.
Stay in the middle going down, don’t touch the bars, right?
I want to shut that TV off.
Sure, turn the sound off, but leave the picture if you don’t mind. Some of
 ‘em like to look at it. The chair’s right there if you want it.
Good evening, Dr. Lecter.
Clarice.
You’re up late for a school night,
This is night school.
Yesterday
 I was in West Virginia—
Did you hurt yourself?’’
 “No, I—’’
 “You have on a fresh Band-Aid, Clarice.
I got a scrape on the side of the pool, swimming
 today.
I was in West Virginia yesterday. They found a body over
 there, Buffalo Bill’s latest.
Not quite his latest Clarice.
His next-to-latest.
Yes.
She was scalped. Just as you said she would be.
Do you mind if I go on sketching while we talk?
No, please.
You viewed the remains?
Yes.
Had you seen his earlier efforts?
No. Only pictures.
How did you feel?
Apprehensive. Then I was busy.
And after?
Shaken.
Could you function all right?
Very well. I functioned very well.
For Jack Crawford? Or does he still make house calls?
He was there.
Indulge me a moment, Clarice. Would you let your head hang forward, just
 let it hang forward as though you were asleep. A second more. Thank you,
 I’ve got it now. Have a seat, if you like. You had told Jack Crawford what I
 said before they found her?
Yes. He pretty much pooh-poohed it.
And after he saw the body in West Virginia?
 “He talked to his main authority, from the University of—
Alan Bloom.
That’s right. Dr. Bloom said Buffalo Bill was fulfilling a persona the
 newspapers created, the Buffalo Bill scalp-taking business the tabloids were
 playing with. Dr. Bloom said anybody could see that was coming.
Dr. Bloom saw that coming?
He said he did.
He saw it coming, but he kept it to himself. I see. What do you think,
 Clarice?
I’m not sure.
You have some psychology, some forensics. Where the two flow together
 you fish, don’t you? Catching anything, Clarice?
It’s pretty slow so far.
What do your two disciplines tell you about Buffalo Bill?
By the book, he’s a sadist.
Life’s too slippery for books, Clarice; anger appears as lust, lupus presents
 as hives.
Do
 you mean Dr. Bloom’s book?
Yes.
You looked me up in it, didn’t you?
Yes.
How did he describe me?
A pure sociopath.
Would you say Dr. Bloom is always right?
I’m still waiting for the shallowness of affect.
We have experts at every
 hand, Clarice. Dr. Chilton says Sammie, behind you there, is a hebephrenic
 schizoid and irretrievably lost. He put Sammie in Miggs’ old cell, because he
 thinks Sammie’s said bye-bye. Do you know how hebephrenics usually go?
 Don’t worry, he won’t hear you.
They’re the hardest to treat,
Usually they go into terminal
 withdrawal and personality disintegration.
Only yesterday Sammie sent that across with my supper,
Would you read it aloud? He won’t hear you.
 ‘I want to go to Jesus, I want to go with Christ, I can go
 with Jesus if I act real nice.’ “
 “No, no. Get a more assertive Tease porridge hot’ quality into it. The meter
 varies but the intensity is the same.
Tease
 porridge in the pot nine days old. Intensely, you see. Fervently. ‘I wan to go
 to Jesa, I wan to go wiv Criez.
I see,’’ Starling said, putting the paper back in the carrier.
 “No, you don’t see anything at all.
I wan to go to Jesa—
I WAN TOO GO TO JESA
 I WAN TOO GO WIV CRIEZ
 I CAN GO WTV JESA EF 1 AC RELL N1IIZE “
 Silence. Starling found that she was standing and her folding chair was over
 backwards. Her papers had spilled from her lap.
 “Please.
You don’t see at all.
Sammie is intensely religious. He’s
 simply disappointed because Jesus is so late. May I tell Clarice why you’re
 here, Sammie?
Please?
Eaaah,
Sammie put his mother’s head in the collection plate at the Highway Baptist
 Church in Trune. They were singing ‘Give of Your Best to the Master’ and it
 was the nicest thing he had.
Thank you,
 Sammie. It’s perfectly all right. Watch television.
Now. See if you can apply yourself to his problem and perhaps I’ll apply
 myself to yours. Quid pro quo. He’s not listening.
The verse changes from ‘go to Jesus’ to ‘go
 with Christ/ “ she said. “That’s a reasoned sequence: going to, arriving at,
 going with.
Yes. It’s a linear progression. I’m particularly pleased that he knows ‘Jesa’
 and ‘Criez’ are the same. That’s progress. The idea of a single Godhead also
 being a Trinity is hard to reconcile, particularly for Sammie, who’s not
 positive how many people he is himself. Eldridge Cleaver gives us the
 parable of the 3-in-One Oil, and we find that useful.
He sees a causal relationship between his behavior and his aims, that’s
 structured thinking.
So is the management of a rhyme. He’s
 not blunted— he’s crying. You believe he’s a catatonic schizoid?
Yes. Can you smell his sweat? That peculiar goatish odor is trans-3-methyl
2 hexenoic acid. Remember it, it’s the smell of schizophrenia.
And you believe he’s treatable?
Particularly now, when he’s coming out of a stuporous phase. How his
 cheeks shine!
Dr. Lecter, why do you say Buffalo Bill’s not a sadist?
Because the newspapers have reported the bodies had ligature marks on the
wrists, but not the ankles. Did you see any on the person’s ankles in West
 Virginia?
No.
Clarice, recreational flayings are always conducted with the victim inverted,
 so that blood pressure is maintained longer in the head and chest and the
 subject remains conscious. Didn’t you know that?
No.
When you’re back in Washington, go to the National Gallery and look at
 Titian’s Flaying of Marsyas before they send it back to Czechoslovakia.
 Wonderful for details, Titian—look at helpful Pan, bringing the bucket of
 water.
Dr. Lecter, we have some extraordinary circumstances here and some
 unusual opportunities.
For whom?
For you, if we save this one. Did you see Senator Martin on television?
Yes, I saw the news.
What did you think of the statement?
Misguided but harmless. She’s badly advised.
She’s very powerful, Senator Martin. And determined.
Let’s have it.
I think you have extraordinary insight. Senator Martin has indicated that if
 you help us get Catherine Baker Martin back alive and unharmed, she’ll help
 you get transferred to a federal institution, and if there’s a view available,
 you’ll get it. You may also be asked to review written psychiatric evaluations
 of incoming patients—a job, in other words. No relaxing of security
 restrictions.
I don’t believe that, Clarice.
You should.
Oh, I believe you. But there are more.things you don’t know about human
 behavior than how a proper flaying is conducted. Would you say that for a
 United States Senator, you’re an odd choice of messenger?
I was your choice, Dr. Lecter. You chose to speak to me. Would you prefer
someone else now? Or maybe you don’t think you could help.
That is both impudent and untrue, Clarice. I don’t believe Jack Crawford
 would allow any compensation
 ever to reach me___Possibly I’ll tell you one thing you
 can tell the Senator, but I operate strictly COD. Maybe I’ll trade for a piece of
 information about you. Yes or no?
Let’s hear the question.
Yes or no? Catherine’s waiting, isn’t she? Listening to the whetstone? What
 do you think she’d ask you to do?
Let’s hear the question.
What’s your worst memory of childhood?
Quicker than that,
I’m not interested in your worst
 invention.
The death of my father,
Tell me.
He was a town marshal. One night he surprised two burglars, addicts,
 coming out of the back of the drugstore. As he was getting out of his pickup
 he short-shucked a pump shotgun and they shot him.
Short-shucked?
He didn’t work the slide fully. It was an old pump gun, a Remington 8’0,
 and the shell hung up in the shell carrier. When it happens the gun won’t
 shoot and you have to take it down to clear it. I think he must have hit the
 slide on the door getting out.
Was he killed outright?
No. He was strong. He lasted a month.
Did you see him in the hospital?
Dr. Lecter—yes.
Tell me a detail you remember from the hospital.
A neighbor came, an older woman, a single lady,
 and she recited the end of “Thanatopsis
Yes we have. You’ve been very frank, Clarice. I always know. I think it
 would be quite something to know you in private life.
Quid pro quo.
In life, was the girl in West Virginia very attractive physically, do you
 think?
She was well-groomed.
Don’t waste my time with loyalty.
She was heavy.
Large?
Yes.
Shot in the chest.
Yes.
Flat-chested, I expect.
For her size, yes.
But big through the hips. Roomy.
She was, yes.
What else?
She had an insect deliberately inserted in her throat—that hasn’t been made
 public.
Was it a butterfly?
It was a
 moth,
Please tell me how you anticipated that.
Clarice, I’m going to tell you what Buffalo Bill wants Catherine Baker
 Martin for, and then good night. This is my last word under the current terms.
 You can tell the Senator what he wants with Catherine and she can come up
 with a more interesting offer for me… or she can wait until Catherine bobs to
 the surface and see that I was right.
What does he want her for, Dr. Lecter?
He wants a vest with tits on it,
My family will pay,
Cash. My mother will pay it now, no
 questions asked. This is her private—oh!
This is her private number. It’s 202—
Wash yourself.
Take it off and wash yourself all over, or you’ll get the hose.
Yes it will get the hose, won’t it, Darlingheart,
 yes it
 Willi
Wash yourself. All over.
Now dry off and rub the cream all over. Rub it all over.
Now pick up your litter and wash the floor.
My mother will pay.
No questions asked. Shell pay
 enough for you all to be rich. If it’s a cause, Iran or Palestine, or Black
 Liberation, shell give the money for that. All you have to do—
Uhhhhhh!
Crawford.
I’m at a pay phone outside the maximum security ward,
Dr.
 Lecter asked me if the insect in West Virginia was a butterfly. He wouldn’t
 elaborate. He said Buffalo Bill needs Catherine Martin because, I’m quoting,
 ‘He wants a vest with tits on it.’ Dr. Lecter wants to trade. He wants a ‘more
 interesting’ offer from the Senator.
Did he break it off?
Yes.
How soon do you think he’ll talk again?
I think he’d like to do this over the next few days, but I’d rather hit him
 again now, if I can have some kind of urgent offer from the Senator.
Urgent is right. We got an ID on the girl in West Virginia, Starling. A
 missing-person fingerprint card from Detroit rang the cherries in ID section
 about a half hour ago. Kimberly Jane Emberg, twenty-two, missing from
 Detroit since February seventh. We’re canvassing her neighborhood for
 witnesses. The Charlottesville medical examiner says she died not later than
 February eleventh, and possibly the day before, the tenth.
He only kept her alive three days.
His period’s getting shorter. I don’t think anybody’s surprised.
He’s had Catherine Martin about twenty-six hours. I think if
 Lecter can deliver, he’d better do it in your next conversation. I’m set up in
 the Baltimore field office, the van patched you through. I have a room for
 you in the Hojo two blocks from the hospital if you need a catnap later on.
“He’s leery, Mr. Crawford, he’s not sure you’d let him have anything good.
 What he said about Buffalo Bill, he traded for personal information about me.
 I don’t think there’s any textual correlation between his questions and the
 case.… Do you want to know the questions?
No.
That’s why you didn’t make me wear a wire, isn’t it? You thought it’d be
 easier for me, I’d be more likely to tell him stuff and please him if nobody
 else could hear.
Here’s another possibility for you: What if I trusted your judgment,
 Starling? What if I thought you were my best shot, and I wanted to keep a lot
 of second-guessers off your back? Would I have you wear a wire then?
No sir.
What can we offer Dr. Lecter?
A couple of things I’m sending over. It’ll be there in five minutes, unless
 you want to rest a little first.
I’d rather do it now,
Tell them to ask for Alonzo. Tell
 Alonzo I
Five minutes,
Hold on, girl.
‘We
We’re better than wherever he’s got you. Help me. Help me. Help me.
Doctor.
What do you make of this?
This is about my crucifixion watch,
They won’t give me a
 patent, but they advise me to copyright the face. Look here.
You may have noticed that in most crucifixions the hands point to,
 say, a quarter to three, or ten till two at the earliest, while the feet are at six.
 On this watch face, Jesus is on the cross, as you see there, and the arms
 revolve to indicate the time, just like the arms on the popular Disney watches.
 The feet remain at six and at the top a small second hand revolves in the halo.
 What do you think?
You’ll lose a lot of detail when it’s reduced to watch size.
True, unfortunately, but think of the clocks. Do you think this is safe without
 a patent?”
“You
But you’re not a lawyer, are you? They don’t require that in the FBI
 anymore.
I have a proposal for you,
Excuse me,
If you’ve got a lot of papers to wrestle, there’s a
 one-armed desk, a school desk, in the closet here that the shrinks use. Want
 it?
May we talk now, Dr. Lecter?
Yes, Barney. Thank you.
Dr. Lecter, the Senator has a remarkable offer.
I’ll decide that. You spoke to her so soon?
Yes. She’s not holding anything back. This is all she’s got, so it’s not a
 matter for bargaining. This is it, everything, one offer.
If you help us find Buffalo Bill in time to save Catherine Martin unharmed,
 you get the following: transfer to the Veteran’s Administration hospital at
 Oneida Park, New York, to a cell with a view of the woods around the
 hospital. Maximum security measures still apply. You’ll be asked to help
 evaluate written psychological tests on some federal inmates, though not
 necessarily those sharing your own institution. You’ll do the evaluations
 blind. No identities. You’ll have reasonable access to books.
The best thing, the remarkable thing: one week a year, you will leave the
 hospital and go here.
Plum Island,
Every afternoon of that week you can walk on
 the beach or swim in the ocean with no surveillance closer than seventy-five
 yards, but it’ll be SWAT surveillance. That’s it.
If I decline?
Maybe you could hang some cafe curtains in there. It might help. We don’t
 have anything to threaten you with, Dr. Lecter. What I’ve got is a way for
 you to see the daylight.
Will Catherine Martin come and talk to me—only about her captor—if I
 decide to publish? Talk exclusively to me?
Yes. You can take that as a given.
How do you know? Given by whom?
I’ll bring her myself.
If she’ll come.
We’ll have to ask her first, won’t we?
Plum Island.
Look off the tip of Long Island, the north finger there.
Plum Island. ‘The Plum Island Animal Disease Center. (Federal, hoof and
 mouth disease research)/ it says. Sounds charming.
That
Terns.” Dr. Lecter sighed. He cocked his head slightly and touched the
 center of his red lip with his red tongue. “If we talk about this, Clarice, I have
 to have something on account. Quid pro quo. I tell you things, and you tell
 me.”
 “Go,” Starling said.
 She had to wait a full minute before he said, “A caterpillar becomes a pupa in
 a chrysalis. Then it emerges, comes out of its secret changing room as the
beautiful imago. Do you know what an imago is, Clarice?”
 “An adult winged insect.”
 “But what else?”
 She shook her head.
 “It
Nothing to jump on except checking the entomology journals’ subscription
 lists against known sex offenders in the descriptor index.
First, let’s drop Buffalo Bill. It’s a misleading term and has nothing to do
 with the person you want. For convenience we’ll call him Billy. I’ll give you
 a precis of what I think. Ready?
Ready.
The significance of the chrysalis is change. Worm into butterfly, or moth.
 Billy thinks he wants to change. He’s making himself a girl suit out of real
 girls. Hence the large victims—he has to have things that fit. The number of
 victims suggests he may see it as a series of molts. He’s doing this in a two
story house, did you find out why two stories?
For a while he was hanging them on the stairs.
Correct.
Dr. Lecter, there’s no correlation that I ever saw between transsexualism and
 violence—transsexuals are passive types, usually.
That’s true, Clarice. Sometimes you see a tendency to surgical addiction—
 cosmetically, transsexuals are hard to satisfy—but that’s about all. Billy’s not
 a real transsexual. You’re very close, Clarice, to the way you’re going to
 catch him, do you realize that?
No, Dr. Lecter.
Good. Then you won’t mind telling me what happened to you after your
 father’s death.
I don’t imagine the answer’s in your papers, Clarice.
 “My mother kept us together for more than two years.
Doing what?
Working as a motel maid in the daytime, cooking at a cafe at night.
And then?
I went to my mother’s cousin and her husband in Montana.
Just you?
I was the oldest.
The town did nothing for your family?
A check for five hundred dollars.
Curious there was no insurance. Clarice, you said your father hit the shotgun
 slide on the door of his pickup.
Yes.
He didn’t have a patrol car?
No.
It happened at night.
Yes.
Didn’t he have a pistol?
No.
Clarice, he was working at night, in a pickup truck, armed only with a
 shotgun.… Tell me, did he wear a time clock on his belt by any chance? One
 of those things where they have keys screwed to posts all over town and you
 have to drive to them and stick them in your clock? So the town fathers know
 you weren’t asleep. Tell me if he wore one, Clarice.
Yes.
He was a night watchman, wasn’t he, Clarice, he wasn’t a marshal at all. Ill
 know if you lie.
The job description said night marshal.
What happened to it?
What happened to what?
The time clock. What happened to it after your father was shot?
I don’t remember.
If you do remember, will you tell me?
Yes. Wait—the mayor came to the hospital and asked my mother for the
 clock and the badge.
Quid pro quo, Dr.
 Lecter.
Did you think for a second you’d made that up? No, if you’d made it up, it
 wouldn’t sting. We were talking about transsexuals. You said violence and
 destructive aberrant behavior are not statistical correlatives of transsexualism.
 True. Do you remember what we said about anger expressed as lust, and
 lupus presenting as hives? Billy’s not a transsexual, Clarice, but he thinks he
 is, he tries to be. He’s tried to be a lot of things, I expect.
You said that was dose to the way we’d catch him.
There are three major centers for transsexual surgery: Johns Hopkins, the
 University of Minnesota, and Columbus Medical Center. I wouldn’t be
 surprised if he’s applied for sex reassignment at one or all of them and been
 denied.
On what basis would they reject him, what would show up?
You’re very quick, Clarice. The first reason would be criminal record. That
 disqualifies an applicant, unless the crime is relatively harmless and related to
 the gender-identity problem. Cross-dressing in public, something like that. If
 he lied successfully about a serious criminal record, then the personality
 inventories would get him.
How?
You have to know how in order to sieve them, don’t you?
Yes.
Why don’t you ask Dr. Bloom?
I’d rather ask you.
What will you get out of this, Clarice, a promotion and a raise? What are
 you, a G-9? What do little G-9’s get nowadays?
A key to the front door, for one thing. How would he show up on the
 diagnostics?
How did you like Montana, Clarice?
Montana’s fine.
How did you like your mother’s cousin’s husband?
We were different.
How were they?
Worn out from work.
Were there other children?
No.
Where did you live?
On a ranch.
A sheep ranch?
Sheep and horses.
How long were you there?
Seven months.
How old were you?
Ten.
Where did you go from there?
The Lutheran Home in Bozeman.
Tell me the truth.
I am telling you the truth.
You’re hopping around the truth. If you’re tired, we could talk toward the
 end of the week. I’m rather bored myself. Or had you rather talk now?
Now, Dr. Lecter.
All right. A child is sent away from her mother to a ranch in Montana. A
 sheep and horse ranch. Missing the mother, excited by the animals…
It was great. I had my own room with an Indian rug on the floor. They let
 me ride a horse—they led me around on this horse—she couldn’t see very
well. There was something wrong with all the horses. Lame or sick. Some of
 them had been raised with children and they Would, you know, nicker at me
 in the mornings when I went out to the school bus.
But then?
I found something strange in the barn. They had a little tack room out there.
 I thought this thing was some kind of old helmet. When I got it down, it was
 stamped “W. W. Greener’s Humane Horse Killer.
Did they feed out slaughter horses on this ranch, Clarice?
Yes, they did.
Did they kill them at the ranch?
The glue and fertilizer ones they did. You can stack six in a truck if they’re
 dead. The ones for dog food they hauled away alive.
The one you rode around the yard?
We ran away together.
How far did you get?
I got about as far as I’m going until you break down the diagnostics for me.
Do you know the procedure for testing male applicants for transsexual
 surgery?
No.
It may help if you bring me a copy of the regimen from any of the centers,
 but to begin: the battery of tests usually includes Wechsler Adult Intelligence
 Scale, House-Tree-Person, Rorschach, Drawing of Self-Concept, Thematic
 Apperception, MMPI of course, and a couple of others—the Jenkins, I think,
 that NYU developed. You need something you can see quickly, don’t you?
 Don’t you, Clarice?
That would be the best, something quick.
Let’s see… our hypothesis is we’re looking for a male who will test
 differently from the way a true transsexual would test. All right—on House
Tree-Person, look for someone who didn’t draw the female figure first. Male
 transsexuals almost always draw the female first and, typically, they pay a lot
 of attention to adornments on the females they draw. Their male figures are
simple stereotypes—there are some notable exceptions where they draw Mr.
 America—but not much in between.
 “Look for a house drawing without the rosy-future embellishments—no baby
 carriage outside, no curtains, no flowers in the yard.
 “You get two kinds of trees with real transsexuals— flowing, copious
 willows and castration themes. The trees that are cut off by the edge of the
 drawing or the edge of the paper, the castration images, are full of life in the
 drawings of true transsexuals. Flowering and fruitful stumps. That’s an
 important distinction. They’re very unlike the frightened, dead, mutilated
 trees you see in drawings by people with mental disturbances. That’s a good
 one—Billy’s tree will be frightful. Am I going too fast?
No, Dr. Lecter.
On his drawing of himself, a transsexual will almost never draw himself
 naked. Don’t be misled by a certain amount of paranoid ideation in the TAT
 cards—that’s fairly common among transsexual subjects who cross-dress a
 lot; oftentimes they’ve had bad experiences with the authorities. Shall I
 summarize?
Yes, I’d like a summary.
You should try to obtain a list of people rejected from all three gender
reassignment centers. Check first the ones rejected for criminal record—and
 among those look hard at the burglars. Among those who tried to conceal
 criminal records, look for seyere childhood disturbances associated with
 violence. Possibly internment in childhood. Then go to the tests. You’re
 looking for a white male, probably under thirty-five and sizable. He’s not a
 transsexual, Clarice. He just thinks he is, and he’s puzzled and angry because
 they won’t help him. That’s all I want to say, I think, until I’ve read the case.
 You will leave it with me.
Yes.
And the pictures.
They’re included.
Then you’d better run with what you have, Clarice, and we’ll see how you
 do.
I need to know how you—
No. Don’t be grabby or we’ll discuss it next week. Come back when you’ve
made some progress. Or not. And Clarice?
Yes.
Next time you’ll tell me two things. What happened with the horse is one.
 The other thing I wonder is… how do you manage your rage?
Jame had the most atrocious room imaginable in this San Francisco
 flophouse, sort of aubergine walk with smears of psychedelic Day-Gb here
 and therefrom the hippie years, terribly battered everything.
 “Jame—you know, it’s actually spelled that way on his birth certificate,
 that’s where he got it and you have to pronounce it ‘Jame,’ like ‘name,’ or he
 gets livid, even though it was a mistake at the hospital—they were hiring
 cheap help even then that couldn ‘t even get a name right It’s even worse
 today, it’s worth your life to go in a hospital Anyway, here was Jame sitting
 on his bed with his head in his hands in that awful room, and he’d been fired
 from the curio store and he’d done the bad thing again.
 “I’d told him I simply couldn’t put up with his behavior, and Klaus had just
 come into my life, of course. Jame is not really gay, you know, it’s just
 something he picked up in jail. He’s not anything, really, just a sort of total
 lack that he wants to fill, and so angry. You always felt the room was a little
 emptier when he came in. I mean he killed his grandparents when he was
 twelve, you’d think a person that volatile would have some presence,
 wouldn’t you?
 “And here he was, no job, he ‘d done the bad thing again to some luckless
 bag person. I was gone. He’d gone by the post office andpicked up his former
 employer’s mail, hoping there was something he could sell. And there was a
 package from Malaysia, or some-where over there. He eagerly opened it up
 and it was a suitcase full of dead butterflies, just in there loose.
 “His boss sent money to postmasters on all those islands and they sent him
 boxes and boxes of dead butterflies. He set them in Lucite and made the
 tackiest ornaments imaginable—and he had the gall to call them objets. The
 butterflies were useless tojame and he dug his hands in them, thinking there
might be jewelry underneath— sometimes they got bracelets from Bali—and
 he got butterfly powder on his fingers. Nothing. He sat on the bed with his
 head in his hands, butterfly colors on his hands and face and he was at the
 bottom, just as we ‘ve all been, and he was crying. He heard a little noise and
 it was a butterfly in the open suitcase. It was struggling out of a cocoon that
 had been thrown in with the butterflies and it climbed out. There was dust in
 the air from the butterflies and dust in the sun from the window—you know
 how terribly vivid it all is when somebody s describing it to you stoned. He
 watched it pump up its wings. It was a big one, he said. Green. And he
 opened the window and it flew away and he felt so light, he said, and he knew
 what to do.
 “Jame found the little beach house Klaus and I were using, and when I came
 home from rehearsal, there he was. But I didn ‘see Klaus. Klaus wasn ‘t
 there. I said where s Klaus and he said swimming. I knew that was a lie,
 Klaus never swam, the Pacifies much too crashy-bangy. And when I opened
 the refrigerator, well, you know what I found. Klauss head looking out from
 behind the orange juice. Jame had made himself an apron too, you know,
 from Klaus, and he put it on and asked me how I liked him now. I know you
 must be appalled that I’d ever have anything else to do with Jame—he was
 even more unstable when you met him, I think he was just astounded that you
 weren ‘afraid of him. “
 And then, the last words Raspail ever said: “I wonder why my parents didn ‘
 kill me before I was old enough to fool them.
Looks like a straw down a doodlebug
 hole, doesn ‘ it?
Stand him up beside the toilet, Barney,
I thought she might be looking for a civil rights violation in Miggs’ death, so
 I listened,’’ Chilton said. “I hadn’t heard your voice in years—I suppose the
 last time was when you gave me all the misleading answers in my interviews
 and then ridiculed me in your Journal articles. It’s hard to believe an
 inmate’s opinions could count for anything in the professional community,
 isn’t it? But I’m still here. And so are you.
Years of silence, and then Jack Crawford sends down his girl and you just
 went to jelly, didn’t you? What was it that got you, Hannibal? Was it those
 good, hard ankles? The way her hair shines? She’s glorious, isn’t she?
 Remote and glorious. A winter sunset of a girl, that’s the way I think of her. I
 know it’s been some time since you’ve seen a winter sunset, but take my
 word for it.
 “You only get one more day with her. Then Baltimore Homicide takes over
 the interrogation. They’re screwing a chair to the floor for you in the
 electroshock therapy room. The chair has a commode seat for your
 convenience, and for their convenience when they attach the wires. I won’t
 know a thing.
 “Do you get it yet? They know, Hannibal. They know that you know exactly
 who Buffalo Bill is. They think you probably treated him. When I heard Miss
 Starling ask about Buffalo Bill, I was puzzled. I called a friend at Baltimore
 Homicide. They found an insect in Klaus’s throat, Hannibal. They know
 Buffalo Bill killed him. Crawford’s letting you think you’re smart. I don’t
 think you know how much Crawford hates you for cutting up his protege.
 He’s got you now. Do you feel smart now?
 Dr. Lecter watched Chilton’s eyes moving over the straps that held on the
 mask. Clearly Chilton wanted to remove it so he could watch Lecter’ s face.
 Lecter wondered if Chilton would do it the safe way, from behind. If he did it
 from the front, he’d have to reach around Dr. Lecter’s head, with the blue
veined insides of his forearms close to Lecter’ s face. Come, doctor. Come
 close. No, he’s decided against it.
 “Do you still think you’re going someplace with a window? Do you think
 you’ll walk on the beach and see the birds? I don’t think so. I called Senator
 Ruth Martin and she never heard of any deal with you. I had to remind her
 who you were. She never heard of Clarice Starling, either. It’s a scam. We
have to expect small dishonesties in a woman, but that’s a shocker, wouldn’t
 you say?
 “When they get through milking you, Hannibal, Crawford’s charging you
 with misprision of a felony. You’ll duck it on M’Naghten, of course, but the
 judge won’t like it. You sat through six deaths. The judge won’t take such
 interest in your welfare anymore.
 “No window, Hannibal. You’ll spend the rest of your life sitting on the floor
 in a state institution watching the diaper cart go by. Your teeth will go and
 your strength and nobody will be afraid of you anymore and you’ll be out in
 the ward at someplace like Flendauer. The young ones will just push you
 around and use you for sex when they feel like it. All you’ll get to read is
 what you write on the wall. You think the court will care? You’ve seen the
 old ones. They cry when they don’t like the stewed apricots.
 “Jack Crawford and his fluff. They’ll get together openly after his wife dies.
 He’ll dress younger and take up some sport they can enjoy together. They’ve
 been intimate ever since Bella Crawford got sick, they’re certainly not
 fooling anybody about that. They’ll get their promotions and they won’t think
 about you once a year. Crawford probably wants to come personally at the
 end to tell you what you’re getting. Up the booty. I’m sure he has a speech all
 prepared.
 “Hannibal, he doesn’t know you as well as I do. He thought if he asked you
 for the information, you’d just torment the mother with it.
I know what you’re afraid of. It’s not pain, or solitude. It’s indignity you
 can’t stand, Hannibal, you’re like a cat that way. I’m on my honor to look
 after you, Hannibal, and I do it. No personal considerations have ever entered
 into our relationship, from my end. And I’m looking after you now.
 “There never was a deal for you with Senator Martin, but there is now. Or
 there could be. I’ve been on the phone for hours on your behalf and for the
 sake of that girl. I’m going to tell you the first condition: you speak only
 through me. I alone publish a professional account of this, my successful
 interview with you. You publish nothing. I have exclusive access to any
 material from Catherine Martin, if she should be saved.
“That condition is nonnegotiable. You’ll answer me now. Do you accept that
 condition?
You’d better answer me now or you can answer Baltimore Homicide. This
 is what you get: If you identify Buffalo Bill and the girl is found in time,
 Senator Martin—and she’ll confirm this by telephone—Senator Martin will
 have you installed in Brushy Mountain State Prison in Tennessee, out of the
 reach of the Maryland authorities. You’ll be in her bailiwick, away from Jack
 Crawford. You’ll be in a maximum-security cell with a view of the woods.
 You get books. Any outdoor exercise, the details will have to be worked out,
 but she’s amenable. Name him and you can go at once. The Tennessee State
 Police will take custody of you at the airport, the governor has agreed.
His first name is Billy,
I’ll tell the rest to the Senator. In
 Tennessee.
Not without a court order, you don’t.
You’ll have to show me a separate court order for each specific case and
 well fight every one. What did Columbus and Minnesota tell you—same
 thing, am I right?
The Justice Department’s asking them right now. We have to do this fast,
 Doctor. If the girl’s not dead already, he’ll kill her soon—tonight or
 tomorrow. Then he’ll pick the next one,
To even mention Buffalo Bill in the same breath with the problems we treat
 here is ignorant and unfair and dangerous, Mr. Crawford. It makes my hair
 stand on end. It
I agree with you—
Hold on. The incidence of violence among transsexuals is a lot lower than in
 the general population. These are decent people with a real problem—a
 famously intransigent problem. They deserve help and we can give it. I’m not
 having a witch hunt here. We’ve never violated a patient’s confidence, and
 we never will. Better start from there, Mr. Crawford.
Then I haven’t made myself clear, Doctor. My fault—it’s early, I’m not a
 morning person. The whole idea is, the man we want is not your patient It
 would be someone you refused because you recognized that he was not a
 transsexual We’re not flying blind here—I’ll show you some specific ways
 he’d deviate from typical transsexual patterns in your personality inventories.
 Here’s a short list of things your staff could look for among your rejects.
That’s original, Mr. Crawford. In fact it’s extremely
 bizarre, and that’s a word I don’t use very often. May I ask who provided you
 with that piece of… conjecture?
d like to know that, Dr. Danielson. “The Behavioral
 Science staff,” Crawford said, “in consultation with Dr. Alan Bloom at the
 University of Chicago”
 “Alan Bloom endorsed that?”
 “And we don
Examination and interview
 materials are confidential.
Dr. Danielson, how can fraud and misrepresentation be confidential? How
 does a criminal’s real name and real background fall under the doctor-patient
 relationship when he never told it to you, you had to find it out for yourself? I
 know how thorough Johns Hopkins is. You’ve got cases like that, I’m sure of
 it. Surgical addicts apply every place surgery’s performed. It’s no reflection
 on the institution or the legitimate patients. You think nuts don’t apply to the
 FBI? We get ‘em all the time. A man in a Moe hairpiece applied in St. Louis
 last week. He had a bazooka, two rockets, and a bearskin shako in his golf
 bag.
Did you hire him?
Help me, Dr. Danielson. Time’s eating us up. While we’re standing here,
 Buffalo Bill may be turning Catherine Martin into one of these.
Don’t even do that,
That’s a childish, bullying thing to
 do. I was a battle surgeon, Mr. Crawford. Put your picture back in your
 pocket.
Sure, a surgeon can stand to look at a mutilated body,
But
 I don’t think a doctor can stand to see a life wasted.
Here’s
 my best offer: I won’t ask you for patient information, only application
 information selected by you, with reference to these guidelines. You and your
 psychiatric review board can handle your rejected applications a lot faster
 than I can. If we find Buffalo Bill through your information, I’11 suppress
 that fact. Ill find another way we could have done it and well walk through it
 that way, for the record.
Could Johns Hopkins be a protected witness, Mr. Crawford? Could we have
 a new identity? Move us to Bob Jones College, say? I doubt very much that
 the FBI or any other government agency can keep a secret very long.
You’d be surprised.
I doubt it. Trying to crawl out from under an inept bureaucratic lie would be
 more damaging than just telling the truth. Please don’t ever protect us that
 way, thank you very much.
Thank you, Dr. Danielson, for your humorous remarks. They’re very helpful
 to me—111 show you how in a minute. You like the truth—try this. He
 kidnaps young women and rips their skins off. He puts on these skins and
 capers around in them. We don’t want him to do that anymore. If you don’t
 help me as fast as you can, this is what 111 do to you: this morning the
 Justice Department will ask publicly for a court order, saying you’ve refused
 to help. We’ll ask twice a day, in plenty of time for the A.M. and P.M. news
 cycles. Every news release from Justice about this case will say how we’re
 coming along with Dr. Danielson at Johns Hopkins, trying to get him to pitch
 in. Every time there’s news in the Buffalo Bill case—when Catherine Martin
 floats, when the next one floats, and the next one floats—well issue a news
 release right away about how we’re doing with Dr. Danielson at Johns
 Hopkins, complete with your humorous comments about Bob Jones College.
 One more thing, Doctor. You know, Health and Human Services is right here
in Baltimore. My thoughts are running to the Office of Eligibility Policy, and
 I expect your thoughts got there first, didn’t they? What if Senator Martin,
 sometime after her daughter’s funeral, asked the fellows over at Eligibility
 this question: Should the sex-change operations you perform here be
 considered cosmetic surgery? Maybe they’ll scratch their heads and decide,
 ‘Why, you know, Senator Martin’s right Yes. We think it’s cosmetic
 surgery,’ then this program won’t qualify for federal assistance any more
 than a nose-job clinic.
That’s insulting.
No, it’s just the truth.
You don’t frighten me, you don’t intimidate me—
Good. I don’t want to do either one, Doctor. I just want you to know I’m
 serious. Help me, Doctor. Please.
You said you’re working with Alan Bloom.
Yes. The University of Chicago—
I know Alan Bloom, and I’d rather discuss this on a professional level. Tell
 him I’ll be in touch with him this morning. I’ll tell you what I’ve decided
 before noon. I do care about the young woman, Mr. Crawford. And the
 others. But there’s a lot at stake here, and I don’t think it’s as important to
 you as it ought to be.… Mr. Crawford, have you had your blood pressure
 checked recently?
I do it myself.
And do you prescribe for yourself?
That’s against the law, Dr. Danielson,
But you have a doctor.
Yes.
Share your findings with him, Mr. Crawford. What a loss to us all if you
 dropped dead. You’ll hear from me later in the morning.
How much later, Doctor? How about an hour?
An hour.
Hold on,
Let them go,
Can’t we do this in the air?
Sir, we have to do the documentation at the moment of physical transfer.
 That’s my instructions.
Okay,
Sony,
That’s all right, Barney.
I’m quite finished, thank you.
Barney?
Yes, Dr. Lecter?
You’ve been decent to me for a long time. Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Next time Sammie’s at himself, would you say good-bye for me?
Sure.
Good-bye, Barney.
You want
 to catch the bottom there, fellows? Take it on both sides. Well set him on the
 ground. Easy.
He’s gonna fly laying down?
Has he got rubber
 britches on?
You’ll just have to hold your water to Memphis, buddy ruff,
Doctor Chilton, could I speak to you?
These fellows don’t know anything,
I’ll have some help on the other end—experienced psychiatric orderlies.
 He’s their responsibility now.
You think they’ll treat him all right? You know how he is—you have to
 threaten him with boredom. That’s
 all he’s afraid of. Slapping him around’s no good.
I’d never allow that,
 Barney.
You’ll be there when they question him?
Yes.
I could get him settled on the other end and be back
 here just a couple of hours behind my shift,
He’s not your job anymore, Barney. I’ll be there. I’ll
 show them how to manage him, every step.
They better pay attention,
He will.
What do you say, Starling?
I say God dammit, Mr. Crawford, what do you say?
Drugstore’s open on the corner already. We’ll
 get some coffee.
Can I file obstruction of justice on Chilton?
No, it wouldn’t stick.
What if he’s wasted her, what if Catherine dies because of him? I really
 want to get in his face.… Let me stay with this, Mr. Crawford. Don’t send me
 back to school.
Two things. If I keep you, it won’t be to get in Chilton’s face, that comes
 later. Second, if I keep you much longer, you’ll be recycled. Cost you some
 months. The Academy cuts nobody any slack. I can guarantee you get back
 in, but that’s all—there’ll be a place for you, I can tell you that.
Maybe this
 isn’t a polite question to ask the boss, but are you in the glue? Can Senator
 Martin do anything to you?
Starling, I have to retire in two years. If I find Jimmy Hoffa and the Tylenol
 killer I still have to hang it up. It’s not a consideration.
This is the hardest time, Starling. Use this time and it’ll temper you. Now’s
 the hardest test—not letting rage and frustration keep you from thinking. It’s
 the core of whether you can command or not. Waste and stupidity get you the
 worst. Chilton’s a God damned fool and he may have cost Catherine Martin
 her life. But maybe not. We’re her chance. Starling, how cold is liquid
 nitrogen in the lab?
What? Ah, liquid nitrogen… minus two hundred degrees Centigrade, about.
 It boils at a little more than that.
Did you ever freeze stuff with it?
Sure.
I want you to freeze something now. Freeze the business with Chilton. Keep
 the information you got from Lecter and freeze the feelings. I want you to
 keep your eyes on the prize, Starling. That’s all that matters. You worked for
 some information, paid for it, got it, now we’ll use it. It’s just as good—or as
 worthless—as it was before Chilton messed in this. We just won’t get any
 more from Lecter, probably. Take the knowledge of Buffalo Bill you got
 from Lecter and keep it. Freeze the rest. The waste, the loss, your anger,
 Chilton. Freeze it. When we have time, we’ll kick Chilton’s butt up between
 his shoulder blades. Freeze it now and slide it aside. So you can see past it to
 the prize, Starling. Catherine Martin’s life. And Buffalo Bill’s hide on the
 barn door. Keep your eyes on the prize. If you can do that, I need you.
To work with the medical records?
Not unless the clinics stonewall us and we have to take the records. I want
 you in Memphis. We have to hope Lecter tells Senator Martin something
 useful. But I want you to be close by, just in case—if he gets tired of toying
 with her, maybe he’ll talk to you. In the meantime, I want you to try to get a
 feel for Catherine, how Bill might have spotted her. You’re not a lot older
 than Catherine, and her friends might tell you things they wouldn’t tell
 somebody that looks more like a cop.
“We’ve still got the other things going. Interpol’s working on identifying
 Klaus. With an ID on Klaus we can take a look at his associates in Europe
 and in California where he had his romance with Benjamin Ras-pail. I’m
 going to the University of Minnesota—we got off on the wrong foot up there
 —and 111 be in Washington tonight. Til get the coffee now. Whistle up Jeff
 and the van. You’re on a plane in forty minutes.
Five minutes’’ to Jeff waiting in the van. She caught
 Barney as he was unlocking his old Studebaker.
 “Barney.’’
 He turned to face her, expressionless. His eyes may have been a bit wider
 than usual. He had his weight on both feet.
 “Did Dr. Chilton tell you you’d be all right from this?’’
 “What else would he tell me?’’
 “You believe it?’’
 The corner of his mouth turned down. He didn’t say yes or no.
 “I want you to do something for me. I want you to do it now, with no
 questions. IT1 ask you nicely—well start with that. What’s left in Lecter’s
 cell?’’
 “A couple of books—Joy of Cooking, medical journals. They took his court
 papers.
The stuff on the walls, the drawings?
It’s still there.
I want it all and I’m in a hell of a hurry.
Hold on,
You sure I knew the bug was in that desk I brought you?
I have to give that some thought. Here’s a pen, write your phone numbers on
 the bag. Barney, you think they can handle Dr. Lecter?
I got my doubts and I said so to Dr. Chilton. Remember I told you that, in
 case it slips his mind. You’re all right, Officer Starling. Listen, when you get
 Buffalo Bill?
Yeah?
Don’t bring him to me just because I got a vacancy, all right?
It’s the FBI—Jack Crawford.
Why didn’t you tell me about Dr. Lecter, Mr. Crawford?
I was afraid you’d do just what you’re doing, Senator.
I’m not fighting you, Mr. Crawford. If you fight me, you’ll be sorry.
Where’s Lecter now?
I’m looking at him.
Can he hear you?
No.
Senator Martin, listen to me. You want to make personal guarantees to
 Lecter—all right, fine. But do this for me. Let Dr. Alan Bloom brief you
 before you go up against Lecter. Bloom can help you, believe me.
I’ve got professional advice.
Better than Chilton, I hope.
Infighting wastes time, Mr. Crawford. You sent a green recruit to Lecter
 with a phony offer. I can do better than that. Dr. Chilton says Lecter’s
 capable of responding to a straight offer and I’m giving him one— no red
 tape, no personalities, no questions of credit. If we get Catherine back safe,
 everybody smells like a rose, you included. If she… dies, I don’t give a God
 damn about excuses.
Use us then, Senator Martin.
Go on.
If you get something, let us act on it. Make sure we have everything. Make
 sure the local police share. Don’t let them think they’ll please you by cutting
us out.
Paul Krendler from Justice is coming. Hell see to it.
Who’s your ranking officer there now?
Major Bachman from the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation.
Good. If it’s not too late, try for a media blackout. You better threaten
 Chilton about that—he likes attention. We don’t want Buffalo Bill to know
 anything. When we find him, we want to use the Hostage Rescue Team. We
 want to hit him fast and avoid a standoff. You mean to question Lecter
 yourself?
Yes.
Will you talk to Clarice Starling first? She’s on the way.
To what purpose? Dr. Chilton
I want access to Lecter after you’ve talked to him.
Mr. Crawford, he’s promised hell name Buffalo Bill in exchange for
 privileges—amenities, really. If he doesn’t do that, you can have him
 forever.
Senator Martin, I know this is sensitive, but I have to say it to you: whatever
 you do, don’t beg him.
Right, Mr. Crawford. I really can’t talk right now.
If I’m wrong, she won’t be any deader than the last six you handled,
Senator Martin.
Senator Martin, meet Dr. Hannibal Lecter.
Dr. Lecter has indicated to me, Senator, that he wants to contribute to the
 investigation some special knowledge, in return for considerations regarding
 the conditions of his confinement.
Dr. Lecter, this is an affidavit which I’ll
 now sign. It says I’11 help you. Want to read it?
I won’t waste your time and Catherine’s time bargaining for petty privileges.
 Career climbers have wasted enough already. Let me help you now, and I’ll
 trust you to help me when it’s over.
You can count on it. Brian?
Buffalo Bill’s name is William Rubin. He goes by Billy Rubin. He was
 referred to me in April or May 19’5, by my patient Benjamin Raspail. He
 said he lived in Philadelphia, I can’t remember an address, but he was staying
 with Raspail in Baltimore.
Where are your records?
My records were destroyed by court order shortly after—
What did he look like?
Do you mind, Major? Senator Martin, the only—
Give me an age and a physical description, anything else you can
 remember,
That flag smells like cigars,
Did
 you nurse Catherine?
Pardon me? Did I…
Did you breast-feed her?
Yes.
Thirsty work, isn’t it… ?
William Rubin is about
 six feet one, and would be thirty-five years old now. He’s strongly built—
 about one hundred ninety pounds when I knew him and he’s gained since
 then, I expect. He has brown hair and pale blue eyes. Give them that much,
and then we’ll go on.
Yes, I’ll do that,
I only saw him once. He made another appointment, but he never came
 again.
Why do you think he’s Buffalo Bill?
He was murdering people then, and doing some similar things with them,
 anatomically. He said he wanted some help to stop, but actually he just
 wanted to schmooze about it. To rap.
And you didn’t—he was sure you wouldn’t turn him in?
He didn’t think I would, and he likes to take chances. I had honored the
 confidences of his friend Raspail.
Raspail knew he was doing this?
Raspail’s appetites ran to the louche—he was covered with scars.
 “Billy Rubin told me he had a criminal record, but no details. I took a brief
 medical history. It was unexceptional, except for one thing: Rubin told me he
 once suffered from elephant ivory anthrax. That’s all I remember, Senator
 Martin, and I expect you’re anxious to go. If anything else occurs to me, I’ll
 send you word.
Did Billy Rubin kill the person whose head was in the car?
I believe so.
Do you know who that is?
No. Raspail called him Klaus.
Were the other things you told the FBI true?
At least as true as what the FBI told me, Senator Martin.
I’ve made some temporary arrangements for you here in Memphis. We’ll
 talk about your situation and you’ll go on to Brushy Mountain when this is…
 when we’ve got it settled.
Thank you. I’d like a telephone, if I think of something____
YouTl have it.
And music. Glenn Gould, the Goldberg Variations? Would that be too
 much?
Fine.
Senator Martin, don’t entrust any lead solely to the FBI. Jack Crawford
 never plays fair with the other agencies. It’s such a game with those people.
 He’s determined to have the arrest himself. A ‘collar,’ they call it.
Thank you, Dr. Lecter.
Love your suit,
So he can get something that will fit.
Officer, I need to look over the premises here.
If the phone rings, leave it alone. I’ll answer it.
Can I help you any way?
Are the police through in here?
The apartment’s been released to the family. I’m just here for the telephone.
 You can touch stuff, if that’s what you want to know.
Good, I’ll look around then.
Okay.
‘Where you from?”
 Starling didn
Where you from?
Washington,
You with the Attorney General?
No, the FBI.
The Attorney General’s coming. That’s what I heard at turnout. How long
 you been in the FBI?
How long you been in the FBI?
Officer, tell you what. I’ll probably need to ask you a couple of things after
 I’ve finished looking around here. Maybe you could help me out then.
Sure. If I can—
Good, okay. Let’s wait and talk then. I have to think about this right now.
No problem, there.
know about Or maybe they stay over here
 sometimes. There
Catherine, Catherine.
I have the good stuff in my pocketbook,
I don’t
 think anything was taken.
Hello, Senator Martin. Would you like to lie down?
 I’m almost finished.
Who are you, please? I thought the police were through in here.
I’m Clarice Starling, FBI. Did you talk to Dr. Lecter, Senator?
He gave me a name.
Well see what it’s worth. And what did you find in the jewelry
 box, Officer Starling? What’s it worth?
Some documentation we can check out in just a few minutes,
In my daughter’s jewelry box? Lfet’s see it.
Is Mr.
Copley with you, the Memphis special agent in—
No, he’s not, and that’s not an answer. No offense, Officer, but I’ll see what
 you got out of my daughter’s jewelry box.
Paul. Paul, would you come in here? Officer Starling, you
 may know Mr. Krendler from the Department of Justice. Paul, this is the girl
 Jack Crawford sent in to Lecter.
Mr. Krendler, I know who you are. Hello,
Officer Starling found something in my daughter’s jewelry box and she put
 it in her brown envelope. I think we’d better see what it is, don’t you?
Officer,
May I speak to you, Mr. Krendler?
Of course you can. Later.
You got it,
Senator, I—
The police searched this room,
I’m sure they found
 those pictures and had sense enough to put them back and keep their mouths
 shut.
No they did not,
Mrs.
 Martin, we need to know who this man is, you can see that. If it’s the
 boyfriend, fine. I can find that out in five minutes. Nobody else needs to see
 the pictures and Catherine never needs to know.
I’ll tend to it.
Senator, did you take the jewelry out of the rubber cabbage in the kitchen?
Excuse
 me, Senator, they’ve got the terminal set up. We can watch them search the
 William Rubin name at the FBI.
Go ahead, Senator Martin,
I’ll be out in a second.
That was a good search,” he said when he turned around.
 Starling couldn
They turn out good rummagers at Quantico,” Krendler said.
 “They don
I know that,
Hard to tell.
Drop it.
We’ll follow up on the pictures and the rubber cabbage, right?
Yes.
What’s the ‘William Rubin’ name, Mr. Krendler?
Lecter says that’s Buffalo Bill’s name. Here’s our transmission to ID section
 and NCIC. Look at this.
Any thoughts?
There’s nothing here he’ll ever have to eat,
He says it’s a
 white male named Billy Rubin who had elephant ivory anthrax. You couldn’t
 catch him in a lie here, no matter what happens. At the worst he’d just be
 mistaken. I hope this is true. But he could be having fun with her. Mr.
 Krendler, he’s perfectly capable of that. Have you ever… met him?
Dr. Lecter killed nine people we know of. He’s not walking, no matter—he
 could raise the dead and they wouldn’t let him out. So all that’s left for him is
 fun. That’s why we were playing him—
I know how you were playing him. I heard Chilton’s tape. I’m not saying it
 was wrong—I’m saying it’s over. Behavioral Science can follow up what you
 got—the transsexual angle—for what it’s worth. And you’ll be back in
 school at Quantico tomorrow.
I found something else.
What is it?
Looks like a sheet of Plutos.
I’m pretty sure it’s blotter acid. LSD. From maybe the middle seventies or
 before. It’s a curiosity now. It’s worth finding out where she got it. We
 should test it to be sure.
You can take it back to Washington and give it to the lab. You’ll be going in
 a few minutes.
If you don’t want to wait, we can do it now with a field kit. If the police’ve
 got a standard Narcotics Identification Kit, it’s test J, take two seconds, we
 can—
Back to Washington, back to school,
Mr. Crawford instructed me—
Your instructions are what I’m telling you. You’re not under Jack
 Crawford’s direction now. You’re back under the same supervision as any
 other trainee forthwith, and your business is at Quantico, do you understand
 me? There’s a plane at two-ten. Be on it.
Mr. Krendler, Dr. Lecter talked to me after he refused to talk to the
 Baltimore police. He might do that again. Mr. Crawford thought—
Officer Starling, I
 don’t have to explain myself to you, but listen to me. Behavioral Science’s
 brief is advisory, always has been. It’s going back to that. Jack Crawford
 should be on compassionate leave anyway. I’m surprised he’s been able to
perform as well as he has. He took a foolish chance with this, keeping it from
 Senator Martin, and he got his butt sawed off. With his record, this close to
 retirement, even she can’t hurt him that much. So I wouldn’t worry about his
 pension, if I were you.
You’ve got somebody else who’s caught three serial
 murderers? You know anybody else who’s caught one? You shouldn’t let her
 run this, Mr. Krendler.
You must be a bright kid, or Crawford wouldn’t bother with you, so I’ll tell
 you one time: do something about that mouth or it’ll put you in the typing
 pool. Don’t you understand—the only reason you were ever sent to Lecter in
 the first place was to get some news for your Director to use on Capitol Hill.
 Harmless stuff on major crimes, the ‘inside scoop’ on Dr. Lecter, he hands
 that stuff out like pocket candy while he’s trying to get the budget through.
 Congressmen eat it up, they dine out on it. You’re out of line, Officer
 Starling, and you’re out of this case. I know you got supplementary ID. Let’s
 have it.
I need the ID to fly with the gun. The gun belongs at Quantico.
Gun. Jesus. Turn in the ID as soon as you get back.
knifemakers,
Good luck, Senator. I hope Catherine’s all right.
I didn’t know she wasn’t s’posed to be in here,
I have nothing but respect for Jack
 Crawford,
Please tell him how sorry we all are about… Bella’s
 problem, all that. Now let’s get back to school and get busy, all right?
Good-bye, Mr. Krendler.
Billy Rubin.
No press.
No,
You with the Attorney General’s people?
Deputy Assistant Attorney General Krendler,
I just left him.
We’ve had every kind of cop in West Tennessee in here wanting
 to look at Dr. Lecter. Don’t see something like that very often, thank God.
 You’ll need to talk to Dr. Chilton before you go up.
I saw him outside,
We were working on this in Baltimore
 earlier today. Is this where I log in, Sergeant Tate?
Right there,
Detention rules, miss. Visitors check weapons, cops or not.
Vernon, take her up.
Right straight across, ma’am,
You’re authorized to talk with the prisoner, ma’am?
Yes, I am,
I’ve questioned him before.
You know the rules? Don’t pass the barrier.
Absolutely.
Good morning, Clarice.
Dumas tells us that the addition of a
 crow to bouillon in the fall, when the crow has fattened on juniper berries,
 greatly improves the color and flavor of stock. How do you like it in the soup,
 Clarice?
I thought you might want your drawings, the stuff from your cell, just until
 you get your view.
How thoughtful. Dr. Chilton’s euphoric about you and Jack Crawford being
 put off the case. Or did they send you in for one last wheedle?
They didn
People will say we’re in love. Don’t you want to ask about Billy Rubin,
 Clarice?
Dr. Lecter, without in any way… impugning what you’ve told Senator
 Martin, would you advise me to go on with your idea about—
Impugning—I love it. I wouldn’t advise you at all. You tried to fool me,
 Clarice. Do you think I’m playing with these people?
I think you were telling me the truth.
Pity you tried to fool me, isn’t it?
Pity Catherine Martin won’t ever see the
 sun again. The sun’s a mattress fire her God died in, Clarice.
Pity you have to pander now and lick a few tears when you can,
It’s a pity we didn’t get to finish what we were talking about. Your
idea of the imago, the structure of it, had a kind of… elegance that’s hard to
 get away from. Now it’s like a ruin, half an arch standing there.
Half an arch won’t stand. Speaking of arches, will they still let you pound a
 beat, Clarice? Did they take your badge?
No.
What’s that under your jacket, a watchman’s clock just like Dad’s?
No, that’s a speedloader.
So you go around armed?
Yes.
Then you should let your jacket out. Do you sew at all?”
 “Yes.”
 “Did you make that costume?”
 “No. Dr. Lecter, you find out everything. You couldn
Billy Rubin
You think not?
If you met him, you know everything. But today you happened to remember
 just one detail. He’d had elephant ivory anthrax. You should have seen them
 jump when Atlanta said it’s a disease of knifemakers. They ate it up, just like
 you knew they would. You should have gotten a suite at the Peabody for that.
 Dr. Lecter, if you met him you know about him. I think maybe you didn’t
 meet him and Raspail told you about him. Secondhand stuff wouldn’t sell as
 well to Senator Martin, would it?
You had more to tell me in
 Baltimore, Dr. Lecter. I believe that stuff was valid. Tell me the rest.
I’ve read the cases, Clarice, have you? Everything you need to know to find
 him is right there, if you’re paying attention. Even Inspector Emeritus
 Crawford should have figured it out. Incidentally, did you read Crawford’s
 stupefying speech last year to the National Police Academy? Spouting
 Marcus Aurelius on duty and honor and fortitude—we’ll see what kind of a
 Stoic Crawford is when Bella bites the big one. He copies his philosophy out
 of Bartlett’s Familiar, I think. If he understood Marcus Aurelius, he might
 solve his case.
Tell me how.
When you show the odd flash of contextual intelligence, I forget your
 generation can’t read, Clarice. The Emperor counsels simplicity. First
 principles. Of each particular thing, ask: What is it in itself, in its own
 constitution? What is its causal nature?
That doesn’t mean anything to me.
What does he do, the man you want?
He kills—
Ah—
That’s incidental. What is the first and principal thing he
 does, what need does he serve by killing?
Anger, social resentment, sexual frus—
No.
What, then?
He covets. In fact, he covets being the very thing you are. It’s his nature to
 covet. How do we begin to covet, Clarice? Do we seek out things to covet?
 Make an effort at an answer.
No. We just—
No. Precisely so. We begin by coveting what we see every day. Don’t you
 feel eyes moving over you every day, Clarice, in chance encounters? I hardly
 see how you could not. And don’t your eyes move over things?
All right, then tell me how—
It’s your turn to tell me, Clarice. You don’t have any beach vacations at the
 Hoof and Mouth Disease Station to offer me anymore. It’s strictly quid pro
 quo from here on out. I have to be careful doing business with you. Tell me,
 Clarice.
Tell you what?
The two things you owe me from before. What happened to you and the
 horse, and what you do with your anger.
Dr. Lecter, when there’s time I’11—
We don’t reckon time the same way, Clarice. This is all the time you’ll ever
 have.
Later, listen, I’ll—
I’ll listen now. Two years after your father’s death, your mother sent you to
 live with her cousin and her husband on a ranch in Montana. You were ten
 years old. You discovered they fed out slaughter horses. You ran away with a
 horse that couldn’t see very well. And?
—It was summer and we could sleep out. We got as far as Bozeman by a
 back road.
Did the horse have a name?
Probably, but they don’t—you don’t find that out when you’re feeding out
 slaughter horses. I called her Hannah, that seemed like a good name.
Were you leading her or riding?
Some of both. I had to lead her up beside a fence to climb on.
You rode and walked to Bozeman.
There was a livery stable, dude ranch, riding academy sort of thing just
 outside of town. I tried to see about them keeping her. It was twenty dollars a
 week in the corral. More for a stall. They could tell right off she couldn’t see.
 I said okay, I’ll lead her around. Little kids can sit on her and I’ll lead her
 around while their parents are, you know, regular riding. I can stay right here
 and muck out stalls. One of them, the man, agreed to everything I said while
 his wife called the sheriff.
The sheriff was a policeman, like your father.
That didn’t keep me from being scared of him, at first. He had a big red
 face. The sheriff finally put up twenty dollars for a week’s board while he
 ‘straightened things out.’ He said there was no use going for the stall in warm
 weather. The papers picked it up. There was a flap. My mother’s cousin
 agreed to let me go. I wound up going to the Lutheran Home in Bozeman.
It’s an orphanage?
Yes.
And Hannah?
She went too. A big Lutheran rancher put up the hay. They already had a
 barn at the orphanage. We plowed the garden with her. You had to watch
 where she was going, though. She’d walk through the butter-bean trellises
 and step on any kind of plant that was too short for her to feel it against her
legs. And we led her around pulling kids in a cart.
She died though.
Well, yes.
Tell me about that.
It was last year, they wrote me at school. They think she was about twenty
two. Pulled a cart full of kids the last day she lived, and died in her sleep.
How heartwarming,
Did your
 foster father in Montana fuck you, Clarice?
No.
Did he try?
No.
What made you run away with the horse?
They were going to kill her.
Did you know when?
Not exactly. I worried about it all the time. She was getting pretty fat.
What triggered you then? What set you off on that particular day?
I don’t know.
I think you do.
I had worried about it all the time.
What set you off, Clarice? You started what time?
Early. Still dark.
Then something woke you. What woke you up? Did you dream? What was
 it?
I woke up and heard the lambs screaming. I woke up in the dark and the
 lambs were screaming.
They were slaughtering the spring lambs?
Yes.
What did you do?
I couldn’t do anything for them. I was just a—
What did you do with the harseV
“I got dressed without turning on the light and went outside. She was scared.
 All the horses in the pen were scared and milling around. I blew in her nose
 and she knew it was me. Finally she’d put her nose in my hand. The lights
 were on in the barn and in the shed by the sheep pen. Bare bulbs, big
 shadows. The refrigerator truck had come and it was idling, roaring. I led her
 away.
Did you saddle her?
No. I didn’t take their saddle. Just a rope hackamore was all.
As you went off in the dark, could you hear the lambs back where the lights
 were?
Not long. There weren’t but twelve.
You still wake up sometimes, don’t you? Wake up in the iron dark with the
 lambs screaming?
Sometimes.
Do you think if you caught Buffalo Bill yourself and if you made Catherine
 all right, you could make the lambs stop screaming, do you think they’d be
 all right too and you wouldn’t wake up again in the dark and hear the lambs
 screaming? Clarice?
Yes. I don’t know. Maybe.
Thank you, Clarice.
Tell me his name, Dr. Lecter,
Dr. Chilton,
I believe you know each other.
In the elevator,
Did you know Dr. Chilton has no medical degree?
Please bear that in mind later on.
Let’s go,
You’re not in charge here, Dr. Chilton.
No, ma’am, but I am. He called my
 boss and your boss both. I’m sorry, but I’ve got orders to see you out. Come
on with me, now.
Good-bye, Clarice. Will you let me know if ever the lambs stop screaming?
Yes.
Yes,
I’ll tell you.
Do you promise?
Yes.
Then why not finish the arch? Take your case file with you, Clarice, I won’t
 need it anymore.
Thank you, Clarice.
Thank you, Dr. Lecter.
Dr. Lecter, we can get along just fine. We’ll treat you just as good as you
 treat us. Act like a gentleman and you get the Eskimo He. But we’re not
 pussyfooting around with you, buddy. Try to bite, and we’ll leave you
 smooth-mouthed. Looks like you got something good going here. You don’t
 want to fuck it up, do you?
What’s that?
Fillings,
Pull his lip back there. You’ve put some miles on
 them back ones, haven’t you, Doc?
Strikes me he’s pretty much of a broke-dick,
He won’t be no trouble if he
 don’t flip out.
you, there.
some kind of a God damned
 schoolteacher.
Dr. Lecter, you not gonna be needing your dinner jacket tonight,
I’ll ask you to sit on the floor and scoot backwards till you can just
 stick your hands out through the bars, arms extended backward. There you
 go. Scoot up a little and straighten ‘em out more behind you, elbows
 straight.
That hurts just a little bit,
 don’t it? I know it does and they won’t be on there but a minute, save us both
 a lot of trouble.
Now that was pretty easy, wasn’t it?
It was very convenient, thank you, Officer,
You know,
 I’m just trying to get by.
We all are, brother,
Tin s
Dr. Lecter. Come sit on the floor with your back to the bars like we did
 before.
Officer Pembry, would you mind if I just finish up here? I’m afraid my
 trip’s gotten my digestion a little out of sorts.
All right.
Well call down when we got it.
Can I look at him?
We’ll call you.
I’m ready when you are, Officer Pembry,
Thank you for waiting.
I’m ready if you are, Officer Pembry.
:00 P.M. Sergeant Tate himself
 was looking forward to going off duty with the eleven-to-seven shift.
 All posts reported quiet. None of the nut calls threatening Lecter had come to
 anything.
 At 6:45, Tate heard the elevator start up. He saw the bronze arrow above the
 door begin to crawl around the dial. It stopped at five.
 Tate looked around the lobby. “Did Sweeney go up for the tray?”
 “Naw, I
Phone’s busy,
Go
 ahead up and see.
Had to have lamb chops tonight, rare,
What you reckon
 he’ll want for breakfast, some fucking thing from the zoo? And who’ll have
 to catch it for him? Sweeney.
What is this shit?
CP, shots
 fired upstairs at the tower. Outside posts look sharp. We’re going up.
Hold it! Guard mount double up at your
 outside posts, first squad stays with me. Berry and Howard cover that fucking
 elevator if it comes—
First squad, here we go. Don’t pass a door without checking it. Bobby,
 outside—get a shotgun and the vests and bring ‘em up.
You turn your back on a door before you check it, 111 ream your ass.
Boyle! Pembry! Shit.
Boyle! Pembry!” He left two on the landing. “Cover the door. Vests are
 coming. Don
This one
Sarge?
Command post, two officers down. Repeat, two officers down.
 Prisoner is missing. Lecter is missing. Outside posts watch the windows,
 subject has stripped the bed, he may be making a rope. Confirm ambulances
 en route.
Pembry dead, Sarge?
Pembry’s alive.
Come here, Murray.
Get down here
 with Pembry and take ahold of him where he can feel your hands on him.
 Talk to him.
What’s his name, Sarge?
It’s Pembry, now talk to him, God dammit.
Two
 officers down, Boyle’s dead and Pembry’s bad hurt. Lecter’s missing and
 armed—he took their guns. Belts and holsters are on the desk.
Can you
 confirm the stairway clear for stretchers?
Yes sir. Call up to four before they pass. I have men on every landing.
Roger, Sergeant. Post Eight out here thought he saw some movement behind
 the windows in the main building on four. We’ve got the exits covered, he’s
 not getting out. Hold your positions on the landings. SWAT’s rolling. We’re
 gonna let SWAT flush him out. Confirm.
I understand. SWAT’s play.
What’s he got?
Two pistols and a knife, Lieutenant—Jacobs, see if there’s any ammo in the
 gunbelts.
Dump pouches,
Pembry’s still full, Boyle’s too. Dumb
 shit didn’t take the extra rounds.
What are they?
Thirty-eight +Ps JHP.
Lieutenant, it looks like he’s got two six-shot
 .38s. We heard three rounds fired and the dump pouches on the gunbelts are
 still full, so he may just have nine left. Advise SWAT it’s 4-Ps jacketed
 hollowpoints. This guy favors the face.
Stretchers coming up, Tate.
You’re just fine, Pembry, looking good,
Corpsman!
Downstairs.
Tate, I want you to clear the offices in the tower
 and seal it off. Secure the doors from the main building. Then cover from the
 landings. I
I got it, Lieutenant.
I want SWAT and nobody but SWAT in the main building. Let me have that
 back.
Don’t let your temper get your ass
 shot off.
barricaded
CP, this is Tate, the tower’s clear, over.
Roger, Tate. Captain wants you at the CP.
Ten-four. Tower lobby, you there?
Here, Sarge.
It’s me on the elevator, I’m bringing it down.
Gotcha, Sarge.
Shhhh,
Berry, Howard, he’s on the roof of
 the elevator. Keep it covered.
Okay, Johnny.
Okay, I’ll take a look now.
I see him. He’s on top of the elevator. I see a weapon beside him. He’s not
 moving.
Can you see his hands?
I see one hand, the other one’s under him. He’s got the sheets around him.
Tell him.
PUT YOUR HANDS ON TOP OF YOUR HEAD AND FREEZE,
He didn’t move, Lieutenant.… Right.
IF YOU DONT PUT YOUR HANDS ON TOP OF YOUR HEAD I’LL
 DROP A STUN GRENADE ON YOU. FLL GIVE YOU THREE
 SECONDS,
OKAY, GUYS, WATCH OUT DOWN
 THERE—HERE COMES THE GRENADE.
He didn’t move, Lieutenant.
Okay, Johnny, we’re gonna push the hatch up with a pole from outside the
 car. Can you get the drop?
Got the drop,
His arm
 moved, Lieutenant, but I think it’s just the hatch moving it.
Roger. Heave.
He hasn’t moved. His
 hand’s not on the weapon.
Okay, Johnny, hold up. We’re coming into the
car, so watch with the mirror for movement. Any fire will come from us.
 Affirm?
Got it.
He’s dead,
That’s Pembry,
He’s comatose but the vital signs are good. He’s got good pressure. One
thirty over ninety. Yeah, ninety. Pulse eighty-five. He’s got severe facial cuts
 with elevated flaps, one eye enucleated. I’ve got pressure on the face and an
 airway in place. Possible gunshot in the head, I can’t tell.
I’m scared to put much pressure on the head—he showed some convulsive
 movement before we put him on the gurney. Yeah, got him in the Fowler
 position.
Copley in Memphis.
Starling, this is baloney, but did you hand
 Lecter anything at all in Memphis?
No.
No object.
Nothing.
You took him the drawings and stuff from his cell.
I never gave it to him. The stuff’s still in my bag. He gave me the file. That’s
 all that passed between us.
Copley, that’s unmitigated
 bullshit. I want you to step on that bastard and do it now. Straight to the chief,
 straight to the TBI. See the hotline’s posted with the rest. Burroughs is on it.
 Yes.
Want some coffee, Starling? Coke?
What was that about handing things to Dr. Lecter?
Chilton’s saying you must have given Lecter something he used to slip the
 ratchet on the cuffs. You didn’t do it on purpose, he says—it was just
 ignorance.
Did Chilton try to snap your garters, Starling? Is that what’s
 the matter with him?
Maybe. I’ll take black with sugar, please.
Copley said they haven’t found the ambulance yet. Police barracks are
 turning out all over the South.
I don’t know any details. The radio just had the bulletin
 —Dr. Lecter killed two policemen and got away.
Two corrections officers.” Crawford punched up the crawling text on his
 computer screen. “Names were Boyle and Pembry. You deal with them?”
 She nodded. “They… put me out of the lockup. They were okay about it.”
 Pembry coming around Chilton, uncomfortable, determined, but country
courteous. Come on with me, now, he said. He had liver spots on his hands
 and forehead. Dead now, pale beneath his spots.
 Suddenly Starling had to put her coffee down. She filled her lungs deep and
 looked at the ceiling for a moment. “How
He got away in an ambulance, Copley said. We’ll go into it. How did you
 make out with the blotter acid?
Nothing. They’re
 trying the DEA files for a batch-match, but the stuff’s ten years old.
 Documents may do better with the printing than DEA can do with the dope.
But it was blotter acid.
Yes. How’d he do it, Mr. Crawford?
Want to know?
Then I’ll tell you. They loaded Lecter into an ambulance by mistake. They
 thought he was Pembry, badly injured.
Did he have on Pembry’s uniform? They were about the same size.
He put on Pembry’s uniform and part of Pembry’s face. And about a pound
off Boyle, too. He wrapped Pembry’s body in the waterproof mattress cover
 and the sheets from his cell to keep it from dripping and stuffed it on top of
 the elevator. He put on the uniform, got himself fixed up, laid on the floor
 and fired shots into the ceiling to start the stampede. I don’t know what he
 did with the gun, stuffed it down the back of his pants, maybe. The
 ambulance comes, cops everywhere with their guns out. The ambulance crew
 came in fast and did what they’re trained to do under fire— they stuffed in an
 airway, slapped a bandage over the worst of it, pressure to stop bleeding, and
 hauled out of there. They did their job. The ambulance never made it to the
 hospital. The police are still looking for it. I don’t feel good about those
 medics. Copley said they’re playing the dispatcher’s tapes. The ambulances
 were called a couple of times. They think Lecter called the ambulances
 himself before he fired the shots, so he wouldn’t have to lie around too long.
 Dr. Leder likes his fun.
This escape doesn’t mean Dr. Lecter was lying,
Sure, he was
 lying to somebody—us or Senator Martin—but maybe he wasn’t lying to
 both of us. He told Senator Martin it was Billy Rubin and claimed that’s all
 he knew. He told me it was somebody with delusions of being a transsexual.
 About the last thing he said to me was, ‘Why not finish the arch?’ He was
 talking about following the sex-change theory that—
I know, I saw your summary. There’s nowhere to go with that until we get
 names from the clinics. Alan Bloom’s gone personally to the department
 heads. They say they’re looking. I have to believe it.
Mr. Crawford, are you in the glue?
I’m directed to take compassionate leave,
There’s a new
 task force of FBI, DEA, and ‘additional elements’ from the Attorney
 General’s office—meaning Krendler.
Who’s boss?
Officially, FBI Assistant Director John Golby. Let’s say he and I are in close
 consultation. John’s a good man. What about you, are you in the glue?
Krendler told me to turn in my ID and the roscoe and report back to school.
That was all he did before your visit to Lecter. Starling, he sent a rocket this
afternoon to the Office of Professional Responsibility. It was a request
 ‘without prejudice’ that the Academy suspend you pending a reevaluation of
 your fitness for the service. It’s a chick-enshit backshot. The Chief Gunny,
 John Brigham, saw it in the faculty meeting at Quantico a little while ago. He
 gave ‘em an earful and got on the horn to me.
How bad is that?
You’re entitled to a hearing. I’ll vouch for your fitness and that’ll be
 enough. But if you spend any more time away, you’ll definitely be recycled,
 regardless of any finding at a hearing. Do you know what happens when
 you’re recycled?
Sure, you’re sent back to the regional office that recruited you. You get to
 file reports and make coffee until you get another spot in a class.
I can promise you a place in a later class, but I can’t keep them from
 recycling you if you miss the time.
So I go back to school and stop working on this, or…
Yeah.
What do you want me to do?
Your job was Lecter. You did it. I’m not asking you to take a recycle. It
 could cost you, maybe half a year, maybe more.
What about Catherine Martin?
He’s had her almost forty-eight hours—be forty-eight hours at midnight. If
 we don’t catch him he’ll probably do her tomorrow or the next day, if it’s like
 last time.
Lecter’s not all we had.
They got six William Rubins so far, all with priors of one kind or another.
 None of ‘em look like much. No Billy Rubins on the bug journal subscription
 lists. The Knifemakers Guild knows about five cases of ivory anthrax in the
 last ten years. We
Klaus Bjetland,
Yes, Mr. Crawford?
Go back to school.
If you didn’t want me to chase him you shouldn’t have taken me in that
 funeral home, Mr. Crawford.
No,
I suppose I shouldn’t. But then we wouldn’t have the
 insect. You don’t turn in your roscoe. Quantico’s safe enough, but you’ll be
 armed any time you’re off the base at Quantico until Lecter’s caught or
 dead.
What about you? He hates you. I mean he’s given this some thought.
Lot of people have, Starling, in a lot of jails. One of these days he might get
 around to it, but he’s way too busy now. It’s sweet to be out and he’s not
 ready to waste it that way. And this place is safer than it looks.
Okay,
They found the ambulance in the underground garage at the Memphis
 airport.
No good. Crew was in the back. Dead, both of
 them.
Starling, the Smithsonian called Burroughs asking for you. The Pilcher
 fellow. They’re pretty close to finishing up on the bug. I want you to write a
 302 on that and sign it for the permanent file. You found the bug and
 followed up on it and I want the record to say so. You up to it?
Sure,
Leave your car at the garage, and Jeff’ll drive you back to Quantico when
 you’re through.
I’m thinking about you both, Mr. Crawford.
Thank you, Starling,
Did you ever see Wilhelm von Ellenbogen?
I don’t believe I have.
You should come sometime when the lights are up and take a look at him.
 Buried him in Philadelphia in the eighteenth century? Turned right to soap
 when the ground water hit him.
Dr. Pilcher?
Here,
Will you bring this lady out?
Yes, thank you, Officer.
Hello, Officer Starling.
Dr. Pilcher.
How about ‘Professor Pilcher’?
Are you a professor?’’
 “No, but I’m not a doctor either. What I am is glad to see you. Want to look
 at some bugs?’’
 “Sure. Where’s Dr. Roden?
He made most of the progress over the last two nights with chaetaxy and
 finally he had to crash. Did you see the bug before we started on it?’’
 “No.
It was just mush, really.’’
 “But you got it, you figured it out.’’
 “Yep. Just now.’’ He stopped at a mesh cage. “First let me show you a moth
 like the one you brought in Monday. This is not exactly the same as yours,
 but the same family, an owlet.’’ The beam of his flashlight found the large
 sheeny blue moth sitting on a small branch, its wings folded. Pilcher blew air
 at it and instantly the fierce face of an owl appeared as the moth flared the
 undersides of its wings at them, the eye-spots on the wings glaring like the
 last sight a rat ever sees. ‘This one’s Caligo beltraa—fairly common. But
 with this Klaus specimen, you’re talking some heavy moths. Come on.
We keep it behind glass to protect people’s fingers—it can fight. It likes the
 damp too, and glass keeps the humidity in.
This is the Death’s-head Moth,
That’s nightshade she’s sitting on
 —we’re hoping she’ll lay.
Acherontia styx,
It’s named for two rivers in Hell. Your man,
 he drops the bodies in a river every time—did I read that?
Yes,
Is it rare?
In this part of the world it is. There aren’t any at all in nature.
Where’s it from?
Malaysia. There’s a European type too, called atropos, but this one and the
 one in Klaus’ mouth are Malaysian.
So somebody raised it.
Yes.
It had to be
 shipped from Malaysia as an egg or more likely as a pupa. Nobody’s ever
 been able to get them to lay eggs in captivity. They mate, but no eggs. The
 hard part is finding the caterpillar in the jungle. After that, they’re not hard to
 raise.
You said they can fight.
The proboscis is sharp and stout, and they’ll jam it in your finger if you fool
 with them. It’s an unusual weapon and alcohol doesn’t affect it in preserved
 specimens. That helped us narrow the field so we could identify it so fast.
They’re
 tough too,’’ he hurried on to say. “They go in beehives and Bogart honey.
 One time we were collecting in Sabah, Borneo, and they’d come to the light
 behind the youth hostel. It was weird to hear them, we’d be—
Where did this one come from?’’
 “A swap with the Malaysian government. I don’t know what we traded. It
 was funny, there we were in the dark, waiting with this cyanide bucket, when
 —
What kind of customs declaration came with this one? Do you have records
 of that? Do they have to be cleared out of Malaysia? Who would have that?’’
 “You’re in a hurry. Look, I’ve written down all the stuff we have and the
 places to put ads if you want to do that kind of thing. Come on, I’11 take you
 out.
You stayed up with this,’’ she said. “That was a good thing to do. I didn’t
 mean to be abrupt before, I just—’’
 “I hope they get him. I hope you’re through with this soon.
I put
 down a couple of chemicals he might be buying if he’s putting up soft
 specimens.… Officer Starling, I’d like to get to know you.
Maybe I should call you when I can.
You definitely should, absolutely, I’d like that,
Precious, put that down. You’ll stick yourself with a pin and then where will
 we be? I’m almost done. Yes, Darlingheart. You get a Chew-wy when we get
 through-y, you get a Chew-wy doody doody doo.
re damned right I can. Balls
 and eyes, balls and eyes, ballsandeyes. But there had been no sound from
 above as she finished washing and put on the fresh jumpsuit. There was no
 reply to her offers as the bath bucket swayed up on its flimsy string and was
 replaced by her toilet bucket.
 She waited now, hours later, listening to the sewing machine. She did not call
 out to him. In time, maybe a thousand breaths, she heard him going up the
 stairs, talking to the dog, saying something, “—breakfast when I get back.”
 He left the basement light on. Sometimes he did that.
 Toenails and footsteps on the kitchen floor above. The dog whining. She
 believed her captor was leaving. Sometimes he went away for a long time.
Breaths went by. The little dog walked around in the kitchen above, whining,
 rattling something along the floor, bonging something along the floor, maybe
 its bowl. Scratching, scratching above. And barking again, short sharp barks,
 this time not as clear as the sounds had been when the dog was above her in
 the kitchen. Because the little dog was not in the kitchen. It had nosed the
 door open and it was down in the basement chasing mice, as it had done
 before when he was out.
 Down in the dark, Catherine Martin felt beneath her mattress. She found the
 piece of chicken bone and sniffed it. It was hard not to eat the little shreds of
 meat and gristle on it. She put it in her mouth to get it warm. She stood up
 now, swaying a little in the dizzy dark. With her in the sheer pit was nothing
 but her futon, the jumpsuit she was wearing, the plastic toilet bucket and its
 flimsy cotton string stretching upward toward the pale yellow light.
 She had thought about it in every interval when she could think. Catherine
 stretched as high as she could and grasped the string. Better to jerk or to pull?
 She had thought about it through thousands of breaths. Better to pull steadily.
 The cotton string stretched more than she expected. She got a new grip as
 high as she could and pulled, swinging her arm from side to side, hoping the
 string was fraying where it passed over the wooden lip of the opening above
 her. She frayed until her shoulder ached. She pulled, the string stretching,
 now not stretching, no more stretch. Please break high. Pop, and it fell, hanks
 of it across her face.
 Squatting on the floor, the string lying on her head and shoulder, not enough
 light from the hole far above to see the string piled on her. She didn
Preeeee-cious.
Come on, Precious. Come on,
 Sweetheart.
Come on, Sweetums, come on, Precious.
Junoesque,
full-figured.
See your screen, Jack?
Just a second,
Yeah, okay.
The lab’s got it already, Jack. The drawing Lecter left in the John. The
 numbers between the letters in Chilton’s name, it’s biochemistry—
 C333H336N406—it’s the formula for a pigment in human bile called bilirubin.
 Lab advises it’s a chief coloring agent in shit.
Balls.
You were right about Lecter, Jack. He was just jerking them around. Too
 bad for Senator Martin. Lab says bilirubin’s just about exactly the color of
 Chilton’s hair. Asylum humor, they call it. Did you see Chilton on the six
 o’clock news?
No.
Marilyn Sutter saw it upstairs. Chilton was blowing off about “The Search
 for Billy Rubin.
Lecter told Starling to ‘bear in mind’ that Chilton didn’t have a medical
 degree,
Yeah I saw it in the summary. I think Chilton tried to fuck Starling’s what I
 think, and she sawed him off at the knees. He may be dumb but he ain’t
 blind. How is the kid?
Okay, I think. Worn down.
Think Lecter was jerking her off too?
Maybe. We’ll stay with it, though. I don’t know what the clinics are doing, I
 keep thinking I should’ve gone after the records in court. I hate to have to
 depend on them. Midmorning, if we haven’t heard anything, we’ll go the
 court route.
Say, Jack… you got some people outside that know what Lecter looks like,
 right?
Sure.
Don’t you know he’s laughing somewhere.
Maybe not for long,
Lloyd Wyman,
How will you be paying, Mr. Wyman?
American Express.
‘You do know, Mr.
 Wyman, you
Yes, thank you,
Want some tea?
Smart People’s Tea.
You were lucky to miss today,
That damn Kim Won ran us
 right into the ground. I’m not lying. I believe they must have more gravity in
 Korea than we do. Then they come over here and get light, see, get jobs
 teaching PE because it’s not any work for them.… John Brigham came by.
When?
Tonight, a little while ago. Wanted to know if you were back yet. He had his
 hair slicked down. Shifted around like a freshman in the lobby. We had a
 little talk. He said if you’re behind and we need to jam instead of shoot
 during the range period the next couple of days, he’ll open up the range this
 weekend and let us make it up. I said I’d let him know. He’s a nice man.
Yeah, he is.
Did you know he wants you to shoot against the DEA and Customs in the
 interservice match?
Nope.
Not the Women’s. The Open. Next question: Do you know the Fourth
 Amendment stuff for Friday?
A lot of it I do.
Okay, what’s Chimel versus California?
Searches in secondary schools.
What about school searches?
I don’t know.
It’s the ‘immediate reach’ concept. Who was Schneck-lothV
 “Hell, I don’t know.
Schneckloth versus Bustamonte.
Is it the reasonable expectation of privacy?
Boo to you. Expectation of privacy is the Katz principle. Schneckloth is
 consent to search. I can see we’ve got to jam on the books, my girl. I’ve got
the notes.
Not tonight.
No. But tomorrow you’ll wake up with your mind fertile and ignorant, and
 then we’ll begin to plant the harvest for Friday. Starling, Brigham said—he’s
 not supposed to tell, so I promised—he said you’ll beat the hearing. He thinks
 that signifying son of a bitch Kren-dler won’t remember you two days from
 now. Your grades are good, we’ll knock this stuff out easy.
You did the best anybody could for that poor soul,
 Starling. You stuck your neck out for her and you got your butt kicked for her
 and you moved things along. You deserve a chance yourself. Why don’t you
 go ahead and crash? I’m fixing to shut this down myself.
Ardelia. Thanks.
Starling?
Yeah?
Who do you think’s prettiest, Brigham or Hot Bobby Lowrance?
That
Brigham’s got a tattoo on his shoulder, I could see it through his shirt. What
 does it say?
I wouldn’t have any idea.
Will you let me know soon as you find out?
Probably not.
I told you about Hot Bobby’s python briefs.
You just saw ‘em through the window when he was lifting weights.
Did Gracie tell you that? That girl’s mouth is gonna—
Bella?
Bella, I love you, kid,
God bless you and keep you with Him… and with your folks,
Begin the Beguine.
Precious, here she comes, hereshecomes here-shecomes!
The Look of Love,
Oh, Precious. Come here to Mommy. Mommy’s gonna be so beautiful.
You ‘ve been raised better than that.
Give me a kiss,
Not you, silly,
I Never Tire, I Serve.
Tomorrow, Precious.” he told the little dog as he set the beef brains out to
 thaw. “We
Nuts.
Taps” in the cold when everyone wanted to go home.
 A few may have been recalled tearily by the officers on regimental mess
 nights, the way a man in drink remembers a good bird dog. Faded names in a
 Bible.
 None of them had been very smart, as far as Starling could tell, except for a
 great-aunt who wrote wonderfully in her diary until she got “brain fever.”
 They didn
Possible Board.
do her
 tomorrow.
Fuck this,
You’re over there corrupting a moron, aren’t you, Starling?
Sneaked him in here while I was asleep and now you’re giving him
instructions—don’t think I don’t hear you.
Sorry, Ardelia, I didn’t—
You’ve got to be a lot more specific with ‘em than that, Starling. You can’t
 just say what you said. Corrupting morons is just like journalism, you’ve got
 to tell ‘em What, When, Where, and How. I think Why gets self-explanatory
 as you go along.
Have you got any laundry?
I thought you said did I have any laundry.
Yep, I think I’ll run a load. Whatcha got?
Just those sweats on the back of the door.
Okay. Shut your eyes, I’m gonna turn on the light for just a second.
I have to tell you, Starling, the market in Lecter information is way down.
Did Jack call you about Billy Rubin?
No.
I don’t know,
Jack says they’ll go on with the sex-change
 clinics, but how hard? If you look at the information in the computer, the way
 the field entries are styled, you can see that all the Lecter information, yours
 and the stuff from Memphis, has special prefixes. All the Baltimore stuff or
 all the Memphis stuff or both can be knocked out of consideration with one
 button. I think Justice wants to push the button on all of it. I got a memo here
 suggesting the bug in Klaus’ throat was, let’s see, ‘flotsam.’
You’ll punch this up for Mr. Crawford, though,
Sure, I’ll put it on his screen, but we’re not calling him right now. You
 shouldn’t either. Bella died a little while ago.
Oh,
Listen, on the bright side, our guys in Baltimore took a look at Lecter’s cell
 in the asylum. That orderly, Barney, helped out. They got brass grindings off
 a bolt head in Lecter’s cot where he made his handcuff key. Hang in there,
 kid. You’re gonna come out smelling like a rose.
Thank you, Mr. Burroughs. Good night.
desperately random
first
Simplicity,
first,
First principles
First principles
So what are you saying, Starling?
Maybe he lives in Belvedere, Ohio, where the first victim lived. Maybe he
 saw her every day, and he killed her sort of spontaneously. Maybe he just
 meant to . .. give her a ‘-Up and talk about the choir. So he did a good job of
 hiding the body and then he grabbed another one far from home. He didn’t
 hide that one very well, so it would be found first and the attention would be
 directed away from him. You know how much attention a missing-person
 report gets, it gets zip until the body’s found.
Starling, the return’s better where the trail is fresh, people remember better,
 witnesses—
That’s what I’m saying. He knows that.
For instance, you won’t be able to sneeze today without spraying a cop in
 that last one’s hometown— Kimberly Emberg from Detroit. Lot of interest in
 Kimberly Emberg all of a sudden since little Martin disappeared. All of a
 sudden they’re working the hell out of it. You never heard me say that.
Will you put it up for Mr. Crawford, about the first town?
Sure. Hell, Til put it on the hotline for everybody. I’m not saying it’s bad
 thinking, Starling, but the town was picked over pretty good as soon as the
 woman— what’s her name, Bimmel, is it?—as soon as Bimmel was
 identified. The Columbus office worked Belvedere, and so did a lot of locals.
 You’ve got it all there. You’re not gonna raise much interest in Belvedere or
 any other theory of Dr. Lecter’s this morning.
All he—
Starling, we’re sending a gift to UNICEF for Bella. You want in, I’ll put
 your name on the card.
Sure, thanks Mr. Burroughs.
Send me.
Forgive me.
I wouldn’t come now if there were any other
 time. Send me.
Send you where?’’
 “You sent me to get a feel for Catherine Martin—let me go to the others. All
 we’ve got left is to find out how he hunts. How he finds them, how he picks
 them. I’m as good as anybody you’ve got at the cop stuff, better at some
 things. The victims are all women and there aren’t any women working this. I
 can walk in a woman’s room and know three times as much about her as a
 man would know, and you know that’s a fact. Send me.’
You ready to accept a recycle?
Yes.
Six months of your life, probably.
Who would you start
 with?
The first one. Fredrica Bimmel, Belvedere, Ohio.
Not Kimberly Emberg, the one you saw.
He didn’t start with her.
Emberg would be the emotional choice, wouldn’t she, Starling? Travel’s by
 reimbursement. Got any money?
I’ve got some left on my Visa.
Go, Starling. Just to the first one. Post the hotline. Call me.
Baby needs a new pair of shoes,
My baby doesn’t need any
 shoes.
Precious, come on Precious. Busybusy day. Come on, Sweetheart.
Precious.
Precious!
Precious!
She’s down here you son of a bitch,
Precious, are you all right? Answer me.
How’s that?
I’ll lower a basket. You’ll put her in it.
You’ll lower a telephone or I’ll have to break her neck. I don’t want to hurt
 you, I don’t want to hurt this little dog. Just give me the telephone.
You shoot motherfucker you better kill me quick or I’ll break her fucking
 neck. I swear to God.
Back off, you son of a bitch.
I
 didn’t mean to insult you.
Just lower me a phone. I want a live
 phone. You can go away, I don’t care about you, I never saw you. I’ll take
 good care of Precious.
No.
I’ll see she has everything. Think about her welfare, not just yourself. You
 shoot in here, shell be deaf whatever happens. All I want’s a live telephone.
 Get a long extension, get five or six and clip them together— they come with
 the connections on the ends—and lower it down here. I’d air-freight you the
 dog anywhere. My family has dogs. My mother loves dogs. You can run, I
 don’t care what you do.
You won’t get any more water, you’ve had your last water.
She won’t get any either, and I won’t give her any from my water bottle. I’m
 sorry to tell you, I think her leg’s broken.
She’s in pain. Her leg’s all
 crooked and she’s trying to lick it. It just makes me sick,
I’ve got to get her to a vet.
You think
 she’s in pain,
You don’t know what pain is. You hurt her
 and I’ll scald you.
I don’t know nothing new to tell you.
The policemen come back
 here night before last. They went back over my statement with me again.
 Read it back to me. ‘Is that right? Is that right?’ I told him, I said hell yes, if
 that wasn’t right I wouldn’t have told you in the first place.
I’m trying to get an idea where the—get an idea where the kidnapper might
 have seen Fredrica, Mr. Bimmel. Where he might have spotted her and
 decided to take her away.
She went into Columbus on the bus to see about a job at that store there. The
 police said she got to the interview all right. She never came home. We don’t
 know where else she went that day. The FBI got her Master Charge slips, but
 there wasn’t nothing for that day. You know all that, don’t you?
About the credit card, yes sir, I do. Mr. Bimmel, do you have Fredrica’s
 things, are they here?
 “Her room’s in the top of the house.
May I see?
All right,
come along.
Jack, we’re all thinking about you. Everybody
 appreciates you coming in. Has the service been set yet?
The wake’s tomorrow evening. Service is Saturday at eleven o’clock.
There’s a UNICEF memorial, Jack, a fund. You want it to
 read Phyllis or Bella, we’ll do it any way you like.
Bella, John. Let’s make it Bella.
Can I do anything for you, Jack?
I’m just working. I’m just gonna work now.
Right,
Frederick Chilton asked
 for federal protective custody.
Grand. John, is somebody in Baltimore talking to Everett Yow, Raspail’s
 lawyer? I mentioned him to you. He might know something about Raspail’s
 friends.
Yeah, they’re on it this morning. I just sent Burroughs my memo on it. The
 Director’s putting Lecter on the Most Wanted. Jack, if you need anything : .
 .
Bella
Mr. Crawford, a Dr. Danielson from—
Right.
Jack Crawford, Doctor.
Is this line secure, Mr. Crawford?
Yes. On this end it is.
You’re not taping, are you?
‘No, Dr. Danielson. Tell me what
I want to make it clear this has nothing to do with anybody who was ever a
 patient at Johns Hopkins.
Understood.
If anything comes of it, I want you to make it clear to the public he’s not a
 transsexual, he had nothing to do with this institution.
Fine. You got it. Absolutely.
He shoved Dr. Purvis down.
Who, Dr. Danielson?
He applied to the program three years ago as John Grant of Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania.
Description?
Caucasian male, he was thirty-one. Six feet one, a hundred and ninety
 pounds. He came to be tested and did very well on the Wechsler intelligence
 scale— bright normal—but the psychological testing and the interviews were
 another story. In fact, his House-Tree-Person and his TAT were spot-on with
 the sheet you gave me. You let me think Alan Bloom authored that little
theory, but it was Hannibal Lecter, wasn’t it?
Go on with Grant, Doctor.
The board would have turned him down anyway, but by the time we met to
 discuss it, the question was moot because the background checks got him.
Got him how.
We routinely check with the police in an applicant’s hometown. The
 Harrisburg police were after him for two assaults on homosexual men. The
 last one nearly died. He’d given us an address that turned out to be a boarding
 house he stayed in from time to time. The police got his fingerprints there and
 a credit-card gas receipt with his license number on it. His name wasn’t John
 Grant at all, he’d just told us that. About a week later he waited outside the
 building here and shoved Dr. Purvis down, just for spite.
What was his name, Dr. Danielson?
I’d better spell it for you, it’s J-A-M-E G-U-M-B.
My wife.
We just got
 married Christmas.
Hello,
We’re moving pretty soon,
You want me anymore?
Later, I’d like to talk to you, Mr. Bimmel. What about Fredrica’s mother?
deceased,
What do you mean, what about her? She died when Fredrica was twelve.
Did you think that was Fredrica
Mr. Bimmel, is the room pretty much like Fredrica left it?
Yah,
We just left it alone. Nobody much could wear her
 stuff. Plug in the heater if you want it. Remember and unplug it before you
 come down.
 begin to
 covet with imagined things. Coveting is a very literal sin-—we begin to covet
 with tangibles, we begin with what we see every day. He saw Fredrica in the
 course of his daily life. He saw her in the course of her daily life.
 What was the course of Fredrica s daily life? All right…
 Starling pushed the door open. Here it was, this still room smelling of mildew
 in the cold. On the wall, last year
To a great pal.” and a “great
 gal” and “my chemistry buddy.” and ‘‘Remember the bake sale?!!
skins,
cunts.
come to New York City, where you can
meet newcomers from parts of the world where your size is considered a
 prized asset.
you could travel to Italy or Germany,
 where you won’t be alone after the first day.
prized asset.
green outfit?
He’s making himself a girl suit out of real girls.
Do you sew, Clarice?
Clarice Starling.
Jerry Burroughs, Starling—
Good, Jerry, listen I think Buffalo Bill can sew. He cut the triangles—just a
sec—Mrs. Bimmel, could I ask you to take the baby in the kitchen? I need to
 talk here. Thank you.… Jerry, he can sew. He took—
Starling—
He took those triangles off of Kimberly Emberg to make darts, dressmaking
 darts, do you know what I’m saying? He’s skilled, he’s not just making
 caveman stuff. ID Section can search Known Offenders for tailors,
 sailmakers, drapers, upholsterers—run a scan on the Distinguishing Marks
 field for a tailor’s notch in his teeth—
Right, right, right, I’m punching up a line now to ID. Now listen up—I may
 have to get off the phone here. Jack wanted me to brief you. We got a name
 and a place that looks not bad. The Hostage Rescue Team’s airborne from
 Andrews. Jack’s briefing them on the scrambler.
Going where?
Calumet City, edge of Chicago. Subject’s Jame, like ‘Name’ with a j, last
 name Gumb, a.k.a. John Grant, WM, thirty-four, one-ninety, brown and blue.
 Jack got a beep from Johns Hopkins. Your thing—your profile on how he’d
 be different from a transsexual—it rang the cherries at Johns Hopkins. Guy
 applied for sex reassignment three years ago. Roughed up a doctor after they
 turned him down. Hopkins had the Grant alias and a flop address in
 Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. The cops had a gas receipt with his tag number and
 we went from there. Big jacket in California as a juvenile —he killed his
 grandparents when he was twelve and did six years in Tulare Psychiatric. The
 state let him out sixteen years ago when they shut down the asylum. He
 disappeared a long time. He’s a fag-basher. Had a couple of scrapes in
 Harrisburg and faded out again.
Chicago, you said. How do you know Chicago?
Customs. They had some paper on the John Grant alias. Customs stopped a
 suitcase at LAX a couple of years ago shipped from Surinam with live
 ‘pupae’—is that how you say it?—insects anyway, moths, in it. The
 addressee was John Grant, care of a business in Calumet called—get this—
 called ‘Mr. Hide.’ Leather goods. Maybe the sewing fits with that; I’m
 relaying the sewing to Chicago and Calumet. No home address yet on Grant,
 or Gumb—the business is closed, but we’re close,
Any pictures?
Just the juveniles from Sacramento PD so far. They’re not much use—he
 was twelve. Looked like Beaver Cleaver. The wire room’s faxing them
 around anyway.
Can I go?
No. Jack said you’d ask. They’ve got two female marshals from Chicago
 and a nurse to take charge of Martin if they get her. You’d never be in time
 anyway, Starling.
What if he’s barricaded? It could take—
There won’t be any standoff. They find him, they fall on him—Crawford’s
 authorized an explosive entry Special problems with this guy, Starling, he’s
 been in a hostage situation before. His juvenile homicides, they got him in a
 barricade situation in Sacramento with his grandmother as hostage—he’d
 already killed his grandfather—and it came out gruesome, let me tell you. He
 walked her out in front of the cops, they had this preacher talking to him.
 He’s a kid, nobody took the shot. He was behind her and he did her kidneys.
 Medical attention no avail. At twelve, he did this. So this time no
 negotiations, no warning. Martin’s probably dead already, but say we’re
 lucky. Say he had a lot on his mind, one thing and another he didn’t get
 around to it yet. If he sees us coming, he’ll do her right in our faces for spite.
 Costs him nothing, right? So they find him and—Itoom!—the door’s down.
We’re looking for both names on the
 entomology magazine subscription lists, Knifemakers Guild, known
 offenders, the works—nobody stands down until it’s over. You’re doing
 Bim-mel’s acquaintances, right?
Right.
Justice says it’s a tricky case to make if we don’t catch him dirty We need
 him with Martin or with something identifiable—something with teeth or
 fingers, frankly. Goes without saying, if he’s dumped Martin already, we
 need witnesses to put him with a victim before the fact. We can use your stuff
 from
 Bimmel regardless——-Starling, I wish to God this had
 happened yesterday for more reasons than the Martin kid. They throw the
 switch on you at Quantico?
I think so. They put in somebody else that was waiting out a recycle—that’s
 what they tell me.
If we get him in Chicago, you made a lot of contribution here. They’re
 hardasses af Quantico like they’re supposed to be, but they have to see that.
 Wait a minute.
Nothing—they can deploy in Calumet City in forty to fifty-five, depends on
 the winds aloft. Chicago SWAT’s deputized in case they find him sooner.
 Calumet Power and Light’s come up with four possible addresses. Starling,
 watch for anything they can use up there to narrow it down. You see anything
 about Chicago or Calumet, get to me fast.
Righto.
Now listen—this and I gotta go. If it happens, if we get him in Calumet
 City, you fall in at Quantico 0800 mamma with your Mary Janes shined.
 Jack’s going before the board with you. So is the chief gunny, Brigham. It
 don’t hurt to ask.
Jerry, one other thing: Fredrica Bimmel had some warmups made by Juno,
 it’s a brand of fat clothes. Catherine Martin had some too, for what it’s worth.
 He might watch fat stores to find large victims. We could ask Memphis,
 Akron, the other places.
Got it. Keep smiling.
Squab,
Ever eat squab?
No,
I’ve eaten doves.
Never have to worry about biting on a shot in these.
Mr. Bimmel, did Fredrica know anybody from Calumet City or the Chicago
 area?
Had she ever been to Chicago, to your knowledge?
What do you mean, ‘to my knowledge?’ You think a girl of mine’s going off
 to Chicago and I don’t know it? She didn’t go to Columbus I didn’t know it.
Did she know any men that sew, tailors or sailmak-ere?
She sewed for everybody. She could sew like her mother. I don’t know of
 any men. She sewed for stores, for ladies, I don’t know who.
Who was her best friend, Mr. Bimmel? Who did she hang out with?
mean to say “hang.”Good, it didn
$ just pissed off.
 “She didn
/Who would you say was her best friend?” “Stacy Hubka, I
 guess, since they were little. Fre
drica
Do you know where I could get in touch with her?
Stacy worked
 at the insurance, I guess she still does.
 The Franklin Insurance.
Stacy—may I call you Stacy?
Sure.
I’d like you to tell me, Stacy, how you think this might have happened to
 Fredrica Bimmel—where this man might have spotted Fredrica.
Freaked me out. Get your skin peeled off, is that a bummer? Did you see
 her? They said she was just like rags, like somebody let the air out of—
Stacy, did she ever mention anybody from Chicago or Calumet City?
Chicago?
No, we marched at Chicago one time in the
 Thanksgiving parade.
When?
Eighth grade, that would be what?—nine years ago. The band just went
 there and back on the bus.
What did you think last spring when she first disappeared?
I just didn’t know.
Remember Where you were when you first found it out? When you got the
 news? What did you think then?
That first night she was gone, Skip and me went to the show and then we
 went to Mr. Toad’s for a drink and Pam and them, Pam Malavesi, came in
and said Fredrica had disappeared, and Skip goes, Houdini couldn’t make
 Fredrica disappear. And then he’s got to tell everybody who Houdini was,
 he’s always showing off how much he knows, and we just sort of blew it off.
 I thought she was just mad at her dad. Did you see her house? Is that the pits?
 I mean, wherever she is, I know she’s embarrassed you saw it. Wouldn’t you
 run away?
Did you think maybe she’d run away with somebody, did anybody pop into
 your mind—even if it was wrong?
Skip said maybe she’d found her a chubby-chaser. But no, she never had
 anybody like that. She had one boyfriend, but that’s like ancient history. He
 was in the band in the tenth grade, I say ‘boyfriend’ but they just talked and
 giggled like a couple of girls and did homework. He was a big sissy though,
 wore one of these little Greek fisherman’s caps? Skip thought he was a, you
 know, a queer. She got kidded about going out with a queer. Him and his
 sister got killed in a car wreck though, and she never got anybody else.
What did you think when she didn’t come back?
Pam thought maybe it was some Moonies got her, I didn’t know, I was
 scared every time I thought about it. I wouldn’t any more go out at night
 without Skip, I told him, I said uh-uh, buddy, when the sun goes down, we go
 out.
Did you ever hear her mention anybody named Jame Gumb? Or John
 Grant?
Ummmm… no.
Do you think she could have had a friend you didn’t know about? Were
 there gaps in time, days when you didn’t see her?
No. She had a guy, I’d of known, believe me. She never had a guy.
Do you think it might be just possible, let’s say, she could have had a friend
 and didn’t say anything about it?
Why wouldn’t she?
Scared she’d get kidded, maybe?
Kidded by us? What are you saying, because of the other time? The sissy
 kid in high school?
No. No way we would hurt her. I just
 mentioned that together. She didn’t… everybody was like, kind to her after
 he died.
Did you work with Fredrica, Stacy?
Me and her and Pam Malavesi and Jaronda Askew all worked down at the
 Bargain Center summers in high school. Then Pam and me went to Richards’
 to see could we get on, it’s real nice clothes, and they hired me and then Pam,
 so Pam says to Fredrica come on they need another girl and she came, but
 Mrs. Burdine—the merchandising manager?—she goes, ‘Well, Fredrica, we
 need somebody that, you know, people can relate to, that they come in and
 say I want to look like her, and you can give them advice how they look in
 this and stuff. And if you get yourself together and lose your weight I want
 you to come right back here and see me,’ she says, ‘But right now, if you
 want to take over some of our alterations I’11 try you at that, I’ll put in a
 word with Mrs. Lippman.’ Mrs. Burdine talked in this sweety voice but she
 turned out to be a bitch really, but I didn’t know it right at first.
So Fredrica did alterations for Richards’, the store where you worked?
It hurt her feelings, but sure. Old Mrs. Lippman did everybody’s alterations.
 She had the business and she had more than she could do, and Fredrica
 worked for her. She did them for old Mrs. Lippman. Mrs. Lippman sewed for
 everybody, made dresses. After Mrs. Lippman retired, her kid or whatever
 didn’t want to do it and Fredrica got it all and just kept sewing for everybody.
 That’s all she did. She’d meet me and Pam, we’d go to Pam’s house on lunch
 and watch ‘The Young and the Restless’ and she’d bring something and be
 working in her lap the whole time.
Did Fredrica ever work at the store, taking measurements? Did she meet
 customers or the wholesale people?
Sometimes, not much. I didn’t work every day.
Did Mrs. Burdine work every day, would she know?
Yeah, I guess.
Did Fredrica ever mention sewing for a company called Mr. Hide in
 Chicago or Calumet City, maybe lining leather goods?
I don’t know, Mrs. Lippman might have.
Did you ever see the Mr. Hide brand? Did Richards’ ever carry it, or one of
 the boutiques?
No.
Do you know where Mrs. Lippman is? I’d like to talk to her.
She died. She went to Florida to retire and she died down there, Fredrica
 said. I never did know her, me and Skip just picked up Fredrica over there
 sometimes when she had a bunch of clothes. You might could talk to her
 family or something. Ill write it down for you.
Stacy, where did Fredrica buy clothes, where did she get those oversize Juno
 workout clothes, the sweats?
She made just about everything. I expect she got the sweats at Richards’,
 you know, when everybody started wearing them real big, so they came
 down over tights like that? A lots of places carried them then. She got a
 discount at Richards’ because she sewed for them.
Did she ever shop at an oversize store?
We went in every place to look, you know how you do. We’d go in
 Personality Plus and she’d look for ideas, you know, flattering patterns for
 big sizes.
Did anybody ever come up and bug you around an oversize store, or did
 Fredrica ever feel somebody had his eye on her?
Stacy, did transvestites ever come into Richards’, or men buying large
 dresses, did you ever run into that?
No. Me and Skip saw some at a bar in Columbus one time.
Was Fredrica with you?
Not hardly. We’d gone, like, for the weekend.
Would you write down the oversize places you went with Fredrica, do you
 think you could remember all of them?
Just here, or here and Columbus?
Here and Columbus. And Richards’ too, I want to talk to Mrs. Burdine.
Okay. Is it a pretty good job, being a FBI agent?
I think it is.
You get to travel around and stuff? I mean places better than this.
Sometimes you do.
Got to look good every day, right?
Well, yeah. You have to try to look businesslike.
How do you get into that, being a FBI agent?
You have to go to college first, Stacy.
That’s tough to pay for.
Yeah, it is. Sometimes there are grants and fellowships that help out,
 though. Would you like me to send you some stuff?
Yeah. I was just thinking, Fredrica was so happy for me when I got this job.
 She really got her rocks off—she never had a real office job—she thought
 this was getting somewhere. This—cardboard files and Barry Mani-low on
 the speakers all day—she thought it was hot shit. What did she know, big
 dummy.
How about my list now?
I better do it at my desk, I got my word processor and I need my phone book
 and stuff.
Gentlemen, our ground transportation’s courtesy of DEA undercover.
 They’ve got a florist’s truck and a plumbing van. So Vernon, Eddie, into your
 long handles and your civvies. If we go in behind stun grenades, remember
 you’ve got no flash protection on your faces.
Make sure you cover up your cheeks.
Did he say don’t moon? I thought he said don’t flash.
Bobby, make sure and put one of your handsets in each van for the driver, so
 we don’t get fucked up talking to those DEA guys,
Guys, they got it down to two addresses. We
 take the best one and Chicago SWAT’s on the other.
‘You might want to deliver this.” he said. “Welcome to Chicago.”
 CHAPTER 56
 Mr. Gumb went ahead with it in the late afternoon.
 With dangerous steady tears standing in his eyes, he
Elizabethan collar
I tried the front but nobody came,
I’m looking for
Mrs. Lippman’s family, could you help me?
They don’t live here,
Excuse me, but I need to talk to you. I want to find the family
 of Mrs. Lippman. I know she lived here. I want you to help me, please.
Mrs. Lippman’s been dead for ages. She didn’t have any relatives that I
 know of.
What about a lawyer, or an accountant? Somebody who’d have her business
 records? Did you know Mrs. Lippman?
Just briefly. What’s the problem?
I’m investigating the death of Fredrica Bimmel. Who are you, please?
Jack Gordon.
Did you know Fredrica Bimmel when she worked for Mrs. Lippman?
No. Was she a great, fat person? I may have seen her, I’m not sure. I didn’t
 mean to be rude—I was sleeping___Mrs. Lippman had a lawyer/I may have
 his card
 somewhere, I’ll see if I can find it. Do you mind stepping in? I’m freezing
 and my cat will streak through here in a second. She’ll be outside like a shot
 before I can catch her.
That horrible business,
I shiver every time I
 think about it. Are they close to catching somebody, do you think?
Not yet, but we’re working. Mr. Gordon, did you take over this place after
 Mrs. Lippman died?
Yes.
Were there any records left here? Business records?
No, nothing at all. Does the FBI have any ideas? The police here don’t seem
to know the first thing. Do they have a description, or fingerprints?
Here’s the number,
Good, thank you. Mr. Gordon, do you have a telephone I could use?
I have a cordless
 phone in the pantry, I’11 get it for you.
Freeze.
Now. Slowly. Put up your hands.
Mr. Gub— Mr. Gumb, you’re under arrest. I want you to walk slowly
 outside for me.
FBI, you’re safe.
Safe SHIT, he’s got a gun. Getmeout. GETME-OUT.
Catherine, you’ll be all right. Shut up. Do you know where he is?
GETMEOUT, I DON’T GIVE A SHIT WHERE HE IS, GETMEOUT.
I’ll get you out. Be quiet. Help me. Be quiet so I can hear. Try and shut that
 dog up.
Catherine. Catherine. Is there a ladder?
I don’t know, I woke up down here. He let the bucket down on strings.
Catherine, I have to find something to get you out with. Can you walk?
Yes. Don’t leave me.
I have to leave the room for just a minute.
You fucking bitch don’t you leave me down here, my mother will tear your
 goddamn shit brains out—
Catherine shut up. I want you to be quiet so I can hear. To save yourself be
 quiet, do you understand?
The other officers will be here any
 minute, now shut up. We won’t leave you down there.
Surprise!
How… does… it feel… to be… so beautiful?
Catherine, he’s dead. He can’t hurt you. I’m going
 upstairs and call—
No! GET ME OUT. GET ME OUT. GET ME OUT.
Look here. He’s dead. This is his gun. Remember it? I’m going to call the
 police and the fire department. I’m afraid to hoist you out myself, you might
 fall. Soon as I call them I’ll come back down and wait with you. Okay?
 Okay. Try to shut that dog up. Okay? Okay.
Hey, Sport.
You check anything?
Jeff’s outside in the van. Let’s go home.
I…
You know what you did. You hit a home run, kid.
What’s this?
Burnt gunpowder. The doctor said it’ll work out by itself in a couple of days
 —better than digging for it.
You know what you did,
Go home. Go to sleep. Sleep in.
 IT1 talk to you tomorrow.
Ahhh,
Don’t spill that in here,
Don’t worry, Jeff,
You should have seen
 my man Jeff waiting for me outside the liquor store. He looked like he was
 passing peach seeds.
How you doing,
 Starling?
Ardelia, I’m damned if I know.
You don’t have to go back, do you?
Maybe for one day next week, but I hope not. The U.S. Attorney came over
 from Columbus to talk to the Belvedere cops. I did depositions out the
 wazoo.
Couple of good things,
Senator Martin’s been on the phone all
evening from Bethesda— you knew they took Catherine to Bethesda? Well,
 she’s okay. He didn’t mess her up in any physical way. Emotional damage,
 they don’t know, they have to watch. Don’t worry about school. Crawford
 and Brigham both called. The hearing’s canceled. Krendler asked for his
 memo back. These people have got a heart like a greasy BB, Starling—you
 get no slack. You don’t have to take the Search-and-Seizure exam at 0800
 tomorrow, but you take it Monday, and the PE test right after. We’ll jam over
 the weekend.
That Richer, Doctor Pilcher at the Smithsonian, called three times. Made me
 promise to tell you he called.
He
You think you might do something about him?
Maybe. I don’t know yet.
He sounds like he’s pretty funny. I’ve about decided funny’s the best thing
 in men, I’m talking about aside from money and your basic manageability.
Yeah, and manners too, you can’t leave that out.
Right. Give me a son of a bitch with some manners every time.
What’s going on in the yard?
Dungeon of Horrors.
Good morning, Starling.
Hello,
The U.S. Attorney in Columbus faxed me your depositions overnight.
 You’ll have to sign some copies
 for him___So you went from Fredrica Bimmel’s house
 to Stacy Hubka, and then to the Burdine woman at the store Bimmel sewed
 for, Richards’ Fashions, and Mrs. Burdine gave you Mrs. Lippman’s old
 address, the building there.
Stacy Hubka had been by the place a couple of times to
 pick up Fredrica, but Stacy’s boyfriend was driving and her directions were
 vague. Mrs. Burdine had the address.
Mrs. Burdine never mentioned a man at Mrs. Lippman’s?
No.
Catherine was rational last night, yes. She’s sleeping, she’s sedated right
 now. We’re counting our blessings. No, as I said before, she’s suffering from
 shock, but she’s rational. Just bruises, and her finger is broken. And she’s
 dehydrated as well. Thank you.
Thank
 you. No, she mentioned the dog to me last night, I don’t know what we’ll do
 about it, we already have two dogs.
How’re you hittin’ ‘em, Starling?
Kind of numb… you too?
Senator Martin’s been on the
 phone overnight. She wants to come see you. Catherine does too, as soon as
 she can travel.
I’m always home.
Krendler too, he wants to come down here. He asked for his memo back.
Come to think of it, I’m not always home.
Here’s some free advice. Use Senator Martin. Let her tell you how grateful
 she is, let her hand you the markers. Do it soon. Gratitude has a short half
life. You’ll need her one of these days, the way you act.
That’s what Ardelia says.
Your roomie, Mapp? The Superintendent told me Mapp’s set to cram you
 for your makeup exams on Monday. She just pulled a point and a half ahead
 of her archrival, Stringfellow, he tells me.
For valedictorian?
He’s tough, though, Stringfellow—he’s saying she can’t hold him off.
He best bring his lunch.
Lecter’s gone platinum—he’s at the top of everybody’s Most Wanted list.
Still, he could be out for a while. Off the post, you need some good
 habits.
He’s busy now,
but when he’s not busy, he’ll entertain
 himself. We need to be clear on this: You know he’d do it to you, just like
 he’d do anybody else.
I don’t think he’d ever bushwhack me—it’s rude, and he wouldn’t get to ask
 any questions that way. Sure he’d do it as soon as I bored him.
Maintain good habits is all I’m saying. When you go off the post, flag your
 three-card—no phone queries on your whereabouts without positive ID. I
 want to put a trace-alert on your telephone, if you don’t mind. It’ll be private
 unless you push the button.
I don’t look for him to come after me, Mr. Crawford.
But you heard what I said.
I did. I did hear.
Take these depositions and look ‘em over. Add if you want to. We
Starling, your father sees
 you.
Jame
When Lecter read that the first victim was from Belvedere and she was
 flayed, he knew who was doing it,
He’d have given you Gumb and looked like a genius if
 Chilton had stayed out of it.
He hinted to me by writing in the file that the sites were too random,
And in Memphis he asked me if I sew. What did he want to
 happen?
He wanted to amuse himself,
He’s been amusing himself
for a long, long time.
‘Dearest Secret Friend in my Breast, I love you!—I
 didn
Bride of Dracula
So what did Richer say on the phone?
He and his sister have this place on the Chesa- . peake.
Yeah, and?
His sister’s there with her kids and dogs and maybe her husband.
So?
They
Cut to the chase.
Pilch has the other end of the house. Next weekend, he wants us to go. Lots
 of rooms, he says. ‘As many rooms as anybody might need/ I believe is the
 way he put it. His sister would call and invite me, he said.
No kidding. I didn’t know people did that anymore.
He did this nice scenario—no hassles, bundle up and walk on the beach,
 come in and there’s a fire going, dogs jump all over you with their big sandy
 paws.
Idyllic, umm-humm, big sandy paws, go on.”
 “It
Pitcher’s setting you up for the old dog-suit trick, you snapped to that didn’t
 you?
He claims to be a good cook. His sister says he is.
Oh, she called already.
Yep.
How’d she sound?
Okay. Sounded like she was in the other end of the house.
What did you tell her?
I said, ‘Yes, thank you very much,’ is what I said.
Good,
That’s very good. Eat some crabs. Grab Pilcher and
 smooch him on his face, go wild.
Come.
Tut it by the windows. May I see the wine?”
 The waiter brought it. The gentleman held it under the light of his desk lamp,
 touched the neck to his cheek.
 “Open it, but leave it off the ice.” he said, and wrote a generous tip across the
 bottom of the bill. “I won
South American
 Splendor
A
 Fever
Ash-Wednesday
