Hey.
Hey yourself,
I’m Charles Baker Harris,
I can read.
So what?
I just thought you’d like to know I can read. You got anything needs readin‘ I 
can do it…
How old are you,
four-and-a-half?
Goin‘ on seven.
Shoot no wonder, then,
Scout yonder’s 
been readin‘ ever since she was born, and she ain’t even started to school yet. You 
look right puny for goin’ on seven.
I’m little but I’m old,
Why don’t you come over, 
Charles Baker Harris?
Lord, what a name.
‘s not any funnier’n yours. Aunt Rachel says your name’s Jeremy Atticus Finch.
I’m big enough to fit mine,
Your name’s longer’n you 
are. Bet it’s a foot longer.
Folks call me Dill,
Do better if you go over it instead of under it,
Where’d you come from?
Don’t have any picture shows here, except Jesus ones in the courthouse 
sometimes,
Ever see anything good?
Tell it to us,
You ain’t said anything about him.
I haven’t got one.
Is he dead?
No…
Then if he’s not dead you’ve got one, haven’t you?
swept
bought cotton,
He-y,
Mm, 
mm, mm.
Good morning, sir,
There goes the meanest man ever God blew breath into,
bought cotton,
Wonder what he does in there,
Looks like he’d just stick 
his head out the door.
He goes out, all right, when it’s pitch dark. Miss Stephanie Crawford 
said she woke up in the middle of the night one time and saw him looking straight 
through the window at her… said his head was like a skull lookin‘ at her. Ain’t 
you ever waked up at night and heard him, Dill? He walks like this-
Why do you think Miss Rachel locks up so tight at 
night? I’ve seen his tracks in our back yard many a mornin’, and one night I heard 
him scratching on the back screen, but he was gone time Atticus got there.
Wonder what he looks like?
Let’s try to make him come out,
I’d like to see what he looks like.
You’re scared,
Ain’t 
scared, just respectful,
You’re too scared even 
to put your big toe in the front yard.
Always runnin‘,
I hope you’ve got it through your head that he’ll kill us each and every one, Dill 
Harris,
Don’t blame me when he gouges your 
eyes out. You started it, remember.
You’re still scared,
It’s 
just that I can’t think of a way to make him come out without him gettin‘ us.
If I got killed, what’d become 
of you?
You gonna run out on a dare?
If you are, then-
Dill, you have to think about these things,
Lemme think a minute… 
it’s sort of like making a turtle come out…
How’s that?
Strike a match under him.
Ain’t hateful, just persuades him—‘s not like you’d chunk him in the fire,
How do you know a match don’t hurt him?
Turtles can’t feel, stupid,
Were you ever a turtle, huh?
My stars, Dill! Now lemme think… reckon we can rock him…
I won’t say you 
ran out on a dare an‘ I’ll swap you The Gray Ghost if you just go up and touch the 
house.
Touch the house, that all?
Sure that’s all, now? I don’t want you hollerin‘ something different the minute I 
get back.
Yeah, that’s all,
He’ll probably come out after you when he sees you 
in the yard, then Scout’n‘ me’ll jump on him and hold him down till we can tell 
him we ain’t gonna hurt him.
Well go on,
Scout and me’s right behind you.
I’m going,
don’t hurry me.
You mean we can’t play any more?
We’ll do like we always do at home,
but you’ll see—school’s 
different.
This says I am Miss 
Caroline Fisher. I am from North Alabama, from Winston County.
Oh, my, wasn’t that nice?
Does anybody know what these are?
Teach me?
He hasn’t taught me anything, Miss Caroline. 
Atticus ain’t got time to teach me anything,
Why, he’s so tired at night he just sits in the livingroom and 
reads.
If he didn’t teach you, who did?
Somebody did. You weren’t born reading The Mobile Register.
Jem says I was. He read in a book where I was a Bullfinch instead of a Finch. 
Jem says my name’s really Jean Louise Bullfinch, that I got swapped when I was 
born and I’m really a-
Let’s not let our imaginations run 
away with us, dear,
Now you tell your father not to teach you any 
more. It’s best to begin reading with a fresh mind. You tell him I’ll take over from 
here and try to undo the damage-
Ma’am?
Your father does not know how to teach. You can have a seat now.
If I didn’t have to stay I’d leave. Jem, that damn lady says Atticus’s been 
teaching me to read and for him to stop it-
Don’t worry, Scout,
Our teacher says Miss Caroline’s 
introducing a new way of teaching. She learned about it in college. It’ll be in all 
the grades soon. You don’t have to learn much out of books that way—it’s like if 
you wanta learn about cows, you go milk one, see?
Yeah Jem, but I don’t wanta study cows, I-
Sure you do. You hafta know about cows, they’re a big part of life in Maycomb 
County.
I’m just trying to tell you the new way they’re teachin‘ the first grade, stubborn. 
It’s the Dewey Decimal System.
the,
cat,
rat,
man,
you.
Besides,
We don’t write in the first grade, we print. You won’t learn to write 
until you’re in the third grade.
Everybody who goes home to lunch hold up your hands,
Everybody who brings his lunch put it on top of his desk.
Where’s yours?
Did you forget your lunch this morning?
Did you forget it this morning?
Yeb’m,
Here’s a quarter,
Go and eat downtown today. You can pay me back tomorrow.
Nome thank you ma’am,
Here Walter, come get it.
Go on and tell 
her, Scout.
Ah—Miss Caroline?
What is it, Jean Louise?
Miss Caroline, he’s a Cunningham.
What, Jean Louise?
Walter’s one of the Cunninghams, Miss Caroline.
I beg your pardon, Jean Louise?
That’s okay, ma’am, you’ll get to know all the county folks after a while. The 
Cunninghams never took anything they can’t pay back—no church baskets and no 
scrip stamps. They never took anything off of anybody, they get along on what 
they have. They don’t have much, but they get along on it.
Mr. Finch, I don’t know when I’ll ever be able to pay 
you.
Let that be the least of your worries, Walter,
Not in money,
but before the year’s out I’ll have been paid. You 
watch.
Why does he pay you like that?
Because that’s the only way he can pay me. He has no money.
Are we poor, Atticus?
We are indeed.
Are we as poor as the Cunninghams?
Not exactly. The Cunninghams are country folks, farmers, and the crash hit them 
hardest.
Did you know,
that Dr. Reynolds works the same 
way? He charges some folks a bushel of potatoes for delivery of a baby. Miss 
Scout, if you give me your attention I’ll tell you what entailment is. Jem’s 
definitions are very nearly accurate sometimes.
You’re 
shamin‘ him, Miss Caroline. Walter hasn’t got a quarter at home to bring you, and 
you can’t use any stovewood.
Jean Louise, I’ve had about enough of you this morning,
You’re starting off on the wrong foot in every way, my dear. Hold out your 
hand.
If I hear 
another sound from this room I’ll burn up everybody in it. Miss Caroline, the 
sixth grade cannot concentrate on the pyramids for all this racket!
You’re 
bigger’n he is,
He’s as old as you, nearly,
He made me start off on the wrong foot.
Let him go, Scout. Why?
He didn’t have any lunch,
Your daddy Mr. Walter Cunningham from Old 
Sarum?
Come on home to dinner with us, Walter,
We’d be glad to have you.
Our daddy’s a friend of your daddy’s. Scout here, she’s crazy—she 
won’t fight you any more.
I wouldn’t be too certain of that,
Yeah Walter, I 
won’t jump on you again. Don’t you like butterbeans? Our Cal’s a real good 
cook.
Hey, I’m comin‘!
A 
hain’t lives there,
Ever hear 
about him, Walter?
Reckon I have,
Almost died first year I come to school and et 
them pecans—folks say he pizened ‘em and put ’em over on the school side of the 
fence.
I went all the way up to the house once,
Anybody who went up to the house once oughta not to still run every time he 
passes it,
And who’s runnin‘, Miss Priss?
You are, when ain’t anybody with you.
Reason I can’t pass the first grade, Mr. Finch, is I’ve had to stay out ever‘ spring 
an’ help Papa with the choppin‘, but there’s another’n at the house now that’s 
field size.
Did you pay a bushel of potatoes for him?
But he’s gone and drowned his dinner in 
syrup,
He’s poured it all over-
There’s 
some folks who don’t eat like us,
but you ain’t called on 
to contradict ‘em at the table when they don’t. That boy’s yo’ comp’ny and if he 
wants to eat up the table cloth you let him, you hear?
He ain’t company, Cal, he’s just a Cunningham-
Hush your mouth! Don’t matter who they are, anybody sets foot in this house’s 
yo‘ comp’ny, and don’t you let me catch you remarkin’ on their ways like you 
was so high and mighty! Yo‘ folks might be better’n the Cunninghams but it 
don’t count for nothin’ the way you’re disgracin‘ ’em—if you can’t act fit to eat 
at the table you can just set here and eat in the kitchen!
Hush your fussin‘,
She 
likes Jem better’n she likes me, anyway,
Have you ever considered that Jem doesn’t worry her half as much?
I’ve no intention of getting rid of her, now or ever. We couldn’t 
operate a single day without Cal, have you ever thought of that? You think about 
how much Cal does for you, and you mind her, you hear?
It’s alive!
Which way did he go, Miss Caroline? Tell us where he 
went, quick! D.C.-
D.C., shut the door and 
we’ll catch him. Quick, ma’am, where’d he go?
You mean him, ma’am? Yessum, he’s alive. Did he scare you some 
way?
I was just walking by when it crawled out of his 
hair… just crawled out of his hair-
There ain’t no need to fear a cootie, ma’am. Ain’t 
you ever seen one? Now don’t you be afraid, you just go back to your desk and 
teach us some more.
Now don’t you 
fret, ma’am,
There ain’t no need to fear a cootie. I’ll just fetch you 
some cool water.
What is your name, son?
Who, me?
Burris Ewell.
I have a Ewell here, but I don’t have a 
first name… would you spell your first name for me?
Don’t know how. They call me Burris’t home.
Well, Burris,
I think we’d better excuse you for the rest of 
the afternoon. I want you to go home and wash your hair.
A good home remedy for—Burris, I want you to go home and wash 
your hair with lye soap. When you’ve done that, treat your scalp with kerosene.
What fer, missus?
To get rid of the—er, cooties. You see, Burris, the other children might catch 
them, and you wouldn’t want that, would you?
And Burris,
please bathe yourself before you come back 
tomorrow.
You ain’t sendin‘ me home, missus. I was on the verge 
of leavin’—I done done my time for this year.
What do you mean by that?
He’s one of the Ewells, 
ma’am,
Whole school’s full of ‘em. 
They come first day every year and then leave. The truant lady gets ’em here 
‘cause she threatens ’em with the sheriff, but she’s give up tryin‘ to hold ’em. She 
reckons she’s carried out the law just gettin‘ their names on the roll and runnin’ 
‘em here the first day. You’re supposed to mark ’em absent the rest of the year…
But what about their parents?
Ain’t got no mother,
and their paw’s right contentious.
Been comin‘ to the first day o’ the first 
grade fer three year now,
Reckon if I’m smart this year 
they’ll promote me to the second…
Sit back down, please, Burris,
You try and make me, missus.
Let him go, ma’am,
He’s a mean 
one, a hard-down mean one. He’s liable to start somethin‘, and there’s some little 
folks here.
Watch your step, Burris,
I’d soon’s kill you as look at you. Now go home.
Burris, go home. If you don’t I’ll call the principal,
I’ll have to report this, anyway.
Report and be damned to ye! Ain’t 
no snot-nosed slut of a schoolteacher ever born c’n make me do nothin‘! You 
ain’t makin’ me go nowhere, missus. You just remember that, you ain’t makin‘ 
me go nowhere!
…
 Miss Caroline smiled, blew her nose, said, “Thank you, darlings,” dispersed us, 
opened a book and mystified the first grade with a long narrative about a toadfrog 
that lived in a hall.
 When I passed the Radley Place for the fourth time that day—twice at a full gallop
 —my gloom had deepened to match the house. If the remainder of the school year 
were as fraught with drama as the first day, perhaps it would be mildly 
entertaining, but the prospect of spending nine months refraining from reading 
and writing made me think of running away.
 By late afternoon most of my traveling plans were complete; when Jem and I 
raced each other up the sidewalk to meet Atticus coming home from work, I 
didn
Shut your eyes and open your mouth and I’ll give you a surprise,
I missed you today,
The house got so lonesome ‘long about two 
o’clock I had to turn on the radio.
Why? Jem’n me ain’t ever in the house unless it’s rainin‘.
I know,
But one of you’s always in callin‘ distance. I wonder how 
much of the day I spend just callin’ after you. Well,
it’s enough time to make a pan of cracklin‘ bread, I reckon. You 
run along now and let me get supper on the table.
Scout, ready to read?
Something wrong, Scout?
You never went to school and you 
do all right, so I’ll just stay home too. You can teach me like Granddaddy taught 
you ‘n’ Uncle Jack.
No I can’t,
I have to make a living. Besides, they’d put me in jail 
if I kept you at home—dose of magnesia for you tonight and school tomorrow.
I’m feeling all right, really.
Thought so. Now what’s the matter?
-and she said you taught me all 
wrong, so we can’t ever read any more, ever. Please don’t send me back, please 
sir.
First of all,
if you can learn a simple trick, Scout, you’ll get along a lot 
better with all kinds of folks. You never really understand a person until you 
consider things from his point of view-
Sir?
-until you climb into his skin and walk around in it.
I’ll be dogged,
I didn’t know no better than not to read to her, and she 
held me responsible—listen Atticus, I don’t have to go to school!
Burris Ewell, remember? He just goes to school the first 
day. The truant lady reckons she’s carried out the law when she gets his name on 
the roll-
You can’t do that, Scout,
Sometimes it’s better to bend 
the law a little in special cases. In your case, the law remains rigid. So to school 
you must go.
I don’t see why I have to when he doesn’t.
Then listen.
They can go to school any time they want to, when they show the 
faintest symptom of wanting an education,
There are ways of 
keeping them in school by force, but it’s silly to force people like the Ewells into 
a new environment-
If I didn’t go to school tomorrow, you’d force me to.
Let us leave it at this,
You, Miss Scout Finch, are of the 
common folk. You must obey the law.
Atticus, that’s bad,
It’s against the law, all right,
and it’s certainly bad, but when a 
man spends his relief checks on green whiskey his children have a way of crying 
from hunger pains. I don’t know of any landowner around here who begrudges 
those children any game their father can hit.
Mr. Ewell shouldn’t do that-
Of course he shouldn’t, but he’ll never change his ways. Are you going to take 
out your disapproval on his children?
No sir,
But if I keep on goin‘ to school, 
we can’t ever read any more…
That’s really bothering you, isn’t it?
Yes sir.
Do you know what a compromise is?
Bending the law?
No, an agreement reached by mutual concessions. It works this way,
If 
you’ll concede the necessity of going to school, we’ll go on reading every night 
just as we always have. Is it a bargain?
Yes sir!
We’ll consider it sealed without the usual formality,
By the way, Scout, you’d better 
not say anything at school about our agreement.
Why not?
I’m afraid our activities would be received with considerable disapprobation by 
the more learned authorities.
Huh, sir?
I never went to school,
but I have a feeling that if you tell Miss 
Caroline we read every night she’ll get after me, and I wouldn’t want her after 
me.
Don’t eat things you find, Scout.
This wasn’t on the ground, it was in a tree.
Well it was,
It was sticking in that tree yonder, the one comin‘ from 
school.
Spit it out right now!
I’ve been chewin‘ it all afternoon and 
I ain’t dead yet, not even sick.
Don’t you know you’re not supposed to even touch the 
trees over there? You’ll get killed if you do!
You touched the house once!
That was different! You go gargle—right now, you hear me?
Ain’t neither, it’ll take the taste outa my mouth.
You don’t ‘n’ I’ll tell Calpurnia on you!
Reckon old Dill’ll be coming home tomorrow,
Probably day after,
Mis’sippi turns ‘em loose a day later.
I see it, Scout! I see it-
Indian-heads,
Nineteen-six and Scout, one of em’s nineteen-hundred. 
These are real old.
Nineteen-hundred,
Say-
Hush a minute, I’m thinkin‘.
Jem, you reckon that’s somebody’s hidin‘ place?
Naw, don’t anybody much but us pass by there, unless it’s some grown 
person’s-
Grown folks don’t have hidin‘ places. You reckon we ought to keep ’em, Jem?
I don’t know what we could do, Scout. Who’d we give ‘em back to? I know for a 
fact don’t anybody go by there—Cecil goes by the back street an’ all the way 
around by town to get home.
What you reckon we oughta do, Jem?
Tell you what,
We’ll keep ‘em till school starts, then go around and 
ask everybody if they’re theirs. They’re some bus child’s, maybe—he was too 
taken up with gettin’ outa school today an‘ forgot ’em. These are somebody’s, I 
know that. See how they’ve been slicked up? They’ve been saved.
Yeah, but why should somebody wanta put away chewing gum like that? You 
know it doesn’t last.
I don’t know, Scout. But these are important to somebody…
How’s that, Jem…?
Well, Indian-heads—well, they come from the Indians. They’re real strong 
magic, they make you have good luck. Not like fried chicken when you’re not 
lookin‘ for it, but things like long life ’n‘ good health, ’n‘ passin’ six-weeks 
tests… these are real valuable to somebody. I’m gonna put em in my trunk.
I helped the engineer for a while,
In a pig’s ear you did, Dill. Hush,
What’ll we play today?
Tom and Sam and Dick,
Let’s go in the front yard.
I’m tired of those,
Make us up one, Jem,
I’m tired of makin‘ ’em up.
I—smell—death,
I do, I mean it,
You mean when somebody’s dyin‘ you can smell it?
No, I mean I can smell somebody an‘ tell if they’re gonna die. An old lady 
taught me how.
Jean—Louise—Finch, you are 
going to die in three days.
Dill if you don’t hush I’ll knock you bowlegged. I mean it, now-
Yawl hush,
you act like you believe in Hot Steams.
You act like you don’t,
What’s a Hot Steam?
Haven’t you ever walked along a lonesome road at night and passed by a hot 
place?
A Hot Steam’s somebody who can’t get to heaven, just 
wallows around on lonesome roads an‘ if you walk through him, when you die 
you’ll be one too, an’ you’ll go around at night suckin‘ people’s breath-
How can you keep from passing through one?
You can’t,
Sometimes they stretch all the way across the road, but if 
you hafta go through one you say, ‘Angel-bright, life-in-death; get off the road, 
don’t suck my breath.’ That keeps ‘em from wrapping around you-
Don’t you believe a word he says, Dill,
Calpurnia says that’s nigger
talk.
Well, are we gonna play anything or not?
Let’s roll in the tire,
You know I’m too big.
You c’n push.
I’m first,
Scout, get away from there, come on!
Come on, Scout, don’t just lie there!
Get up, can’tcha?
Get the tire!
Bring it with you! Ain’t you got any sense at all?
Why didn’t you bring it?
Why don’t you get it?
Go on, it ain’t far inside the gate. Why, you even touched the house once, 
remember?
See there?
Nothin‘ to it. I swear, Scout, 
sometimes you act so much like a girl it’s mortifyin’.
Lemonade time! You all get in 
outa that hot sun ‘fore you fry alive!
I know what we are 
going to play,
Something new, something different.
What?
Boo Radley.
Boo Radley? How?
Scout, you can be Mrs. Radley-
I declare if I will. I don’t think-
‘Smatter?
Still scared?
He can get out at night when we’re all asleep…
Scout, how’s he gonna know what we’re doin‘? Besides, I don’t 
think he’s still there. He died years ago and they stuffed him up the chimney.
Jem, you and me can play and Scout can watch if she’s scared.
What are you all playing?
Nothing,
What are you doing with those scissors, then? Why are you tearing up that 
newspaper? If it’s today’s I’ll tan you.
Nothing.
Nothing what?
Nothing, sir.
Give me those scissors,
They’re no things to play with. Does this 
by any chance have anything to do with the Radleys?
No sir,
I hope it doesn’t,
Je-m…
Shut up! He’s gone in the livingroom, he can hear us in there.
I don’t know. Atticus didn’t say we couldn’t-
Jem,
I think Atticus knows it anyway.
No he don’t. If he did he’d say he did.
All right, you just keep it up then,
You’ll find out.
Why can’t you just pull it up?
Pull it up, child, pull it up?
Why, one sprig of nut 
grass can ruin a whole yard. Look here. When it comes fall this dries up and the 
wind blows it all over Maycomb County!
Look here.
Jem Finch, Scout Finch, Charles 
Baker Harris, come here!
Miss Maudie,
do you think Boo Radley’s still alive?
His name’s Arthur and he’s alive,
Do you smell my mimosa? It’s like angels’ breath this evening.
Yessum. How do you know?
Know what, child?
That B—Mr. Arthur’s still alive?
What a morbid question. But I suppose it’s a morbid subject. I know he’s alive, 
Jean Louise, because I haven’t seen him carried out yet.
Maybe he died and they stuffed him up the chimney.
Where did you get such a notion?
That’s what Jem said he thought they did.
S-ss-ss. He gets more like Jack Finch every day.
Call a little louder, Jack Finch, 
and they’ll hear you at the post office, I haven’t heard you yet!
Arthur Radley just stays in the house, that’s all,
Wouldn’t 
you stay in the house if you didn’t want to come out?
Yessum, but I’d wanta come out. Why doesn’t he?
You know that story as well as I do.
I never heard why, though. Nobody ever told me why.
You know old Mr. Radley was a foot
washing Baptist-
That’s what you are, ain’t it?
My shell’s not that hard, child. I’m just a Baptist.
Don’t you all believe in foot-washing?
We do. At home in the bathtub.
But we can’t have communion with you all-
Foot-washers believe anything that’s pleasure is 
a sin. Did you know some of ‘em came out of the woods one Saturday and passed 
by this place and told me me and my flowers were going to hell?
Your flowers, too?
Yes ma’am. They’d burn right with me. They thought I spent too much time in 
God’s outdoors and not enough time inside the house reading the Bible.
That ain’t right, Miss Maudie. You’re the best lady I know.
Thank you ma’am. Thing is, foot-washers think women 
are a sin by definition. They take the Bible literally, you know.
Is that why Mr. Arthur stays in the house, to keep away from women?
I’ve no idea.
It doesn’t make sense to me. Looks like if Mr. Arthur was hankerin‘ after heaven 
he’d come out on the porch at least. Atticus says God’s loving folks like you love 
yourself-
You are too young to 
understand it,
but sometimes the Bible in the hand of one man is worse 
than a whiskey bottle in the hand of—oh, of your father.
Atticus doesn’t drink whiskey,
He never drunk a drop in 
his life—nome, yes he did. He said he drank some one time and didn’t like it.
Wasn’t talking about your father,
What I 
meant was, if Atticus Finch drank until he was drunk he wouldn’t be as hard as 
some men are at their best. There are just some kind of men who—who’re so 
busy worrying about the next world they’ve never learned to live in this one, and 
you can look down the street and see the results.
Do you think they’re true, all those things they say about B—Mr. Arthur?
What things?
That is three-fourths colored folks and one-fourth Stephanie Crawford,
Stephanie Crawford even told me once she woke up in the 
middle of the night and found him looking in the window at her. I said what did 
you do, Stephanie, move over in the bed and make room for him? That shut her 
up a while.
No, child,
that is a sad house. I remember Arthur Radley when he 
was a boy. He always spoke nicely to me, no matter what folks said he did. Spoke 
as nicely as he knew how.
You reckon he’s crazy?
If he’s not he should be by now. The things that 
happen to people we never really know. What happens in houses behind closed 
doors, what secrets-
Atticus don’t ever do anything to Jem and me in the house that he don’t do in the 
yard,
Gracious child, I was raveling a thread, wasn’t even thinking about your father, 
but now that I am I’ll say this: Atticus Finch is the same in his house as he is on 
the public streets. How’d you like some fresh poundcake to take home?
Will not. This yard’s as much mine as it is yours, Jem Finch. I got just as much 
right to play in it as you have.
If you stay you’ve got to do what we 
tell you,
We-ll,
who’s so high and mighty all of a sudden?
If you don’t say you’ll do what we tell you, we ain’t gonna tell you anything,
You act like you grew ten inches in the night! All right, what is it?
We are going to give a note to Boo Radley.
Just how?
I’m goin‘ around to the side of the house,
We looked yesterday from 
across the street, and there’s a shutter loose. Think maybe I can make it stick on 
the window sill, at least.
Jem-
Now you’re in it and you can’t get out of it, you’ll just stay in it, Miss Priss!
Okay, okay, but I don’t wanta watch. Jem, somebody was-
Yes you will, you’ll watch the back end of the lot and Dill’s gonna watch the 
front of the house an‘ up the street, an’ if anybody comes he’ll ring the bell. That 
clear?
All right then. What’d you write him?
We’re askin‘ him real politely to come out sometimes, and tell us what 
he does in there—we said we wouldn’t hurt him and we’d buy him an ice cream.
You all’ve gone crazy, he’ll kill us!
It’s my idea. I figure if he’d come out and sit a spell with us he might 
feel better.
How do you know he don’t feel good?
Well how’d you feel if you’d been shut up for a hundred years with nothin‘ but 
cats to eat? I bet he’s got a beard down to here-
Like your daddy’s?
He ain’t got a beard, he-
Uh huh, caughtcha,
You said ‘fore you were off the train good your 
daddy had a black beard-
If it’s all the same to you he shaved it off last summer! Yeah, an‘ I’ve got the 
letter to prove it—he sent me two dollars, too!
Keep on—I reckon he even sent you a mounted police uniform! That’n never 
showed up, did it? You just keep on tellin‘ ’em, son-
You all hush,
Reckon this is long enough to reach from the sidewalk?
Anybody who’s brave enough to go up and touch the house hadn’t oughta use a 
fishin‘ pole,
Why don’t you just knock the front door down?
This—is—different,
how many times do I have to tell you that?
All clear,
Not a soul in sight.
Can’t get it off the pole,
or if I got it off I can’t make it stay. G’on 
back down the street, Scout.
Stop ringing that bell.
Jem,
what were you doing?
Nothin‘, sir.
I don’t want any of that. Tell me.
I was—we were just tryin‘ to give somethin’ to Mr. Radley.
What were you trying to give him?
Just a letter.
Let me see it.
Why do 
you want Mr. Radley to come out?
We thought he might enjoy us…
Son,
I’m going to tell you something and tell you one time: 
stop tormenting that man. That goes for the other two of you.
We weren’t makin‘ fun of him, we weren’t laughin’ at him,
we were 
just-
So that was what you were doing, wasn’t it?
Makin‘ fun of him?
No,
putting his life’s history on display for the edification of the 
neighborhood.
I didn’t say we were doin‘ that, I didn’t say it!
You just told me,
You stop this nonsense right 
now, every one of you.
You want to be a lawyer, don’t you?
I thought I wanted to be a lawyer but I ain’t so sure now!
Yes,
Tell him so 
long for me, and we’ll see him next summer.
Not a breath blowing,
Looka yonder.
That makes it seem hotter,
Cross in it tonight?
No, just the lady. Don’t light that thing, Dill, you’ll stink up this whole end of 
town.
We’re gonna miss you, boy,
Reckon we better watch for Mr. Avery?
Golly, looka yonder.
I know what, let’s go for 
a walk.
Where to, 
Dill?
Okay.
You don’t have to come 
along, Angel May.
You don’t have to go. Remember-
Scout, we ain’t gonna do 
anything, we’re just goin‘ to the street light and back.
Well?
Okay,
Why don’t you go on home, Scout?
What are you gonna do?
But what in the sam holy hill did you wait till tonight?
Jem, please—
Scout, I’m tellin‘ you for the last time, shut your trap or go home—I declare to 
the Lord you’re gettin’ more like a girl every day!
Don’t make a sound,
Don’t get in a row of collards whatever you do, they’ll wake the 
dead.
Spit on it,
You’ve got us in a box, Jem,
We can’t get out of here so easy.
Sh-h. Spit on it, Scout.
Ar-r,
‘Smatter?
Chickens,
Give you a hand up,
Wait, though.
Hurry,
we can’t last much longer.
What’d you see?
Nothing. Curtains. There’s a little teeny light way off somewhere, though.
Let’s get away from here,
Let’s go ‘round in back again. Sh-h,
Let’s try the back window.
Dill, no,
Fence by the 
schoolyard!—hurry, Scout!
We 
gotta get home, they’ll miss us.
We better go down there,
They’ll think it’s funny if we don’t show 
up.
Where were you all, 
didn’t you hear the commotion?
What happened?
Mr. Radley shot at a Negro in his collard patch.
Oh. Did he hit him?
No,
Shot in the air. Scared him pale, though. Says if 
anybody sees a white nigger around, that’s the one. Says he’s got the other barrel 
waitin‘ for the next sound he hears in that patch, an’ next time he won’t aim high, 
be it dog, nigger, or—Jem Finch!
Ma’am?
Where’re your pants, son?
Pants, sir?
Pants.
Ah—Mr. Finch?
What is it, Dill?
Ah—I won ‘em from him,
Won them? How?
We were playin‘ strip poker up yonder by the fishpool,
Do
o-o Jee-sus, Dill Harris! Gamblin‘ by my fishpool? I’ll strip-poker you, sir!
Just a minute, Miss Rachel,
I’ve never heard of ‘em doing that before. Were you all playing cards?
No sir, just with matches.
Jem, Scout,
I don’t want to hear of poker in any form again. Go 
by Dill’s and get your pants, Jem. Settle it yourselves.
Don’t worry, Dill,
she ain’t gonna get 
you. He’ll talk her out of it. That was fast thinkin‘, son. Listen… you hear?
…not serious… they all go through it, 
Miss Rachel…
‘d give you some of mine,
Yawl write, hear?
Sleep, Little Three-Eyes?
Are you crazy?
Sh-h. Atticus’s light’s out.
I’m goin‘ after ’em,
You can’t. I won’t let you.
I’ve got to.
You do an‘ I’ll wake up Atticus.
You do and I’ll kill you.
Mr. Nathan’s 
gonna find ‘em in the morning, Jem. He knows you lost ’em. When he shows ‘em 
to Atticus it’ll be pretty bad, that’s all there is to it. Go’n back to bed.
That’s what I know,
That’s why I’m goin‘ after ’em.
Look, it ain’t worth it, Jem. A lickin‘ hurts but it doesn’t last. 
You’ll get your head shot off, Jem. Please…
I—it’s like this, Scout,
Atticus 
ain’t ever whipped me since I can remember. I wanta keep it that way.
You 
mean he’s never caught you at anything.
Maybe so, but—I just wanta keep it that way, Scout. We shouldn’a done that 
tonight, Scout.
Please,
can’tcha just think about it for a minute—
 by yourself on that place—
Shut up!
It’s not like he’d never speak to you again or somethin‘… I’m gonna wake him 
up, Jem, I swear I am—
Then I’m goin‘ with you
 —
No you ain’t, you’ll just make noise.
There’s something I didn’t tell you.
About 
what?
About that night.
You’ve never told me anything about that night,
When I went back for my breeches—they were all in a tangle when I was 
gettin‘ out of ’em, I couldn’t get ‘em loose. When I went back—
When I went back, they were folded across the fence… like they 
were expectin’ me.
Across—
And something else—
Show you when we get home. 
They’d been sewed up. Not like a lady sewed ‘em, like somethin’ I’d try to do. 
All crooked. It’s almost like—
—somebody knew you were comin‘ back for ’em.
Like somebody was readin‘ my mind… like somebody could tell 
what I was gonna do. Can’t anybody tell what I’m gonna do lest they know me, 
can they, Scout?
Can’t anybody tell what you’re 
gonna do lest they live in the house with you, and even I can’t tell sometimes.
Don’t take it, Jem,
This is somebody’s hidin‘ place.
I don’t think so, Scout.
Yes it is. Somebody like Walter Cunningham comes down here every recess and 
hides his things—and we come along and take ‘em away from him. Listen, let’s 
leave it and wait a couple of days. If it ain’t gone then, we’ll take it, okay?
Okay, you might be right,
It must be some little kid’s place—hides 
his things from the bigger folks. You know it’s only when school’s in that we’ve 
found things.
Yeah,
but we never go by here in the summertime.
What’s the matter with you?
These are good,
I’ve never seen any these 
good.
These are us,
Who did ‘em, you reckon?
Who do we know around here who whittles?
Mr. Avery.
Mr. Avery just does like this. I mean carves.
There’s old Miss Stephanie Crawford’s sweetheart,
He carves all right, but he lives down the country. When would he ever pay any 
attention to us?
Maybe he sits on the porch and looks at us instead of Miss Stephanie. If I was 
him, I would.
You reckon it’s white gold, Jem?
Don’t know. I’ll show it to Atticus.
Did you swap with somebody at school?
Oh, no sir!
Atticus, if it’s all right with you, I’d rather have this one instead. 
Maybe I can fix it.
Oh-h,
it’ll never go. Scout—?
Huh?
You reckon we oughta write a letter to whoever’s leaving us these things?
That’d be right nice, Jem, we can thank ‘em—what’s wrong?
I don’t get it, I just 
don’t get it—I don’t know why, Scout…
I’ve 
gotta good mind to tell Atticus—no, I reckon not.
I’ll tell him for you.
No, don’t do that, Scout. Scout?
Wha-t?
Oh, nothin‘.
Here, let’s write a letter.
Okay. Dear Mister…
How do you know it’s a man? I bet it’s Miss Maudie—been bettin‘ that for a 
long time.
Ar-r, Miss Maudie can’t chew gum—
You know, she 
can talk real pretty sometimes. One time I asked her to have a chew and she said 
no thanks, that—chewing gum cleaved to her palate and rendered her speechless,
Doesn’t that sound nice?
Yeah, she can say nice things sometimes. She wouldn’t have a watch and chain 
anyway.
Dear sir,
We appreciate the—no, we appreciate everything which 
you have put into the tree for us. Yours very truly, Jeremy Atticus Finch.
He won’t know who you are if you sign it like that, Jem.
Jem Finch.
Jean Louise Finch 
(Scout),
Scout!
Don’t you cry, now, Scout… don’t cry now, don’t you worry-
Hasn’t passed by yet,
Hidy do, Mr. Nathan,
Morning Jem, Scout,
Mr. Radley,
Mr. Radley, ah—did you put cement in that hole in that tree down yonder?
Yes,
I filled it up.
Why’d you do it, sir?
Tree’s dying. You plug ‘em with cement when they’re sick. You ought to know 
that, Jem.
Atticus, look down yonder at that tree, please sir.
What tree, son?
The one on the corner of the Radley lot comin‘ from school.
Yes?
Is that tree dyin‘?
Why no, son, I don’t think so. Look at the leaves, they’re all green and full, no 
brown patches anywhere—
It ain’t even sick?
That tree’s as healthy as you are, Jem. Why?
Mr. Nathan Radley said it was dyin‘.
Well maybe it is. I’m sure Mr. Radley knows more about his trees than we do.
Do you itch, Jem?
Come on 
in, Jem,
After while.
Ask him,
You ask him, you’re the oldest.
That’s why you oughta ask him.
Atticus,
did you see Mr. Arthur?
I did not.
The world’s endin‘, Atticus! Please do something—!
No it’s not,
It’s snowing.
I 
think, though, if it’s watery like that, it’ll turn to rain.
That was 
Eula May,
I quote—‘As it has not snowed in 
Maycomb County since 1885, there will be no school today.’
How do you make a snowman?
I haven’t the slightest idea,
I don’t want you all to be 
disappointed, but I doubt if there’ll be enough snow for a snowball, even.
We shouldn’t walk about in it,
Look, every step you take’s wasting 
it.
Jem, it’s hot!
No it ain’t, it’s so cold it burns. Now don’t eat it, Scout, you’re wasting it. Let it 
come down.
But I want to walk in it.
I know what, we can go walk over at Miss Maudie’s.
See what you’ve done?
Hasn’t snowed in Maycomb since 
Appomattox. It’s bad children like you makes the seasons change.
Jem Finch, you Jem Finch!
Miss Maudie’s callin‘ you, Jem.
You all stay in the middle of the yard. There’s some thrift buried under the snow 
near the porch. Don’t step on it!
Yessum!
It’s beautiful, ain’t it, Miss Maudie?
Beautiful my hind foot! If it freezes tonight it’ll carry off all my azaleas!
Keep ‘em warm,
How can flowers keep warm? They don’t circulate.
I cannot answer that question, Jem Finch. All I know is if it freezes tonight these 
plants’ll freeze, so you cover ‘em up. Is that clear?
Yessum. Miss Maudie?
What, sir?
Could Scout and me borrow some of your snow?
Heavens alive, take it all! There’s an old peach basket under the house, haul it 
off in that.
Jem Finch, what are you going to do 
with my snow?
You’ll see,
What are we gonna do, Jem?
You’ll see,
Now get the basket and haul all the snow you can rake up 
from the back yard to the front. Walk back in your tracks, though,
Are we gonna have a snow baby, Jem?
No, a real snowman. Gotta work hard, now.
Don’t you think this is kind of a mess?
Looks messy now, but it won’t later,
Jem, I ain’t ever heard of a nigger snowman,
He won’t be black long,
He looks like Stephanie Crawford with her hands on her hips,
Fat in the 
middle and little-bitty arms.
I’ll make ‘em bigger.
Mr. Avery’s 
sort of shaped like a snowman, ain’t he?
It’s lovely, Jem,
Looks almost like he’d talk to you.
It is, ain’t it?
I didn’t know 
how you were going to do it,
but from now on I’ll never worry 
about what’ll become of you, son, you’ll always have an idea.
Son, I can’t tell what you’re going to be—an engineer, a 
lawyer, or a portrait painter. You’ve perpetrated a near libel here in the front yard. 
We’ve got to disguise this fellow.
I don’t care what you do, so long as you do something,
You can’t 
go around making caricatures of the neighbors.
Ain’t a characterture,
It looks just like him.
Mr. Avery might not think so.
I know what!
Jem Finch,
You devil, bring 
me back my hat, sir!
She’s just fussing,
She’s really impressed with your—accomplishments.
…erected an 
absolute morphodite in that yard! Atticus, you’ll never raise ‘em!
Is it morning already?
Baby, get up.
Put your robe on first,
Hurry, hon,
Here’re your shoes and socks.
Is it morning?
No, it’s a little after one. Hurry now.
What’s the matter?
Whose is it?
Miss Maudie’s, hon,
It’s gone, ain’t it?
I expect so,
Now listen, both of you. Go down and stand in front 
of the Radley Place. Keep out of the way, do you hear? See which way the wind’s 
blowing?
Oh,
Atticus, reckon we oughta start moving the furniture out?
Not yet, son. Do as I tell you. Run now. Take care of Scout, you hear? Don’t let 
her out of your sight.
Why don’t they hurry, why don’t they hurry…
Oh-h Lord, Jem…
Hush, Scout,
It ain’t time to worry yet. I’ll 
let you know when.
Come down from there, Dick! The stairs are going! 
Get outta there, Mr. Avery!
Scout, he’s stuck…
Oh God…
He’s got loose, Scout! He’s all right!
Jem, it looks like a pumpkin—
Scout, look!
That book…
What?
That Tom Swift book, it ain’t mine, it’s Dill’s…
Don’t worry, Scout, it ain’t time to worry yet,
Looka 
yonder.
See there, he’s not worried yet,
Why ain’t he on top of one of the houses?
He’s too old, he’d break his neck.
You think we oughta make him get our stuff out?
Let’s don’t pester him, he’ll know when it’s time,
Anybody want some hot chocolate?
I thought I told you and Jem to stay put,
Why, we did. We stayed—
Then whose blanket is that?
Blanket?
Yes ma’am, blanket. It isn’t ours.
Atticus, I don’t know, sir… I—
Mr. Nathan was at the fire,
I saw him, I saw him, he was tuggin‘ 
that mattress—Atticus, I swear…
That’s all right, son.
Looks like all of Maycomb was 
out tonight, in one way or another. Jem, there’s some wrapping paper in the 
pantry, I think. Go get it and we’ll—
Atticus, no sir!
…Mr. Nathan put cement in that tree, Atticus, an‘ he did it to stop us findin’ 
things—he’s crazy, I reckon, like they say, but Atticus, I swear to God he ain’t 
ever harmed us, he ain’t ever hurt us, he coulda cut my throat from ear to ear that 
night but he tried to mend my pants instead… he ain’t ever hurt us, Atticus—
Whoa, son,
You’re right. 
We’d better keep this and the blanket to ourselves. Someday, maybe, Scout can 
thank him for covering her up.
Thank who?
Boo Radley. You were so busy looking at the fire you didn’t know it when he 
put the blanket around you.
He sneaked out of the house—turn ‘round—sneaked up, 
an’ went like this!
Do not let this inspire you to further glory, Jeremy.
I ain’t gonna do anything to him,
Just think, Scout,
if you’d just turned 
around, you’da seen him.
We’re bringing back your things, 
Miss Maudie,
We’re awful sorry.
Always wanted a smaller house, Jem Finch. Gives me more yard. Just think, I’ll 
have more room for my azaleas now!
You ain’t grievin‘, Miss Maudie?
Grieving, child? Why, I hated that old cow barn. Thought of settin‘ fire to it a 
hundred times myself, except they’d lock me up.
But—
Don’t you worry about me, Jean Louise Finch. There are ways of doing things 
you don’t know about. Why, I’ll build me a little house and take me a couple of 
roomers and—gracious, I’ll have the finest yard in Alabama. Those 
Bellingraths’ll look plain puny when I get started!
How’d it catch, Miss Maudie?
I don’t know, Jem. Probably the flue in the kitchen. I kept a fire in there last 
night for my potted plants. Hear you had some unexpected company last night, 
Miss Jean Louise.
How’d you know?
Atticus told me on his way to town this morning. Tell you the truth, I’d like 
to’ve been with you. And I’d‘ve had sense enough to turn around, too.
Only thing I worried about last 
night was all the danger and commotion it caused. This whole neighborhood 
could have gone up. Mr. Avery’ll be in bed for a week—he’s right stove up. He’s 
too old to do things like that and I told him so. Soon as I can get my hands clean 
and when Stephanie Crawford’s not looking, I’ll make him a Lane cake. That 
Stephanie’s been after my recipe for thirty years, and if she thinks I’ll give it to 
her just because I’m staying with her she’s got another think coming.
I’ve been out here since six o’clock,
Should be frozen by now.
You’ve ruined ‘em,
Why don’t you get a colored man?
Or Scout’n’me, we can help 
you.
Thank you sir, but you’ve got a job of your own over there.
You mean the Morphodite?
Shoot, we can rake him up in a jiffy.
You can just take that back, boy!
What’d he mean sayin‘ that?
Nothing,
Ask Atticus, he’ll tell you.
Do you defend niggers, Atticus?
Of course I do. Don’t say nigger, Scout. That’s common.
‘s what everybody at school says.
From now on it’ll be everybody less one—
Well if you don’t want me to grow up talkin‘ that way, why do you send me to 
school?
Do all lawyers defend n-Negroes, Atticus?
Of course they do, Scout.
Then why did Cecil say you defended niggers? He made it sound like you were 
runnin‘ a still.
I’m simply defending a Negro—his name’s Tom Robinson. He 
lives in that little settlement beyond the town dump. He’s a member of 
Calpurnia’s church, and Cal knows his family well. She says they’re clean-living 
folks. Scout, you aren’t old enough to understand some things yet, but there’s 
been some high talk around town to the effect that I shouldn’t do much about 
defending this man. It’s a peculiar case—it won’t come to trial until summer 
session. John Taylor was kind enough to give us a postponement…
If you shouldn’t be defendin‘ him, then why are you doin’ it?
For a number of reasons,
The main one is, if I didn’t I couldn’t 
hold up my head in town, I couldn’t represent this county in the legislature, I 
couldn’t even tell you or Jem not to do something again.
You mean if you didn’t defend that man, Jem and me wouldn’t have to mind you 
any more?
That’s about right.
Why?
Because I could never ask you to mind me again. Scout, simply by the nature of 
the work, every lawyer gets at least one case in his lifetime that affects him 
personally. This one’s mine, I guess. You might hear some ugly talk about it at 
school, but do one thing for me if you will: you just hold your head high and keep 
those fists down. No matter what anybody says to you, don’t you let ‘em get your 
goat. Try fighting with your head for a change… it’s a good one, even if it does 
resist learning.
Atticus, are we going to win it?
No, honey.
Then why—
Simply because we were licked a hundred years before we started is no reason 
for us not to try to win,
You sound like Cousin Ike Finch,
Tell you, Atticus,
the Missouri Compromise was what licked us, but if I had to go 
through it agin I’d walk every step of the way there an‘ every step back jist like I 
did before an’ furthermore we’d whip ‘em this time… now in 1864, when 
Stonewall Jackson came around by—I beg your pardon, young folks. Ol’ Blue 
Light was in heaven then, God rest his saintly brow…
Come here, Scout,
It’s different 
this time,
This time we aren’t fighting the Yankees, we’re fighting our 
friends. But remember this, no matter how bitter things get, they’re still our 
friends and this is still our home.
You gonna 
take that back, boy?
You gotta make me first!
My folks said your daddy was a disgrace 
an‘ that nigger oughta hang from the water-tank!
Scout’s a cow—ward!
Get off the fence,
What’s in those packages?
None of your business,
How’s Rose Aylmer?
She’s gettin‘ fat,
I should think so. She eats all the leftover fingers and ears from the hospital.
Aw, that’s a damn story,
I beg your pardon?
Don’t pay any attention to her, Jack. She’s trying you out. Cal says 
she’s been cussing fluently for a week, now.
See me afterwards, young lady,
You’re more like Atticus than your mother,
You’re also 
growing out of your pants a little.
I reckon they fit all right.
You like words like damn and hell now, don’t you?
Well I don’t,
not unless there’s extreme provocation 
connected with ‘em. I’ll be here a week, and I don’t want to hear any words like 
that while I’m here. Scout, you’ll get in trouble if you go around saying things 
like that. You want to grow up to be a lady, don’t you?
Of course you do. Now let’s get to the tree.
Don’t point them in the house,
You’ll have to teach ‘em to shoot,
That’s your job,
I merely bowed to the inevitable.
What’d you get for Christmas?
Just what I asked for,
That’s nice,
Jem and me got air rifles, and Jem got a chemistry set—
A toy one, I reckon.
No, a real one. He’s gonna make me some invisible ink, and I’m gonna write to 
Dill in it.
Well, can’t you just see his face when he gets a letter from me with nothing in it? 
It’ll drive him nuts.
Sister, I do the 
best I can with them!
Put on your coat,
That was the best yet,
Grandma’s a wonderful cook,
She’s gonna teach me how.
Boys don’t cook.
Grandma says all men should learn to cook, that men oughta be careful with 
their wives and wait on ‘em when they don’t feel good,
I don’t want Dill waitin‘ on me,
I’d rather wait on him.
Dill?
Yeah. Don’t say anything about it yet, but we’re gonna get married as soon as 
we’re big enough. He asked me last summer.
What’s the matter with him?
Ain’t anything the matter with him.
You mean that little runt Grandma says stays with Miss Rachel every summer?
That’s exactly who I mean.
I know all about him,
What about him?
Grandma says he hasn’t got a home—
Has too, he lives in Meridian.
—he just gets passed around from relative to relative, and Miss Rachel keeps 
him every summer.
Francis, that’s not so!
You’re mighty dumb sometimes, Jean Louise. Guess you 
don’t know any better, though.
What do you mean?
If Uncle Atticus lets you run around with stray dogs, that’s his own business, 
like Grandma says, so it ain’t your fault. I guess it ain’t your fault if Uncle Atticus 
is a nigger-lover besides, but I’m here to tell you it certainly does mortify the rest 
of the family—
Francis, what the hell do you mean?
Just what I said. Grandma says it’s bad enough he lets you all run wild, but now 
he’s turned out a nigger-lover we’ll never be able to walk the streets of Maycomb 
agin. He’s ruinin‘ the family, that’s what he’s doin’.
He’s nothin‘ but a nigger-lover!
He is not!
I don’t know what you’re talkin‘ about, but you better cut 
it out this red hot minute!
Nigger-lover!
You still mad, Jean Louise?
Nothing to speak of,
You gonna take it back, Fra—ancis?
Where’s 
Francis?
He’s out yonder in the kitchen.
He knows he’s not supposed to play in there.
Grandma, she’s got me in here and she 
won’t let me out!
What is all this, Jean Louise?
I haven’t got him in there, Aunty, I ain’t holdin‘ 
him.
Yes she is,
she won’t let me out!
Have you all been fussing?
Jean Louise got mad at me, Grandma,
Francis, come out of there! Jean Louise, if I hear another word out of you I’ll tell 
your father. Did I hear you say hell a while ago?
Nome.
I thought I did. I’d better not hear it again.
Don’t you fool with me,
Hah!
I ain’t botherin‘ you,
Nigger-lover…
Stand still!
Who started this?
Grandma,
she called me a 
whore-lady and jumped on me!
Is that true, Scout?
I reckon so.
You know I told you you’d get in trouble if you used words like that? I told you, 
didn’t I?
Yes sir, but—
Well, you’re in trouble now. Stay there.
I’ll never speak to you again as long as I live! I hate you an‘ despise you an’ 
hope you die tomorrow!
Go away!
Scout,
do you still hate me?
Go on, please sir.
Why, I didn’t think you’d hold it against me,
I’m disappointed in you
 —you had that coming and you know it.
Didn’t either.
Honey, you can’t go around calling people—
You ain’t fair,
you ain’t fair.
Not fair? How not?
You’re real nice, Uncle Jack, an‘ I reckon I love you even after what you did, but 
you don’t understand children much.
And why do I not 
understand children, Miss Jean Louise? Such conduct as yours required little 
understanding. It was obstreperous, disorderly and abusive—
You gonna give me a chance to tell you? I don’t mean to sass you, I’m just tryin‘ 
to tell you.
Proceed,
Well, in the first place you never stopped to gimme a 
chance to tell you my side of it—you just lit right into me. When Jem an‘ I fuss 
Atticus doesn’t ever just listen to Jem’s side of it, he hears mine too, an’ in the 
second place you told me never to use words like that except in ex-extreme 
provocation, and Francis provocated me enough to knock his block off—
What was your side of it, Scout?
Francis called Atticus somethin‘, an’ I wasn’t about to take it off him.
What did Francis call him?
A nigger-lover. I ain’t very sure what it means, but the way Francis said it—tell 
you one thing right now, Uncle Jack, I’ll be—I swear before God if I’ll sit there 
and let him say somethin‘ about Atticus.
He called Atticus that?
Yes sir, he did, an‘ a lot more. Said Atticus’d be the ruination of the family an’ 
he let Jem an me run wild…
We’ll see about this,
I’ve a good mind to go out 
there tonight.
Please sir, just let it go. Please.
I’ve no intention of letting it go,
Alexandra should know about this. 
The idea of—wait’ll I get my hands on that boy…
Uncle Jack, please promise me somethin‘, please sir. Promise you won’t tell 
Atticus about this. He—he asked me one time not to let anything I heard about 
him make me mad, an’ I’d ruther him think we were fightin‘ about somethin’ else 
instead. Please promise…
But I don’t like Francis getting away with something like that—
He didn’t. You reckon you could tie up my hand? It’s still bleedin‘ some.
Of course I will, baby. I know of no hand I would be more delighted to tie up. 
Will you come this way?
There now,
You’ll have a very 
unladylike scar on your wedding-ring finger.
Thank you sir. Uncle Jack?
Ma’am?
What’s a whore-lady?
I shall never marry, Atticus.
Why?
I might have children.
You’ve a lot to learn, Jack.
I know. Your daughter gave me my first lessons this afternoon. She said I didn’t 
understand children much and told me why. She was quite right. Atticus, she told 
me how I should have treated her—oh dear, I’m so sorry I romped on her.
She earned it, so don’t feel too remorseful.
Her use of bathroom invective leaves nothing to 
the imagination. But she doesn’t know the meaning of half she says—she asked 
me what a whore-lady was…
Did you tell her?
No, I told her about Lord Melbourne.
Jack! When a child asks you something, answer him, for goodness’ sake. But 
don’t make a production of it. Children are children, but they can spot an evasion 
quicker than adults, and evasion simply muddles ‘em. No,
you had the right answer this afternoon, but the wrong reasons. Bad language is 
a stage all children go through, and it dies with time when they learn they’re not 
attracting attention with it. Hotheadedness isn’t. Scout’s got to learn to keep her 
head and learn soon, with what’s in store for her these next few months. She’s 
coming along, though. Jem’s getting older and she follows his example a good bit 
now. All she needs is assistance sometimes.
Atticus, you’ve never laid a hand on her.
I admit that. So far I’ve been able to get by with threats. Jack, she minds me as 
well as she can. Doesn’t come up to scratch half the time, but she tries.
That’s not the answer,
No, the answer is she knows I know she tries. That’s what makes the difference. 
What bothers me is that she and Jem will have to absorb some ugly things pretty 
soon. I’m not worried about Jem keeping his head, but Scout’d just as soon jump 
on someone as look at him if her pride’s at stake…
Atticus, how bad is this going to be? You haven’t had too much chance to 
discuss it.
It couldn’t be worse, Jack. The only thing we’ve got is a black man’s word 
against the Ewells‘. The evidence boils down to you-did—I-didn’t. The jury 
couldn’t possibly be expected to take Tom Robinson’s word against the Ewells’—
 are you acquainted with the Ewells?
You’re a generation off. The present ones are the same, though.
What are you going to do, then?
Before I’m through, I intend to jar the jury a bit—I think we’ll have a reasonable 
chance on appeal, though. I really can’t tell at this stage, Jack. You know, I’d 
hoped to get through life without a case of this kind, but John Taylor pointed at 
me and said, ‘You’re It.’
Let this cup pass from you, eh?
Right. But do you think I could face my children otherwise? You know what’s 
going to happen as well as I do, Jack, and I hope and pray I can get Jem and Scout 
through it without bitterness, and most of all, without catching Maycomb’s usual 
disease. Why reasonable people go stark raving mad when anything involving a 
Negro comes up, is something I don’t pretend to understand… I just hope that 
Jem and Scout come to me for their answers instead of listening to the town. I 
hope they trust me enough… Jean Louise?
Sir?
Go to bed.
My 
father—
I’m too old for that, son.
I’d rather you shot at tin cans in the back yard, but I 
know you’ll go after birds. Shoot all the bluejays you want, if you can hit ‘em, but 
remember it’s a sin to kill a mockingbird.
Your father’s right,
Mockingbirds don’t do one thing but make music 
for us to enjoy. They don’t eat up people’s gardens, don’t nest in corncribs, they 
don’t do one thing but sing their hearts out for us. That’s why it’s a sin to kill a 
mockingbird.
Miss Maudie, this is an old neighborhood, ain’t it?
Been here longer than the town.
Nome, I mean the folks on our street are all old. Jem and me’s the only children 
around here. Mrs. Dubose is close on to a hundred and Miss Rachel’s old and so 
are you and Atticus.
I don’t call fifty very old,
Not being wheeled around 
yet, am I? Neither’s your father. But I must say Providence was kind enough to 
burn down that old mausoleum of mine, I’m too old to keep it up—maybe you’re 
right, Jean Louise, this is a settled neighborhood. You’ve never been around 
young folks much, have you?
Yessum, at school.
I mean young grown-ups. You’re lucky, you know. You and Jem have the 
benefit of your father’s age. If your father was thirty you’d find life quite 
different.
I sure would. Atticus can’t do anything…
You’d be surprised,
There’s life in him yet.
What can he do?
Well, he can make somebody’s will so airtight can’t anybody meddle with it.
Shoot…
Well, did you know he’s the best checker-player in this town? Why, down at the 
Landing when we were coming up, Atticus Finch could beat everybody on both 
sides of the river.
Good Lord, Miss Maudie, Jem and me beat him all the time.
It’s about time you found out it’s because he lets you. Did you know he can play 
a Jew’s Harp?
Well…
Well, what, Miss Maudie?
Well nothing. Nothing—it seems with all that you’d be proud of him. Can’t 
everybody play a Jew’s Harp. Now keep out of the way of the carpenters. You’d 
better go home, I’ll be in my azaleas and can’t watch you. Plank might hit you.
What are you shooting at?
Miss Maudie’s rear end.
Maudie,
I 
thought I’d better warn you. You’re in considerable peril.
Atticus, you are a 
devil from hell.
Don’t you ever let me catch 
you pointing that gun at anybody again,
Mr. Finch? Why, he can do lots of things.
Like what?
Well, I don’t rightly know,
Whatcha looking at?
That old dog down yonder,
That’s old Tim Johnson, ain’t it?
Yeah.
What’s he doing?
I don’t know, Scout. We better go home.
Aw Jem, it’s February.
I don’t care, I’m gonna tell Cal.
Cal,
can you come down the sidewalk a minute?
What for, Jem? I can’t come down the sidewalk every time you want me.
There’s somethin‘ wrong with an old dog down yonder.
I can’t wrap up any dog’s foot now. There’s some gauze in the 
bathroom, go get it and do it yourself.
He’s sick, Cal. Something’s wrong with him.
What’s he doin‘, trying to catch his tail?
No, he’s doin‘ like this.
He’s 
goin‘ like that, only not like he means to.
Are you telling me a story, Jem Finch?
No Cal, I swear I’m not.
Was he runnin‘?
No, he’s just moseyin‘ along, so slow you can’t hardly tell it. He’s comin’ this 
way.
I don’t see any dog,
He’s gone lopsided,
Gimme Mr. Finch’s 
office!
Mr. Finch!
This is Cal. I swear to God there’s a mad dog down 
the street a piece—he’s comin‘ this way, yes sir, he’s—Mr. Finch, I declare he is
 —old Tim Johnson, yes sir… yessir… yes—
Miss Eula May—now ma’am, I’m 
through talkin‘ to Mr. Finch, please don’t connect me no more—listen, Miss Eula 
May, can you call Miss Rachel and Miss Stephanie Crawford and whoever’s got a 
phone on this street and tell ’em a mad dog’s comin‘? Please ma’am!
I know it’s February, Miss Eula May, but I know a mad dog 
when I see one. Please ma’am hurry!
Radleys got a phone?
They won’t come out anyway, Cal.
I don’t care, I’m gonna tell ‘em.
You stay in that house!
Mr. Nathan, Mr. Arthur, mad dog’s comin‘! Mad 
dog’s comin’!
She’s supposed to go around in back,
Don’t make any difference now,
Stay inside, son,
Where is he, Cal?
He oughta be here by now,
Not runnin‘, is he?
Naw sir, he’s in the twitchin‘ stage, Mr. Heck.
Should we go after him, Heck?
We better wait, Mr. Finch. They usually go in a straight line, but you never can 
tell. He might follow the curve—hope he does or he’ll go straight in the Radley 
back yard. Let’s wait a minute.
Don’t think he’ll get in the Radley yard,
Fence’ll stop him. He’ll 
probably follow the road…
There he is,
Look at him,
Mr. Heck said they walked in a straight line. He 
can’t even stay in the road.
He looks more sick than anything,
Let anything get in front of him and he’ll come straight at it.
He’s got it all right, 
Mr. Finch.
He’s lookin‘ for a place to die,
He’s far from dead, Jem, he hasn’t got started yet.
He’s within range, Heck. You better get him before he goes down 
the side street—Lord knows who’s around the corner. Go inside, Cal.
Take him, Mr. Finch.
Don’t waste time, Heck,
Go on.
Mr. Finch, this is a one-shot job.
Don’t just stand there, Heck! He won’t wait 
all day for you—
For God’s sake, Mr. Finch, look where he is! Miss and you’ll go straight into the 
Radley house! I can’t shoot that well and you know it!
I haven’t shot a gun in thirty years—
I’d feel mighty comfortable if you did 
now,
Sweet Jesus help him,
You were a little to the right, Mr. Finch,
Always was,
If I had my ‘druthers I’d take a shotgun.
Stay where you are.
I’ll have 
Zeebo collect him,
You haven’t forgot much, Mr. Finch. They say it 
never leaves you.
Atticus?
Yes?
Nothin‘.
I saw that, One-Shot Finch!
Come here,
Don’t you go near that dog, you understand? Don’t go near him, 
he’s just as dangerous dead as alive.
Yes sir,
Atticus—
What, son?
Nothing.
What’s the matter with you, boy, can’t you talk?
Didn’t you know your daddy’s—
Hush, Heck,
let’s go back to town.
Uh, uh, uh, who’da thought 
of a mad dog in February? Maybe he wadn’t mad, maybe he was just crazy. I’d 
hate to see Harry Johnson’s face when he gets in from the Mobile run and finds 
Atticus Finch’s shot his dog. Bet he was just full of fleas from somewhere—
‘d you see him, Scout? ’d you see him just 
standin‘ there?… ’n‘ all of a sudden he just relaxed all over, an’ it looked like that 
gun was a part of him… an‘ he did it so quick, like… I hafta aim for ten minutes 
’fore I can hit somethin‘…
Well now, Miss Jean Louise,
still 
think your father can’t do anything? Still ashamed of him?
Nome,
Forgot to tell you the other day that besides playing the Jew’s Harp, Atticus 
Finch was the deadest shot in Maycomb County in his time.
Dead shot…
That’s what I said, Jem Finch. Guess you’ll change your tune now. The very 
idea, didn’t you know his nickname was Ol‘ One-Shot when he was a boy? Why, 
down at the Landing when he was coming up, if he shot fifteen times and hit 
fourteen doves he’d complain about wasting ammunition.
He never said anything about that,
Never said anything about it, did he?
No ma’am.
Wonder why he never goes huntin‘ now,
Maybe I can tell you,
If your father’s anything, he’s 
civilized in his heart. Marksmanship’s a gift of God, a talent—oh, you have to 
practice to make it perfect, but shootin’s different from playing the piano or the 
like. I think maybe he put his gun down when he realized that God had given him 
an unfair advantage over most living things. I guess he decided he wouldn’t shoot 
till he had to, and he had to today.
Looks like he’d be proud of it,
People in their right minds never take pride in their talents,
Don’t yawl 
come over here for a while,
Don’t say anything about it, Scout,
What? I certainly am. Ain’t everybody’s daddy the deadest shot in Maycomb 
County.
I reckon if he’d wanted us to know it, he’da told us. If he was proud of 
it, he’da told us.
Maybe it just slipped his mind,
Naw, Scout, it’s something you wouldn’t understand. Atticus is real old, but I 
wouldn’t care if he couldn’t do anything—I wouldn’t care if he couldn’t do a 
blessed thing.
Atticus is a gentleman, just like me!
Hey, Mrs. 
Dubose,
Don’t you say hey to me, you ugly girl! 
You say good afternoon, Mrs. Dubose!
Atticus
Easy does it, son,
She’s an old lady and she’s ill. You just 
hold your head high and be a gentleman. Whatever she says to you, it’s your job 
not to let her make you mad.
Good evening, Mrs. Dubose! You look like a 
picture this evening.
Where are you two going at this time of day?
Playing hooky, I 
suppose. I’ll just call up the principal and tell him!
Aw, it’s Saturday, Mrs. Dubose,
Makes no difference if it’s Saturday,
I wonder if your 
father knows where you are?
Mrs. Dubose, we’ve been goin‘ to town by ourselves since we were this high.
Don’t you lie to me!
Jeremy Finch, Maudie Atkinson told me you 
broke down her scuppernong arbor this morning. She’s going to tell your father 
and then you’ll wish you never saw the light of day! If you aren’t sent to the 
reform school before next week, my name’s not Dubose!
Don’t you contradict me!
And you—
what are you doing in those overalls? You should be in a 
dress and camisole, young lady! You’ll grow up waiting on tables if somebody 
doesn’t change your ways—a Finch waiting on tables at the O.K. Café—hah!
Come on, Scout,
Don’t pay any attention to her, just hold your 
head high and be a gentleman.
Not only a Finch waiting on tables but one in the 
courthouse lawing for niggers!
Yes indeed, what has this world come to when a Finch goes against his raising? 
I’ll tell you!
Your father’s no better than the niggers and trash he 
works for!
Look 
out now, Scout!
You just be a gentleman, son,
This looks like you.
Jem!
Jem,
are you responsible for this?
Yes sir.
Why’d you do it?
She said you lawed for niggers and trash.
You did this because she said that?
Yes sir,
Son, I have no doubt that you’ve been annoyed by your contemporaries about 
me lawing for niggers, as you say, but to do something like this to a sick old lady 
is inexcusable. I strongly advise you to go down and have a talk with Mrs. 
Dubose,
Come straight home afterward.
Go on, I said.
Come back here,
You’re mighty big to be rocked,
You don’t care what happens to him,
You just send him on to get shot 
at when all he was doin‘ was standin’ up for you.
It’s not time to worry yet,
I 
never thought Jem’d be the one to lose his head over this—thought I’d have more 
trouble with you.
Scout,
when summer comes you’ll have to keep your head about 
far worse things… it’s not fair for you and Jem, I know that, but sometimes we 
have to make the best of things, and the way we conduct ourselves when the chips 
are down—well, all I can say is, when you and Jem are grown, maybe you’ll look 
back on this with some compassion and some feeling that I didn’t let you down. 
This case, Tom Robinson’s case, is something that goes to the essence of a man’s 
conscience—Scout, I couldn’t go to church and worship God if I didn’t try to help 
that man.
Atticus, you must be wrong…
How’s that?
Well, most folks seem to think they’re right and you’re wrong…
They’re certainly entitled to think that, and they’re entitled to full respect for 
their opinions,
but before I can live with other folks I’ve got to live 
with myself. The one thing that doesn’t abide by majority rule is a person’s 
conscience.
Well, son?
I cleaned it up for her and said I was sorry, but I ain’t, and that I’d work on ‘em 
ever Saturday and try to make ’em grow back out.
There was no point in saying you were sorry if you aren’t,
Jem, 
she’s old and ill. You can’t hold her responsible for what she says and does. Of 
course, I’d rather she’d have said it to me than to either of you, but we can’t 
always have our ‘druthers.
Atticus,
she wants me 
to read to her.
Read to her?
Yes sir. She wants me to come every afternoon after school and Saturdays and 
read to her out loud for two hours. Atticus, do I have to?
Certainly.
But she wants me to do it for a month.
Then you’ll do it for a month.
Atticus, it’s all right on the sidewalk but inside it’s—it’s all dark 
and creepy. There’s shadows and things on the ceiling…
That should appeal to your imagination. Just pretend 
you’re inside the Radley house.
Mrs. Dubose?
Is that you, Jem Finch?
You got your sister with you. I don’t know—
Let ‘em both in, Jessie,
So you brought that dirty little sister of yours, did you?
My sister ain’t dirty and I ain’t scared of you,
You may commence reading, 
Jeremy.
Come closer,
Come to the side of the bed.
Pt,
Mrs. Dubose, are you all right?
Shoo,
you all go home.
It’s time for her medicine,
Did she frighten you?
No sir,
but she’s so nasty. She has fits or somethin‘. She spits a lot.
She can’t help that. When people are sick they don’t look nice sometimes.
She scared me,
You don’t have to go with Jem, you 
know.
Atticus,
what exactly is a nigger-lover?
Has somebody been calling you that?
No sir, Mrs. Dubose calls you that. She warms up every afternoon calling you 
that. Francis called me that last Christmas, that’s where I first heard it.
Is that the reason you jumped on him?
Yes sir…
Then why are you asking me what it means?
It was like he’d said snot-nose or 
somethin‘.
Scout,
nigger-lover is just one of those terms that don’t mean 
anything—like snot-nose. It’s hard to explain—ignorant, trashy people use it 
when they think somebody’s favoring Negroes over and above themselves. It’s 
slipped into usage with some people like ourselves, when they want a common, 
ugly term to label somebody.
You aren’t really a nigger-lover, then, are you?
I certainly am. I do my best to love everybody… I’m hard put, sometimes—
 baby, it’s never an insult to be called what somebody thinks is a bad name. It just 
shows you how poor that person is, it doesn’t hurt you. So don’t let Mrs. Dubose 
get you down. She has enough troubles of her own.
Come in!
I was coming 
from the office and didn’t see the children,
I thought they might still be 
here.
Do you 
know what time it is, Atticus?
Exactly fourteen minutes past five. The 
alarm clock’s set for five-thirty. I want you to know that.
I have a feeling that Jem’s reading days are numbered,
Only a week longer, I think,
just to make sure…
But—
Just one more week, son,
No,
Yes,
That’ll do,
Jeremy Finch, I told you you’d live to regret tearing up my camellias. You regret 
it now, don’t you?
Thought you could kill my Snow-on-the-Mountain, did you? Well, Jessie says 
the top’s growing back out. Next time you’ll know how to do it right, won’t you? 
You’ll pull it up by the roots, won’t you?
Don’t you mutter at me, boy! You hold up your head and say yes ma’am. Don’t 
guess you feel like holding it up, though, with your father what he is.
That’ll do,
And that’s all. Good-day to you.
I’m going down to Mrs. 
Dubose’s for a while,
I won’t be long.
What’d she want?
She’s dead, son,
She died a few minutes ago.
Oh,
Well.
Well is right,
She’s not suffering any more. She was sick for a 
long time. Son, didn’t you know what her fits were?
Mrs. Dubose was a morphine addict,
She took it as a pain-killer 
for years. The doctor put her on it. She’d have spent the rest of her life on it and 
died without so much agony, but she was too contrary—
Sir?
Just before your escapade she called me to make her will. Dr. 
Reynolds told her she had only a few months left. Her business affairs were in 
perfect order but she said, ‘There’s still one thing out of order.’
What was that?
She said she was going to leave this world beholden to nothing and nobody. Jem, 
when you’re sick as she was, it’s all right to take anything to make it easier, but it 
wasn’t all right for her. She said she meant to break herself of it before she died, 
and that’s what she did.
You mean that’s what her fits were?
Yes, that’s what they were. Most of the time you were reading to her I doubt if 
she heard a word you said. Her whole mind and body were concentrated on that 
alarm clock. If you hadn’t fallen into her hands, I’d have made you go read to her 
anyway. It may have been some distraction. There was another reason—
Did she die free?
As the mountain air,
She was conscious to the last, almost. 
Conscious,
and cantankerous. She still disapproved heartily of my 
doings, and said I’d probably spend the rest of my life bailing you out of jail. She 
had Jessie fix you this box—
Old hell-devil, old hell-devil!
Why can’t she leave me alone?
Sh-h,
I think that was her way of telling you—everything’s 
all right now, Jem, everything’s all right. You know, she was a great lady.
A lady?
After all those things she 
said about you, a lady?
She was. She had her own views about things, a lot different from mine, 
maybe… son, I told you that if you hadn’t lost your head I’d have made you go 
read to her. I wanted you to see something about her—I wanted you to see what 
real courage is, instead of getting the idea that courage is a man with a gun in his 
hand. It’s when you know you’re licked before you begin but you begin anyway 
and you see it through no matter what. You rarely win, but sometimes you do. 
Mrs. Dubose won, all ninety-eight pounds of her. According to her views, she 
died beholden to nothing and nobody. She was the bravest person I ever knew.
Reckon he’s got a tapeworm?
It’s time you started bein‘ a 
girl and acting right!
Don’t you fret too much over Mister Jem—
Mister Jem?
Yeah, he’s just about Mister Jem now.
He ain’t that old,
All he needs is somebody to beat him up, and I ain’t 
big enough.
Baby,
I just can’t help it if Mister Jem’s growin‘ up. He’s 
gonna want to be off to himself a lot now, doin’ whatever boys do, so you just 
come right on in the kitchen when you feel lonesome. We’ll find lots of things to 
do in here.
Maycomb’s Finch.
Yoo-hoo!
That’s a compliment,
He spends his time doin‘ things that 
wouldn’t get done if nobody did ’em.
Huh?
Oh, Scout, it’s like reorganizing the tax systems of the counties and things. That 
kind of thing’s pretty dry to most men.
How do you know?
Oh, go on and leave me alone. I’m readin‘ the paper.
What am I gonna do 
about you all’s church this Sunday?
Nothing, I reckon. Atticus left us collection.
Cal,
you know we’ll behave. We haven’t done anything in church in 
years.
Besides, Cal, this isn’t the first time Atticus has left us,
Yeah, but he makes certain your teacher’s gonna be there. I didn’t hear him say 
this time—reckon he forgot it.
How’d you and Mister Jem like to come to church with me tomorrow?
Really?
How ‘bout it?
Can’t anybody take a 
bath in this house without the whole family lookin‘?
go over our clothes.
It’s like we were goin‘ to Mardi Gras,
What’s all this for, Cal?
I don’t want anybody sayin‘ I don’t look after my children,
Mister Jem, you absolutely can’t wear that tie with that suit. It’s green.
‘smatter with that?
Suit’s blue. Can’t you tell?
Hee hee,
Jem’s color blind.
Now you all quit that. You’re gonna 
go to First Purchase with smiles on your faces.
What you up to, Miss Cal?
What you want, Lula?
I wants to know why you bringin‘ white chillun to nigger church.
They’s my comp’ny,
Yeah, an‘ I reckon you’s comp’ny at the Finch house durin’ the week.
Don’t you fret,
Stop right there, 
nigger.
You ain’t got no business bringin‘ white chillun here
 —they got their church, we got our’n. It is our church, ain’t it, Miss Cal?
It’s the same God, ain’t it?
Let’s go home, Cal, they don’t want us here—
Mister 
Jem,
we’re mighty glad to have you all here. Don’t pay no ‘tention to 
Lula, she’s contentious because Reverend Sykes threatened to church her. She’s a 
troublemaker from way back, got fancy ideas an’ haughty ways—we’re mighty 
glad to have you all.
We’ve got ours,
You keep it,
you’re my company.
Cal,
where are the hymn-books?
We don’t have any,
Well how—?
Sh-h,
Brethren and sisters, we are particularly glad to have company with us 
this morning. Mister and Miss Finch. You all know their father. Before I begin I 
will read some announcements.
The 
Missionary Society meets in the home of Sister Annette Reeves next Tuesday. 
Bring your sewing.
You all know of Brother Tom Robinson’s trouble. 
He has been a faithful member of First Purchase since he was a boy. The 
collection taken up today and for the next three Sundays will go to Helen—his 
wife, to help her out at home.
That’s the Tom Atticus’s de—
Sh-h!
Will the music superintendent lead us in the first hymn,
We’ll sing number two seventy-three.
How’re we gonna sing it if there ain’t any hymn
books?
Hush baby,
you’ll see in a minute.
There’s a land beyond the river.
That we call the 
sweet forever.
And we only reach that shore by faith’s decree.
Jubilee,
In that far-off sweet forever, just 
beyond the shining river.
Thank 
you, thank you,
This is not enough, we must 
have ten dollars.
You all know what it’s for—Helen can’t leave those 
children to work while Tom’s in jail. If everybody gives one more dime, we’ll 
have it—
Alec, shut the doors. Nobody leaves here till we have ten dollars.
Naw Cal,
we can 
put ours in. Gimme your dime, Scout.
Carlow Richardson, I haven’t 
seen you up this aisle yet.
I want all of you with no children to make a sacrifice 
and give one more dime apiece. Then we’ll have it.
We were ‘specially glad to have you all here,
This 
church has no better friend than your daddy.
Why were you all takin‘ up collection for Tom Robinson’s 
wife?
Didn’t you hear why?
Helen’s got three little’uns and 
she can’t go out to work—
Why can’t she take ‘em with her, Reverend?
To tell you the truth, Miss Jean Louise, Helen’s 
finding it hard to get work these days… when it’s picking time, I think Mr. Link 
Deas’ll take her.
Why not, Reverend?
We thank you for lettin‘ us come.
Cal, I know Tom Robinson’s in jail an‘ he’s done somethin’ awful, but why 
won’t folks hire Helen?
It’s because of what folks say Tom’s done,
Folks aren’t anxious to—
 to have anything to do with any of his family.
Just what did he do, Cal?
Old Mr. Bob Ewell accused him of rapin‘ his girl an’ had him 
arrested an‘ put in jail—
Mr. Ewell?
Does he have anything to do with those 
Ewells that come every first day of school an‘ then go home? Why, Atticus said 
they were absolute trash—I never heard Atticus talk about folks the way he talked 
about the Ewells. He said-
Yeah, those are the ones.
Well, if everybody in Maycomb knows what kind of folks the Ewells are they’d 
be glad to hire Helen… what’s rape, Cal?
It’s somethin‘ you’ll have to ask Mr. Finch about,
He can explain it 
better than I can. You all hungry? The Reverend took a long time unwindin’ this 
morning, he’s not usually so tedious.
He’s just like our preacher,
but why do you all sing hymns that 
way?
Linin‘?
Is that what it is?
Yeah, it’s called linin‘. They’ve done it that way as long as I can remember.
Wouldn’t do any good,
They can’t read.
Can’t read?
All those folks?
That’s right,
Can’t but about four folks in First Purchase 
read… I’m one of ‘em.
Where’d you go to school, Cal?
Nowhere. Let’s see now, who taught me my letters? It was Miss Maudie 
Atkinson’s aunt, old Miss Buford—
Are you that old?
I’m older than Mr. Finch, even.
Not sure how much, 
though. We started rememberin‘ one time, trying to figure out how old I was—I 
can remember back just a few years more’n he can, so I’m not much older, when 
you take off the fact that men can’t remember as well as women.
What’s your birthday, Cal?
I just have it on Christmas, it’s easier to remember that way—I don’t have a real 
birthday.
But Cal,
you don’t look even near as old as Atticus.
Colored folks don’t show their ages so fast,
Maybe because they can’t read. Cal, did you teach Zeebo?
Yeah, Mister Jem. There wasn’t a school even when he was a boy. I made him 
learn, though.
Did you teach him out of a primer, like us?
No, I made him get a page of the Bible every day, and there was a book Miss 
Buford taught me out of—bet you don’t know where I got it,
Your Granddaddy Finch gave it to me.
Were you from the Landing?
You never told us that.
I certainly am, Mister Jem. Grew up down there between the Buford Place and 
the Landin‘. I’ve spent all my days workin’ for the Finches or the Bufords, an‘ I 
moved to Maycomb when your daddy and your mamma married.
What was the book, Cal?
Blackstone’s Commentaries.
You mean you taught Zeebo outa that?
Why yes sir, Mister Jem.
They 
were the only books I had. Your grandaddy said Mr. Blackstone wrote fine 
English—
That’s why you don’t talk like the rest of ‘em,
The rest of who?
Rest of the colored folks. Cal, but you talked like they did in church…
Cal,
why do you talk nigger
talk to the—to your folks when you know it’s not right?
Well, in the first place I’m black—
That doesn’t mean you hafta talk that way when you know better,
It’s right hard to say,
Suppose you and Scout 
talked colored-folks’ talk at home it’d be out of place, wouldn’t it? Now what if I 
talked white-folks’ talk at church, and with my neighbors? They’d think I was 
puttin‘ on airs to beat Moses.
But Cal, you know better,
It’s not necessary to tell all you know. It’s not ladylike—in the second place, 
folks don’t like to have somebody around knowin‘ more than they do. It 
aggravates ’em. You’re not gonna change any of them by talkin‘ right, they’ve 
got to want to learn themselves, and when they don’t want to learn there’s nothing 
you can do but keep your mouth shut or talk their language.
Cal, can I come to see you sometimes?
See me, honey? You see me every day.
Out to your house,
Sometimes after work? Atticus can get me.
Any time you want to,
We’d be glad to have you.
Look on the porch yonder,
I mean our porch,
Put my bag in the front bedroom, Calpurnia,
Jean Louise, stop scratching your head,
I’ll take it,
Have you come for a visit, Aunty?
Didn’t your father tell you?
Probably he forgot. He’s not in yet, is he?
Nome, he doesn’t usually get back till late afternoon,
Well, your father and I decided it was time I came to stay with you for a while.
For a while
Jem’s growing up now and you are too,
We decided that it 
would be best for you to have some feminine influence. It won’t be many years, 
Jean Louise, before you become interested in clothes and boys—
What about Uncle Jimmy?
Is he comin‘, too?
Oh no, he’s staying at the Landing. He’ll keep the place going.
Won’t you miss him?
. Don
‘d you bring me a book? ’d you know Aunty’s here?
How’d you like for her to 
come live with us?
We felt it was time you children needed—well, it’s like this, Scout,
Your aunt’s doing me a favor as well as you all. I can’t stay here all day 
with you, and the summer’s going to be a hot one.
Yes sir,
Uh, uh, uh.
Aunty better watch how she talks—scratch most folks in 
Maycomb and they’re kin to us.
It just goes to show you, all the 
Penfield women are flighty.
Sister, when you stop to 
think about it, our generation’s practically the first in the Finch family not to 
marry its cousins. Would you say the Finches have an Incestuous Streak?
That makes the Ewells fine folks, then,
Jean 
Louise, come speak to these ladies.
Speak to your Cousin Lily,
Who?
Your Cousin Lily Brooke,
She our cousin? I didn’t know that.
Your cousin wrote this,
He was a beautiful character.
Is this the Cousin Joshua who was locked up 
for so long?
How did you know that?
Why, Atticus said he went round the bend at the University. Said he tried to 
shoot the president. Said Cousin Joshua said he wasn’t anything but a sewer
inspector and tried to shoot him with an old flintlock pistol, only it just blew up in 
his hand. Atticus said it cost the family five hundred dollars to get him out of that 
one—
That’s all,
We’ll see 
about this.
 
Er—h’rm,“ he said. He was beginning to preface some things he said with a 
throaty noise, and I thought he must at last be getting old, but he looked the same. 

 he began.
 “Well, just say it,
Have we done something?
No, I just want to explain to you that—your 
Aunt Alexandra asked me… son, you know you’re a Finch, don’t you?
That’s what I’ve been told.
Atticus, what’s the matter?
I’m trying to tell you the facts of 
life.
I know all that stuff,
Your aunt has asked me to try and impress upon you and Jean 
Louise that you are not from run-of-the-mill people, that you are the product of 
several generations’ gentle breeding—
Gentle breeding,
and that you 
should try to live up to your name—
She 
asked me to tell you you must try to behave like the little lady and gentleman that 
you are. She wants to talk to you about the family and what it’s meant to 
Maycomb County through the years, so you’ll have some idea of who you are, so 
you might be moved to behave accordingly,
Stop that noise,
Your stomach’s growling,
I know it,
You better take some soda.
I will,
Atticus, is all this behavin‘ an’ stuff gonna make things different? I mean are you
 —?
Don’t you worry about anything,
It’s not time to worry.
You really want 
us to do all that? I can’t remember everything Finches are supposed to do…
I don’t want you to remember it. Forget it.
Get more like Cousin Joshua every day, don’t I? 
Do you think I’ll end up costing the family five hundred dollars?
There’s his chillun,
Yonder’s some Finches.
They c’n go loose and rape up the countryside for all of ‘em who run this county 
care,
What’s rape?
Well if that’s all it is why did Calpurnia dry me up when I asked her what it 
was?
What’s that again?
Well, I asked Calpurnia comin‘ from church that day what it was and she said 
ask you but I forgot to and now I’m askin’ you.
Again, please,
You all were coming back from Calpurnia’s church that Sunday?
Yessum, she took us.
Yessum, and she promised me I could come out to her 
house some afternoon. Atticus. I’ll go next Sunday if it’s all right, can I? Cal said 
she’d come get me if you were off in the car.
You may not.
I didn’t ask you!
Apologize to your aunt,
I didn’t ask her, I asked you—
First, apologize to your aunt.
I’m sorry, Aunty,
Now then,
Let’s get this clear: you do as Calpurnia tells you, you do 
as I tell you, and as long as your aunt’s in this house, you will do as she tells you. 
Understand?
…you’ve got to do something about her,
You’ve let things 
go on too long, Atticus, too long.
I don’t see any harm in letting her go out there. Cal’d look after her there as well 
as she does here.
her
Atticus, it’s all right to be soft-hearted, you’re an easy man, but you have a 
daughter to think of. A daughter who’s growing up.
That’s what I am thinking of.
And don’t try to get around it. You’ve got to face it sooner or later and it might 
as well be tonight. We don’t need her now.
Alexandra, Calpurnia’s not leaving this house until she 
wants to. You may think otherwise, but I couldn’t have got along without her all 
these years. She’s a faithful member of this family and you’ll simply have to 
accept things the way they are. Besides, sister, I don’t want you working your 
head off for us—you’ve no reason to do that. We still need Cal as much as we 
ever did.
But Atticus—
Besides, I don’t think the children’ve suffered one bit from her having brought 
them up. If anything, she’s been harder on them in some ways than a mother 
would have been… she’s never let them get away with anything, she’s never 
indulged them the way most colored nurses do. She tried to bring them up 
according to her lights, and Cal’s lights are pretty good—and another thing, the 
children love her.
They’ve been fussing, Scout.
Scout, try not to antagonize Aunty, hear?
You tryin‘ to tell me what to do?
Naw, it’s—he’s got a lot on his mind now, without us worrying him.
Like what?
It’s this Tom Robinson case that’s worryin‘ him to death—
That’s because you can’t hold something in your mind but a little while,
It’s different with grown folks, we—
Jee crawling hova, Jem! Who do you think you are?
Now I mean it, Scout, you antagonize Aunty and I’ll—I’ll spank you.
You damn morphodite, I’ll kill you!
Ain’t so high and mighty now, are you!
That’s all,
Both of you go to bed right now.
Taah!
Who started it?
Jem did. He was tryin‘ to tell me what to do. I don’t have to mind him now, do 
I?
Let’s leave it at this: you mind Jem whenever he can make you. 
Fair enough?
…just one of the things I’ve been telling you about,
Night, 
Scout.
Night,
What,
How does a snake feel?
Sort of rough. Cold. Dusty. Why?
I think there’s one under my bed. Can you come look?
Are you bein‘ funny?
If you think I’m gonna put my 
face down to a snake you’ve got another think comin’. Hold on a minute.
You better get up on the bed,
You reckon it’s really one?
Do snakes grunt?
It ain’t a snake,
It’s somebody.
God Almighty.
Hey.
I’m ‘bout to perish,
Got anything to eat?
How’d you get here?
How’d you get here?
They must not know you’re here,
We’d know if they were lookin‘ 
for you…
Think they’re still searchin‘ all the picture shows in Meridian.
You oughta let your mother know where you are,
You oughta let her 
know you’re here…
Atticus,
can you come here a minute, sir?
It’s okay, Dill. When he wants you to know somethin‘, 
he tells you.
I mean it’s all right,
You know he wouldn’t bother 
you, you know you ain’t scared of Atticus.
I’m not scared…
Just hungry, I’ll bet.
Scout, we 
can do better than a pan of cold corn bread, can’t we? You fill this fellow up and 
when I get back we’ll see what we can see.
Mr. Finch, don’t tell Aunt Rachel, don’t make me go back, please sir! I’ll run off 
again—!
Whoa, son,
Nobody’s about to make you go anywhere but to bed 
pretty soon. I’m just going over to tell Miss Rachel you’re here and ask her if you 
could spend the night with us—you’d like that, wouldn’t you? And for goodness’ 
sake put some of the county back where it belongs, the soil erosion’s bad enough 
as it is.
He’s tryin‘ to be funny,
He means take a bath. See there, I told you he 
wouldn’t bother you.
Dill, I 
had to tell him,
You can’t run three hundred miles off without your 
mother knowin‘.
, was quite calm during That
Your father’s tired,
You children 
get to bed now.
From rape to riot 
to runaways,
I wonder what the next two hours will 
bring.
Move over, Scout.
He thought he had to,
Don’t stay mad with him.
I ain’t,
I just wanted to sleep with you. Are 
you waked up?
Why’d you do it?
I said why’d you run off? Was he really hateful like you said?
Naw…
Didn’t you all build that boat like you wrote you were gonna?
He just said we would. We never did.
It’s no reason to run off. They 
don’t get around to doin‘ what they say they’re gonna do half the time…
That wasn’t it, he—they just wasn’t interested in me.
How come?
Well, they stayed gone all the time, and when they were home, even, they’d get 
off in a room by themselves.
What’d they do in there?
Nothin‘, just sittin’ and readin‘—but they didn’t want me with ’em.
You know something? I was 
fixin‘ to run off tonight because there they all were. You don’t want ’em around 
you all the time, Dill—
—good night, Atticus’s gone all day and sometimes half the night and off in the 
legislature and I don’t know what—you don’t want ‘em around all the time, Dill, 
you couldn’t do anything if they were.
That’s not it.
Dill, you ain’t telling me right—your folks couldn’t do without you. They must 
be just mean to you. Tell you what to do about that—
The thing is, what I’m tryin‘ to say 
is—they do get on a lot better without me, I can’t help them any. They ain’t mean. 
They buy me everything I want, but it’s now—you’ve-got-it-go-play-with-it. 
You’ve got a roomful of things. I-got-you-that-book-so-go-read-it.
You’re not a boy. Boys get out and play baseball with other 
boys, they don’t hang around the house worryin’ their folks.
Oh, they ain’t mean. They kiss you and hug you 
good night and good mornin‘ and good-bye and tell you they love you—Scout, 
let’s get us a baby.
Where?
That’s a lie. Aunty said God drops ‘em down the chimney. At least that’s what I 
think she said.
Well that ain’t so. You get babies from each other. But there’s this man, too—he 
has all these babies just waitin‘ to wake up, he breathes life into ’em…
Dill?
Mm?
Why do you reckon Boo Radley’s never run off?
Maybe he doesn’t have anywhere to run off to…
Well, ask him to come in,
I already did. There’s some men outside in the yard, they want you to come out.
Go back in the house.
Just for a second, Aunty, let’s see who it is,
…movin‘ him to the county jail tomorrow,
I don’t look 
for any trouble, but I can’t guarantee there won’t be any…
Don’t be foolish, Heck,
This is Maycomb.
…said I was just uneasy.
Heck, we’ve gotten one postponement of this case just to make sure there’s 
nothing to be uneasy about. This is Saturday,
Trial’ll probably be 
Monday. You can keep him one night, can’t you? I don’t think anybody in 
Maycomb’ll begrudge me a client, with times this hard.
Nobody around here’s up to anything, it’s that Old Sarum bunch I’m worried 
about… can’t you get a—what is it, Heck?
Change of venue,
Not much point in that, now is it?
—besides,
you’re not scared of that crowd, are you?
…know how they do when they get shinnied up.
They don’t usually drink on Sunday, they go to church most of the day…
This is a special occasion, though…
—don’t see why you touched it in the first place,
You’ve got everything to lose from this, Atticus. I mean everything.
Do you really think so?
Do you really think you want to move 
there, Scout?
Do you really think that, son? Then read this.
Link, that boy might go to the chair, but he’s not going till the truth’s told.
And you know what the truth is.
Atticus, the telephone’s ringing!
Well, answer it, son,
Why on earth are you all sitting in the dark?
They were after you, weren’t they?
They wanted to get you, 
didn’t they?
What have you been reading?
No son, those were our friends.
It wasn’t a—a gang?
No, we don’t have mobs and that 
nonsense in Maycomb. I’ve never heard of a gang in Maycomb.
Ku Klux got after some Catholics one time.
Never heard of any Catholics in Maycomb either,
you’re 
confusing that with something else. Way back about nineteen-twenty there was a 
Klan, but it was a political organization more than anything. Besides, they 
couldn’t find anybody to scare. They paraded by Mr. Sam Levy’s house one 
night, but Sam just stood on his porch and told ‘em things had come to a pretty 
pass, he’d sold ’em the very sheets on their backs. Sam made ‘em so ashamed of 
themselves they went away.
The Ku Klux’s gone,
It’ll never come back.
…in favor of Southern womanhood as much as anybody, but not for preserving 
polite fiction at the expense of human life,
Have they 
been at it?
Sort of. She won’t let him alone about Tom Robinson. She almost said Atticus 
was disgracin‘ the family. Scout… I’m scared.
Scared’a what?
Scared about Atticus. Somebody might hurt him.
Nearer my God 
to thee,
I’m going out for a while,
You folks’ll be in bed when I come back, so 
I’ll say good night now.
He’s takin‘ the car,
Why ain’t you going to bed?
I’m goin‘ downtown for a while.
Why? It’s almost ten o’clock, Jem.
Then I’m goin‘ with you. If you say no you’re not, I’m goin’ anyway, hear?
Dill’ll wanta come,
So he will,
What’s up?
Jem’s got the look-arounds,
I’ve just got this feeling,
just this feeling.
He’s in there,
Let’s go up the street. Maybe he’s visitin‘ Mr. Underwood.
That’s funny,
jail doesn’t have an outside light.
Looks like it’s over the door,
Don’t go to him,
he might not like 
it. He’s all right, let’s go home. I just wanted to see where he was.
Come on,
We 
can get closer,
He in there, Mr. Finch?
He is,
and he’s asleep. Don’t wake him up.
You know what we want,
Get aside from the door, Mr. 
Finch.
You can turn around and go home again, Walter,
Heck 
Tate’s around somewhere.
The hell he is,
Heck’s bunch’s so deep in the woods they 
won’t get out till mornin‘.
Indeed? Why so?
Called ‘em off on a snipe hunt,
Didn’t you think 
a’that, Mr. Finch?
Thought about it, but didn’t believe it. Well then,
that changes things, doesn’t it?
It do,
Do you really think so?
H-ey, Atticus!
Go home, Jem,
Take Scout and Dill home.
Go home, I said.
Son, I said go home.
I’ll send him home,
Don’t you touch him!
That’ll do, Scout.
Don’t kick folks. No
 —
Ain’t nobody gonna do Jem that way,
All right, Mr. Finch, get ‘em outa here,
You got fifteen 
seconds to get ’em outa here.
I ain’t going,
Please Jem, take them home.
Hey, Mr. Cunningham.
Hey, Mr. Cunningham. How’s your entailment gettin‘ along?
Don’t you remember me, Mr. Cunningham? I’m Jean Louise Finch. You brought 
us some hickory nuts one time, remember?
I go to school with Walter,
He’s your boy, ain’t he? Ain’t he, 
sir?
He’s in my grade,
and he does right well. He’s a good boy,
a 
real nice boy. We brought him home for dinner one time. Maybe he told you 
about me, I beat him up one time but he was real nice about it. Tell him hey for 
me, won’t you?
Entailments are bad,
Well, Atticus, I was just sayin‘ to Mr. Cunningham that entailments are bad an’ 
all that, but you said not to worry, it takes a long time sometimes… that you all’d 
ride it out together…
What’s the matter?
I’ll tell him you said hey, little lady,
Let’s clear out,
Let’s 
get going, boys.
Can we go home now?
Mr. Finch?
They gone?
They’ve gone,
Get some sleep, 
Tom. They won’t bother you any more.
You’re 
damn tootin‘ they won’t. Had you covered all the time, Atticus.
Can I carry it for you, Mr. Finch?
Why, thank you, son.
Try to go to sleep,
It’ll be all over after tomorrow, maybe.
Nonsense, Mr. Underwood was there all the time.
You know, it’s a funny thing about Braxton,
He despises 
Negroes, won’t have one near him.
You’re still too little,
I’ll tell you when you ain’t.
All right,
Don’t talk like that 
in front of them.
Talk like what in front of whom?
Like that in front of Calpurnia. You said Braxton Underwood despises Negroes 
right in front of her.
Well, I’m sure Cal knows it. Everybody in Maycomb knows it.
Anything fit to 
say at the table’s fit to say in front of Calpurnia. She knows what she means to 
this family.
I don’t think it’s a good habit, Atticus. It encourages them. You know how they 
talk among themselves. Every thing that happens in this town’s out to the 
Quarters before sundown.
I don’t know of any law that says they can’t talk. 
Maybe if we didn’t give them so much to talk about they’d be quiet. Why don’t 
you drink your coffee, Scout?
I thought Mr. Cunningham was a friend of 
ours. You told me a long time ago he was.
He still is.
But last night he wanted to hurt you.
Mr. 
Cunningham’s basically a good man,
he just has his blind spots along 
with the rest of us.
Don’t call that a blind spot. He’da killed you last night when he first 
went there.
 “ 
“He might have hurt me a little,
but son, you’ll understand 
folks a little better when you’re older. A mob’s always made up of people, no 
matter what. Mr. Cunningham was part of a mob last night, but he was still a man. 
Every mob in every little Southern town is always made up of people you know—
 doesn’t say much for them, does it?
I’ll say not,
So it took an eight-year-old child to bring ‘em to their senses, didn’t it?
That proves something—that a gang of wild animals can be stopped, 
simply because they’re still human. Hmp, maybe we need a police force of 
children… you children last night made Walter Cunningham stand in my shoes 
for a minute. That was enough.
First day Walter comes back to school’ll be his last,
You will not touch him,
I don’t want either of you bearing a 
grudge about this thing, no matter what happens.
You see, don’t you,
what comes of things like this. 
Don’t say I haven’t told you.
There’s a day 
ahead, so excuse me. Jem, I don’t want you and Scout downtown today, please.
It’s 
all over town this morning,
all about how we held off a hundred 
folks with our bare hands…
It was not a 
hundred folks,
and nobody held anybody off. It was just a nest of 
those Cunninghams, drunk and disorderly.
Aw, Aunty, that’s just Dill’s way,
You all stay in the yard today,
Don’t see how he stays 
in the saddle,
How c’n you stand to get drunk ‘fore eight in the 
morning?
Yonder’s some 
Mennonites,
They don’t have buttons.
They’ve all got blue eyes,
and the men 
can’t shave after they marry. Their wives like for ‘em to tickle ’em with their 
beards.
He’s a funny man,
X’s his name, not his initial. He was in court one time and they asked him his 
name. He said X Billups. Clerk asked him to spell it and he said X. Asked him 
again and he said X. They kept at it till he wrote X on a sheet of paper and held it 
up for everybody to see. They asked him where he got his name and he said that’s 
the way his folks signed him up when he was born.
He that cometh in vanity departeth in darkness!
A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance!
You goin‘ to court this morning?
I am not,
I have no business with the court this morning.
Aren’t you goin‘ down to watch?
I am not. ‘t’s morbid, watching a poor devil on trial for his life. Look at all those 
folks, it’s like a Roman carnival.
They hafta try him in public, Miss Maudie,
Wouldn’t be right if they 
didn’t.
I’m quite aware of that,
Just because it’s public, I don’t have to go, 
do I?
Um, um, um,
Look at all those folks—you’d think William Jennings Bryan was 
speakin‘.
And where are you going, Stephanie?
To the Jitney Jungle.
Well,
I thought I might just look in at the courthouse, to 
see what Atticus’s up to.
Better be careful he doesn’t hand you a subpoena.
Jem,
he’s drinkin‘ out of a sack.
Ain’t ever seen anybody do that,
How does he keep what’s in it in it?
He’s got a Co-Cola bottle full of whiskey in there. That’s so’s not 
to upset the ladies. You’ll see him sip it all afternoon, he’ll step out for a while 
and fill it back up.
Why’s he sittin‘ with the colored folks?
Always does. He likes ‘em better’n he likes us, I reckon. Lives by himself way 
down near the county line. He’s got a colored woman and all sorts of mixed 
chillun. Show you some of ’em if we see ‘em.
He doesn’t look like trash,
He’s not, he owns all one side of the riverbank down there, and he’s from a real 
old family to boot.
Then why does he do like that?
That’s just his way,
They say he never got over his weddin‘. He was 
supposed to marry one of the—the Spencer ladies, I think. They were gonna have 
a huge weddin’, but they didn’t—after the rehearsal the bride went upstairs and 
blew her head off. Shotgun. She pulled the trigger with her toes.
Did they ever know why?
No,
nobody ever knew quite why but Mr. Dolphus. They said it was 
because she found out about his colored woman, he reckoned he could keep her 
and get married too. He’s been sorta drunk ever since. You know, though, he’s 
real good to those chillun—
Jem,
what’s a mixed child?
Half white, half colored. You’ve seen ‘em, Scout. You know that red-kinky
headed one that delivers for the drugstore. He’s half white. They’re real sad.
Sad, how come?
They don’t belong anywhere. Colored folks won’t have ‘em because they’re half 
white; white folks won’t have ’em cause they’re colored, so they’re just in
betweens, don’t belong anywhere. But Mr. Dolphus, now, they say he’s shipped 
two of his up north. They don’t mind ‘em up north. Yonder’s one of ’em.
That’s one of the little ones,
How can you tell?
He looked black to me.
You can’t sometimes, not unless you know who they are. But he’s half 
Raymond, all right.
But how can you tell?
I told you, Scout, you just hafta know who they are.
Well how do you know we ain’t Negroes?
Uncle Jack Finch says we really don’t know. He says as far as he can trace back 
the Finches we ain’t, but for all he knows we mighta come straight out of Ethiopia 
durin‘ the Old Testament.
Well if we came out durin‘ the Old Testament it’s too long ago to matter.
That’s what I thought,
but around here once you have a drop of 
Negro blood, that makes you all black. Hey, look—
Let’s go in,
Naw, we better wait till they get in, Atticus might not like it if he sees us,
…thinks he knows what he’s doing,
Oh-h now, I wouldn’t say that,
Atticus Finch’s a deep reader, a 
mighty deep reader.
He reads all right, that’s all he does.
Lemme tell you somethin‘ now, Billy,
you know the court 
appointed him to defend this nigger.
Yeah, but Atticus aims to defend him. That’s what I don’t like about it.
Whoa now, just a minute,
Just don’t start up them there stairs yet awhile.
Scout, come on, there ain’t a 
seat left. We’ll hafta stand up.
Looka there, now.
Can’t you all get in?
Hey, Reverend,
Naw, Scout here messed us up.
Well, let’s see what we can do.
There’s 
not a seat downstairs. Do you all reckon it’ll be all right if you all came to the 
balcony with me?
Gosh yes,
Mr. 
Whitley, do that again and it’ll cost you one hundred dollars.
Champertous connivance,
Jem,
are those the Ewells sittin‘ down yonder?
Hush,
Mr. Heck Tate’s testifyin‘.
…in your own words, Mr. Tate,
Well,
I was 
called—
Could you say it to the jury, Mr. Tate? Thank you. Who called you?
I was fetched by Bob—by Mr. Bob Ewell yonder, one night—
What night, sir?
It was the night of November twenty-first. I was just leaving my 
office to go home when B—Mr. Ewell came in, very excited he was, and said get 
out to his house quick, some nigger’d raped his girl.
Did you go?
Certainly. Got in the car and went out as fast as I could.
And what did you find?
Found her lying on the floor in the middle of the front room, one on the right as 
you go in. She was pretty well beat up, but I heaved her to her feet and she 
washed her face in a bucket in the corner and said she was all right. I asked her 
who hurt her and she said it was Tom Robinson—
—asked her if he beat her like that, she said yes he had. Asked her if he took 
advantage of her and she said yes he did. So I went down to Robinson’s house 
and brought him back. She identified him as the one, so I took him in. That’s all 
there was to it.
Thank you,
Any questions, Atticus?
Yes,
Did you call a doctor, Sheriff? Did anybody call a doctor?
No sir,
Didn’t call a doctor?
No sir,
Why not?
Well I can tell you why I didn’t. It wasn’t necessary, Mr. Finch. She was mighty 
banged up. Something sho‘ happened, it was obvious.
But you didn’t call a doctor? While you were there did anyone send for one, 
fetch one, carry her to one?
No sir—
He’s answered the question three times, Atticus. He 
didn’t call a doctor.
I just wanted to make sure, Judge,
What is it?
Sh-h!
Sheriff,
you say she was mighty banged up. In what way?
Well—
Just describe her injuries, Heck.
Well, she was beaten around the head. There was already bruises comin‘ on her 
arms, and it happened about thirty minutes before—
How do you know?
Sorry, that’s what they said. Anyway, she was pretty bruised 
up when I got there, and she had a black eye comin‘.
Which eye?
Let’s see,
Can’t you 
remember?
Her 
left.
Wait a minute, Sheriff,
Was it her left facing you or her left 
looking the same way you were?
Oh yes, that’d make it her right. It was her right eye, Mr. Finch. I 
remember now, she was bunged up on that side of her face…
Sheriff, please repeat what you said.
It was her right eye, I said.
No…
‘Mr. Finch. I remember now she was bunged up on that side of the face.’
Which side again, Heck?
The right side, Mr. Finch, but she had more bruises—you wanta hear about ‘em?
Yes, what were her other injuries?
…her arms were bruised, and she showed me her neck. There were definite 
finger marks on her gullet—
All around her throat? At the back of her neck?
I’d say they were all around, Mr. Finch.
You would?
Yes sir, she had a small throat, anybody could’a reached around it with—
Just answer the question yes or no, please, Sheriff,
Mr. Finch? They gone?
…Robert E. Lee Ewell!
—so help me God,
. It was necessary either to 
back out to the highway or go the full length of the road and turn around; most 
people turned around in the Negroes
Mr. Robert Ewell?
That’s m’name, cap’n,
Are you the father of Mayella Ewell?
Well, if I ain’t I can’t do nothing about it now, her ma’s dead,
Are you the father of Mayella Ewell?
Yes sir,
This the first time you’ve ever been 
in court? I don’t recall ever seeing you here.
Well, let’s get something straight. There will be no more audibly 
obscene speculations on any subject from anybody in this courtroom as long as 
I’m sitting here. Do you understand?
All 
right, Mr. Gilmer?
Thank you, sir. Mr. Ewell, would you tell us in your own words what happened 
on the evening of November twenty-first, please?
Well, the night of November twenty-one I was comin‘ in from the woods with a 
load o’kindlin’ and just as I got to the fence I heard Mayella screamin‘ like a 
stuck hog inside the house—
What time was it, Mr. Ewell?
Just ‘fore sundown. Well, I was sayin’ Mayella was screamin‘ fit to beat Jesus
 —
Yes? She was screaming?
Well, Mayella was raisin‘ this holy 
racket so I dropped m’load and run as fast as I could but I run into th’ fence, but 
when I got distangled I run up to th‘ window and I seen—
—I seen that black 
nigger yonder ruttin’ on my Mayella!
Mr. Jem,
you better take Miss Jean Louise home. Mr. Jem, you hear me?
Scout, go home. Dill, you’n‘Scout go home.
You gotta make me first,
I think it’s okay, 
Reverend, she doesn’t understand it.
I most certainly do, I c’n understand anything you can.
Aw hush. She doesn’t understand it, Reverend, she ain’t nine yet.
Mr. Finch know you all are here? 
This ain’t fit for Miss Jean Louise or you boys either.
He can’t see us this far away. It’s all right, Reverend.
There has been a request,
that this courtroom be cleared of 
spectators, or at least of women and children, a request that will be denied for the 
time being. People generally see what they look for, and hear what they listen for, 
and they have the right to subject their children to it, but I can assure you of one 
thing: you will receive what you see and hear in silence or you will leave this 
courtroom, but you won’t leave it until the whole boiling of you come before me 
on contempt charges. Mr. Ewell, you will keep your testimony within the confines 
of Christian English usage, if that is possible. Proceed, Mr. Gilmer.
Mr. Ewell, did you see 
the defendant having sexual intercourse with your daughter?
Yes, I did.
You say you were at the window?
Yes sir.
How far is it from the ground?
‘bout three foot.
Did you have a clear view of the room?
Yes sir.
How did the room look?
Well, it was all slung about, like there was a fight.
What did you do when you saw the defendant?
Well, I run around the house to get in, but he run out the front door just ahead of 
me. I sawed who he was, all right. I was too distracted about Mayella to run 
after’im. I run in the house and she was lyin‘ on the floor squallin’—
Then what did you do?
Why, I run for Tate quick as I could. I knowed who it was, all right, lived down 
yonder in that nigger-nest, passed the house every day. Jedge, I’ve asked this 
county for fifteen years to clean out that nest down yonder, they’re dangerous to 
live around ‘sides devaluin’ my property—
Thank you, Mr. Ewell,
Just a minute, sir,
Could I ask you a question or two?
Mr. Ewell,
folks were doing a lot of running that night. Let’s 
see, you say you ran to the house, you ran to the window, you ran inside, you ran 
to Mayella, you ran for Mr. Tate. Did you, during all this running, run for a 
doctor?
Wadn’t no need to. I seen what happened.
But there’s one thing I don’t understand,
Weren’t you concerned 
with Mayella’s condition?
I most positively was,
I seen who done it.
No, I mean her physical condition. Did you not think the nature of her injuries 
warranted immediate medical attention?
What?
Didn’t you think she should have had a doctor, immediately?
That all?
Not quite,
Mr. Ewell, you heard the sheriff’s testimony, 
didn’t you?
How’s that?
You were in the courtroom when Mr. Heck Tate was on the stand, weren’t you? 
You heard everything he said, didn’t you?
Yes,
Do you agree with his description of Mayella’s injuries?
How’s that?
Mr. Tate testified that her right eye was blackened, that she was beaten around 
the—
Oh yeah,
I hold with everything Tate said.
You do?
I just want to make sure.
…which eye 
her left oh yes that’d make it her right it was her right eye Mr. Finch I remember 
now she was bunged.
Up on that side of the face Sheriff 
please repeat what you said it was her right eye I said—
Thank you, Bert,
You heard it again, Mr. Ewell. Do you have 
anything to add to it? Do you agree with the sheriff?
I holds with Tate. Her eye was blacked and she was mighty beat up.
Mr. Ewell, can you read and write?
Objection,
Can’t see what witness’s literacy 
has to do with the case, irrelevant’n‘immaterial.
Judge, if you’ll allow the 
question plus another one you’ll soon see.
All right, let’s see,
but make sure we see, Atticus. 
Overruled.
I’ll repeat the question,
Can you read and write?
I most positively can.
Will you write your name and show us?
I most positively will. How do you think I sign my relief checks?
Would you write your name for us?
Clearly now, so the jury can see you do it.
What’s so interestin‘?
You’re left-handed, Mr. Ewell,
About your writing with your left 
hand, are you ambidextrous, Mr. Ewell?
I most positively am not, I can use one hand good as the other. One hand good as 
the other,
We’ve got him.
Mayella Violet Ewell—!
Where were you at dusk on that evening?
On the porch.
Which porch?
Ain’t but one, the front porch.
What were you doing on the porch?
Nothin‘.
Just tell us what happened. You can do that, can’t you?
That’s enough 
now. Don’t be ‘fraid of anybody here, as long as you tell the truth. All this is 
strange to you, I know, but you’ve nothing to be ashamed of and nothing to fear. 
What are you scared of?
What was that?
Him,
Mr. Finch?
Don’t want him doin‘ me like he done Papa, 
tryin’ to make him out lefthanded…
How old are you?
Nineteen-and-a-half,
Mr. Finch has no idea of scaring you,
and if he did, I’m 
here to stop him. That’s one thing I’m sitting up here for. Now you’re a big girl, 
so you just sit up straight and tell the—tell us what happened to you. You can do 
that, can’t you?
Has she got good sense?
Can’t tell yet,
She’s got 
enough sense to get the judge sorry for her, but she might be just—oh, I don’t 
know.
Well sir, I was on the porch and—and he came along and, you see, there was this 
old chiffarobe in the yard Papa’d brought in to chop up for kindlin‘—Papa told 
me to do it while he was off in the woods but I wadn’t feelin’ strong enough then, 
so he came by-
Who is ‘he’?
I’ll have to ask you to be more specific, 
please,
The reporter can’t put down gestures very well.
That’n yonder,
Robinson.
Then what happened?
I said come here, nigger, and bust up this chiffarobe for me, I gotta nickel for 
you. He coulda done it easy enough, he could. So he come in the yard an‘ I went 
in the house to get him the nickel and I turned around an ’fore I knew it he was on 
me. Just run up behind me, he did. He got me round the neck, cussin‘ me an’ 
sayin‘ dirt—I fought’n’hollered, but he had me round the neck. He hit me agin 
an‘ agin—
-he chunked me on the floor an‘ choked 
me’n took advantage of me.
Did you scream?
Did you scream and fight back?
Reckon I did, hollered for all I was worth, kicked and hollered loud as I could.
Then what happened?
I don’t remember too good, but next thing I knew Papa was in the room 
a’standing over me hollerin‘ who done it, who done it? Then I sorta fainted an’ 
the next thing I knew Mr. Tate was pullin‘ me up offa the floor and leadin’ me to 
the water bucket.
You say you fought him off as hard as you could? Fought him tooth and nail?
I positively did,
You are positive that he took full advantage of you?
He done what he was after.
That’s all for the time being,
but you stay there. I expect 
big bad Mr. Finch has some questions to ask you.
State will not prejudice the witness against counsel for the defense,
at least not at this time.
Miss Mayella,
I won’t try to scare you for a while, not yet. 
Let’s just get acquainted. How old are you?
Said I was nineteen, said it to the judge yonder.
So you did, so you did, ma’am. You’ll have to bear with me, Miss Mayella, I’m 
getting along and can’t remember as well as I used to. I might ask you things 
you’ve already said before, but you’ll give me an answer, won’t you? Good.
Won’t answer a word you say long as you keep on mockin‘ me,
Ma’am?
Long’s you keep on makin‘ fun o’me.
Mr. Finch is not making fun of you. What’s the matter with 
you?
Long’s he keeps on callin‘ me ma’am an sayin’ Miss Mayella. I don’t hafta take 
his sass, I ain’t called upon to take it.
That’s just Mr. Finch’s way,
We’ve done business in this court for years and years, and Mr. Finch is 
always courteous to everybody. He’s not trying to mock you, he’s trying to be 
polite. That’s just his way.
Atticus, let’s get on with these proceedings, and let the 
record show that the witness has not been sassed, her views to the contrary.
ma’am,
Miss Mayella
You say you’re nineteen,
How many sisters and brothers 
have you?
Seb’m,
You the eldest? The oldest?
Yes.
How long has your mother been dead?
Don’t know—long time.
Did you ever go to school?
Read’n‘write good as Papa yonder.
How long did you go to school?
Two year—three year—dunno.
Miss Mayella,
a nineteen-year-old girl like 
you must have friends. Who are your friends?
Friends?
Yes, don’t you know anyone near your age, or older, or younger? Boys and 
girls? Just ordinary friends?
You 
makin‘ fun o’me agin, Mr. Finch?
Do you love your father, Miss Mayella?
Love him, whatcha mean?
I mean, is he good to you, is he easy to get along with?
He does tollable, ‘cept when—
Except when?
Except when nothin‘,
I said he does tollable.
Except when he’s drinking?
Does he ever go after you?
How you mean?
When he’s—riled, has he ever beaten you?
Answer the 
question, Miss Mayella,
My paw’s never touched a hair o’my head in my life,
He 
never touched me.
We’ve 
had a good visit, Miss Mayella, and now I guess we’d better get to the case. You 
say you asked Tom Robinson to come chop up a—what was it?
A chiffarobe, a old dresser full of drawers on one side.
Was Tom Robinson well known to you?
Whaddya mean?
I mean did you know who he was, where he lived?
I knowed who he was, he passed the house every day.
Was this the first time you asked him to come inside the fence?
Was—
Yes it was.
Didn’t you ever ask him to come inside the fence before?
I did not, I certainly did not.
One did not’s enough,
You never asked him to do odd 
jobs for you before?
I mighta,
There was several niggers around.
Can you remember any other occasions?
No.
All right, now to what happened. You said Tom Robinson was behind you in the 
room when you turned around, that right?
Yes.
You said he ‘got you around the neck cussing and saying dirt’—is that right?
‘t’s right.
You say ‘he caught me and 
choked me and took advantage of me’—is that right?
That’s what I said.
Do you remember him beating you about the face?
You seem sure enough that he choked you. All this time you were fighting back, 
remember? You ‘kicked and hollered as loud as you could.’ Do you remember 
him beating you about the face?
It’s an easy question, Miss Mayella, so I’ll try again. Do you remember him 
beating you about the face?
Do you remember him beating 
you about the face?
No, I don’t recollect if he hit me. I mean yes I do, he hit me.
Was your last sentence your answer?
Huh? Yes, he hit—I just don’t remember, I just don’t remember… it all 
happened so quick.
Don’t you cry, young woman—
Let her cry if she wants to, Judge. We’ve got all the time 
in the world.
I’ll answer any question you 
got—get me up here an‘ mock me, will you? I’ll answer any question you got—
That’s fine,
There’re only a few more. Miss Mayella, not to be 
tedious, you’ve testified that the defendant hit you, grabbed you around the neck, 
choked you, and took advantage of you. I want you to be sure you have the right 
man. Will you identify the man who raped you?
I will, that’s him right yonder.
Tom, stand up. Let Miss Mayella have a good 
long look at you. Is this the man, Miss Mayella?
Scout,
Scout, look! Reverend, he’s crippled!
He got it caught in a 
cotton gin, caught it in Mr. Dolphus Raymond’s cotton gin when he was a boy… 
like to bled to death… tore all the muscles loose from his bones—
Is this the man who raped you?
It most certainly is.
How?
I don’t know how he done it, but he done it—I said it all 
happened so fast I—
Now let’s consider this calmly—
Oh sit down, Horace, he’s doing nothing of the 
sort. If anything, the witness’s browbeating Atticus.
Now,
Miss Mayella, you’ve testified that the defendant choked 
and beat you—you didn’t say that he sneaked up behind you and knocked you 
cold, but you turned around and there he was—
—do you wish 
to reconsider any of your testimony?
You want me to say something that didn’t happen?
No ma’am, I want you to say something that did happen. Tell us once more, 
please, what happened?
I told’ja what happened.
You testified that you turned around and there he was. He choked you then?
Yes.
Then he released your throat and hit you?
I said he did.
He blacked your left eye with his right fist?
I ducked and it—it glanced, that’s what it did. I ducked and it glanced off.
You’re becoming suddenly clear on this point. A while ago you couldn’t 
remember too well, could you?
I said he hit me.
All right. He choked you, he hit you, then he raped you, that right?
It most certainly is.
You’re a strong girl, what were you doing all the time, just standing there?
I told’ja I hollered’n‘kicked’n’fought—
One question at a time, 
Atticus. Give the witness a chance to answer.
All right, why didn’t you run?
I tried…
Tried to? What kept you from it?
I—he slung me down. That’s what he did, he slung me down’n got on top of 
me.
You were screaming all this time?
I certainly was.
Then why didn’t the other children hear you? Where were they? At the dump?
Where were they?
Why didn’t your screams make them come running? The dump’s closer than the 
woods, isn’t it?
Or didn’t you scream until you saw your father in the window? You didn’t think 
to scream until then, did you?
Did you scream first at your father instead of at Tom Robinson? Was that it?
Who beat you up? Tom Robinson or your father?
What did your father see in the window, the crime of rape or the best defense to 
it? Why don’t you tell the truth, child, didn’t Bob Ewell beat you up?
I got somethin‘ to say,
Do you want to tell us what happened?
I got somethin‘ to say an’ 
then I ain’t gonna say no more. That nigger yonder took advantage of me an‘ if 
you fine fancy gentlemen don’t wanta do nothin’ about it then you’re all yellow 
stinkin‘ cowards, stinkin’ cowards, the lot of you. Your fancy airs don’t come to 
nothin‘—your ma’amin’ and Miss Mayellerin‘ don’t come to nothin’, Mr. Finch
 —
It’s 
time we all did. We’ll take ten minutes.
Jem,
Mr. Underwood’s seen us.
That’s okay. He won’t tell Atticus, he’ll just put it on the social side of the 
Tribune.
We come down 
sometimes to watch him,
It’s gonna take him the rest of the 
afternoon, now. You watch.
Fhluck!
Bet he was hell 
with a spitball,
It’s 
gettin‘ on to four,
Shall we try to wind up this afternoon?
How ‘bout it, 
Atticus?
I think we can,
How many witnesses you got?
One.
Well, call him.
That’ll do, Tom.
It must have been disorderly,
What did it consist of?
Got in a fight with another man, he tried to cut me.
Did he succeed?
Yes suh, a little, not enough to hurt. You see, I—
Yes,
You were both convicted?
Yes suh, I had to serve ‘cause I couldn’t pay the fine. Other fellow paid his’n.
Were you acquainted with Mayella Violet Ewell?
Yes suh, I had to pass her place goin‘ to and from the field every day.
Whose field?
I picks for Mr. Link Deas.
Were you picking cotton in November?
No suh, I works in his yard fall an‘ wintertime. I works pretty steady for him all 
year round, he’s got a lot of pecan trees’n things.
You say you had to pass the Ewell place to get to and from work. Is there any 
other way to go?
No suh, none’s I know of.
Tom, did she ever speak to you?
Why, yes suh, I’d tip m’hat when I’d go by, and one day she asked me to come 
inside the fence and bust up a chiffarobe for her.
When did she ask you to chop up the—the chiffarobe?
Mr. Finch, it was way last spring. I remember it because it was choppin‘ time 
and I had my hoe with me. I said I didn’t have nothin’ but this hoe, but she said 
she had a hatchet. She give me the hatchet and I broke up the chiffarobe. She said, 
‘I reckon I’ll hafta give you a nickel, won’t I?’ an‘ I said, ’No ma’am, there ain’t 
no charge.‘ Then I went home. Mr. Finch, that was way last spring, way over a 
year ago.
Did you ever go on the place again?
Yes suh.
When?
Well, I went lots of times.
Under what circumstances?
Please, suh?
Why did you go inside the fence lots of times?
She’d call me in, suh. Seemed like every time 
I passed by yonder she’d have some little somethin‘ for me to do—choppin’ 
kindlin‘, totin’ water for her. She watered them red flowers every day—
Were you paid for your services?
No suh, not after she offered me a nickel the first time. I was glad to do it, Mr. 
Ewell didn’t seem to help her none, and neither did the chillun, and I knowed she 
didn’t have no nickels to spare.
Where were the other children?
They was always around, all over the place. They’d watch me work, some of 
‘em, some of ’em’d set in the window.
Would Miss Mayella talk to you?
Yes sir, she talked to me.
That’s just their way,
Did you ever,
at any time, go on the Ewell 
property—did you ever set foot on the Ewell property without an express 
invitation from one of them?
No suh, Mr. Finch, I never did. I wouldn’t do that, suh.
Tom, what happened to you on the evening of November twenty-first of last 
year?
Mr. Finch,
I was goin‘ home as usual that evenin’, an‘ when I passed 
the Ewell place Miss Mayella were on the porch, like she said she were. It seemed 
real quiet like, an’ I didn’t quite know why. I was studyin‘ why, just passin’ by, 
when she says for me to come there and help her a minute. Well, I went inside the 
fence an‘ looked around for some kindlin’ to work on, but I didn’t see none, and 
she says, ‘Naw, I got somethin’ for you to do in the house. Th‘ old door’s off its 
hinges an’ fall’s comin‘ on pretty fast.’ I said you got a screwdriver, Miss 
Mayella? She said she sho‘ had. Well, I went up the steps an’ she motioned me to 
come inside, and I went in the front room an‘ looked at the door. I said Miss 
Mayella, this door look all right. I pulled it back’n forth and those hinges was all 
right. Then she shet the door in my face. Mr. Finch, I was wonderin’ why it was 
so quiet like, an‘ it come to me that there weren’t a chile on the place, not a one of 
’em, and I said Miss Mayella, where the chillun?
I say where the chillun?
an‘ she says—she was laughin’, sort of
 —she says they all gone to town to get ice creams. She says, ‘took me a slap year 
to save seb’m nickels, but I done it. They all gone to town.’
What did you say then, Tom?
I said somethin‘ like, why Miss Mayella, that’s right smart o’you to treat ’em. 
An‘ she said, ’You think so?‘ I don’t think she understood what I was thinkin’—I 
meant it was smart of her to save like that, an‘ nice of her to treat em.
I understand you, Tom. Go on,
Well, I said I best be goin‘, I couldn’t do nothin’ for her, an‘ she says oh yes I 
could, an’ I ask her what, and she says to just step on that chair yonder an‘ git that 
box down from on top of the chiffarobe.
Not the same chiffarobe you busted up?
Naw suh, another one. Most as tall as the room. So I done 
what she told me, an‘ I was just reachin’ when the next thing I knows she—she’d 
grabbed me round the legs, grabbed me round th‘ legs, Mr. Finch. She scared me 
so bad I hopped down an’ turned the chair over—that was the only thing, only 
furniture, ‘sturbed in that room, Mr. Finch, when I left it. I swear ’fore God.
What happened after you turned the chair over?
Tom, you’re sworn to tell the whole truth. Will you tell it?
What happened after that?
Answer the question,
Mr. Finch, I got down offa that chair an‘ turned around an’ she sorta jumped on 
me.
Jumped on you? Violently?
No suh, she—she hugged me. She hugged me round the waist.
Then what did she do?
She reached up an‘ kissed me ’side of th‘ face. She 
says she never kissed a grown man before an’ she might as well kiss a nigger. She 
says what her papa do to her don’t count. She says, ‘Kiss me back, nigger.’ I say 
Miss Mayella lemme outa here an‘ tried to run but she got her back to the door 
an’ I’da had to push her. I didn’t wanta harm her, Mr. Finch, an‘ I say lemme 
pass, but just when I say it Mr. Ewell yonder hollered through th’ window.
What did he say?
Somethin‘ not fittin’ to 
say—not fittin‘ for these folks’n chillun to hear—
What did he say, Tom? You must tell the jury what he said.
He says you goddamn whore, I’ll kill ya.
Then what happened?
Mr. Finch, I was runnin‘ so fast I didn’t know what happened.
Tom, did you rape Mayella Ewell?
I did not, suh.
Did you harm her in any way?
I did not, suh.
Did you resist her advances?
Mr. Finch, I tried. I tried to ‘thout bein’ ugly to her. I didn’t wanta be ugly, I 
didn’t wanta push her or nothin‘.
Tom, go back once more to Mr. Ewell,
Did he say anything to 
you?
Not anything, suh. He mighta said somethin‘, but I weren’t there—
That’ll do,
What you did hear, who was he talking to?
Mr. Finch, he were talkin‘ and lookin’ at Miss Mayella.
Then you ran?
I sho‘ did, suh.
Why did you run?
I was scared, suh.
Why were you scared?
Mr. Finch, if you was a nigger like me, you’d be scared, too.
I just want the whole lot of you to know one thing right now. That boy’s worked 
for me eight years an‘ I ain’t had a speck o’trouble outa him. Not a speck.
Shut your mouth, sir!
Link 
Deas,
if you have anything you want to say you can say it under oath 
and at the proper time, but until then you get out of this room, you hear me? Get 
out of this room, sir, you hear me? I’ll be damned if I’ll listen to this case again!
It ain’t like one of the jurymen got up and started talking,
I think 
it’d be different then. Mr. Link was just disturbin‘ the peace or something.
Go ahead, Mr. Gilmer.
You were given thirty days once for disorderly conduct, Robinson?
Yes suh.
What’d the nigger look like when you got through with him?
He beat me, Mr. Gilmer.
Yes, but you were convicted, weren’t you?
It was a misdemeanor and it’s in the record, Judge.
Witness’ll answer, though,
Yes suh, I got thirty days.
Robinson, you’re pretty good at busting up chiffarobes and kindling with one 
hand, aren’t you?
Yes, suh, I reckon so.
Strong enough to choke the breath out of a woman and sling her to the floor?
I never done that, suh.
But you are strong enough to?
I reckon so, suh.
Had your eye on her a long time, hadn’t you, boy?
No suh, I never looked at her.
Then you were mighty polite to do all that chopping and hauling for her, weren’t 
you, boy?
I was just tryin‘ to help her out, suh.
That was mighty generous of you, you had chores at home after your regular 
work, didn’t you?
Yes suh.
Why didn’t you do them instead of Miss Ewell’s?
I done ‘em both, suh.
You must have been pretty busy. Why?
Why what, suh?
Why were you so anxious to do that woman’s chores?
Looked like she didn’t have 
nobody to help her, like I says—
With Mr. Ewell and seven children on the place, boy?
Well, I says it looked like they never help her none—
You did all this chopping and work from sheer goodness, boy?
Tried to help her, I says.
You’re a mighty good fellow, it seems—
 did all this for not one penny?
Yes, suh. I felt right sorry for her, she seemed to try more’n the rest of ‘em—
You felt sorry for her, you felt sorry for he?
Now you went by the house as usual, last November twenty-first,
and 
she asked you to come in and bust up a chiffarobe?
No suh.
Do you deny that you went by the house?
No suh—she said she had somethin‘ for me to do inside the house—
She says she asked you to bust up a chiffarobe, is that right?
No suh, it ain’t.
Then you say she’s lying, boy?
I don’t say she’s 
lyin‘, Mr. Gilmer, I say she’s mistaken in her mind.
Didn’t Mr. Ewell run you off the place, boy?
No suh, I don’t think he did.
Don’t think, what do you mean?
I mean I didn’t stay long enough for him to run me off.
You’re very candid about this, why did you run so fast?
I says I was scared, suh.
If you had a clear conscience, why were you scared?
Like I says before, it weren’t safe for any nigger to be in a—fix like that.
But you weren’t in a fix—you testified that you were resisting Miss Ewell. Were 
you so scared that she’d hurt you, you ran, a big buck like you?
No suh, I’s scared I’d be in court, just like I am now.
Scared of arrest, scared you’d have to face up to what you did?
No suh, scared I’d hafta face up to what I didn’t do.
Are you being impudent to me, boy?
No suh, I didn’t go to be.
Ain’t you feeling good?
Anything happenin‘, Scout?
No sir,
Dill here, he’s sick.
Come on out under the trees,
Heat got you, I expect.
It was just him I couldn’t stand,
Who, Tom?
That old Mr. Gilmer doin‘ him thataway, talking so hateful to him—
Dill, that’s his job. Why, if we didn’t have prosecutors—well, we couldn’t have 
defense attorneys, I reckon.
I know all that, Scout. It was the way he said it made me 
sick, plain sick.
He’s supposed to act that way, Dill, he was cross—
He didn’t act that way when—
Dill, those were his own witnesses.
Well, Mr. Finch didn’t act that way to Mayella and old man Ewell when he cross
examined them. The way that man called him ‘boy’ all the time an‘ sneered at 
him, an’ looked around at the jury every time he answered—
Well, Dill, after all he’s just a Negro.
I don’t care one speck. It ain’t right, somehow it ain’t right to do ‘em that way. 
Hasn’t anybody got any business talkin’ like that—it just makes me sick.
That’s just Mr. Gilmer’s way, Dill, he does ‘em all that way. You’ve never seen 
him get good’n down on one yet. Why, when—well, today Mr. Gilmer seemed to 
me like he wasn’t half trying. They do ’em all that way, most lawyers, I mean.
Mr. Finch doesn’t.
He’s not an example, Dill, he’s—
He’s the same in the 
courtroom as he is on the public streets.
That’s not what I mean,
I know what you mean, boy,
You aren’t thin-hided, it just makes you sick, doesn’t it?
Come on round here, son, I got something that’ll settle your stomach.
Here,
Take a good sip, 
it’ll quieten you.
Hee hee,
Dill, you watch out, now,
Scout, it’s nothing but Coca-Cola.
You 
little folks won’t tell on me now, will you? It’d ruin my reputation if you did.
You mean all you drink in that sack’s Coca-Cola? Just plain Coca-Cola?
Yes ma’am,
That’s all I 
drink, most of the time.
Then you just pretend you’re half—? I beg your pardon, sir,
I 
didn’t mean to be—
Why do you do like you do?
Wh—oh yes, you mean why do I pretend? Well, it’s very simple,
Some folks don’t—like the way I live. Now I could say the hell with ‘em, I don’t 
care if they don’t like it. I do say I don’t care if they don’t like it, right enough—
 but I don’t say the hell with ’em, see?
No sir.
I try to give ‘em a reason, you see. It helps folks if they can latch onto a reason. 
When I come to town, which is seldom, if I weave a little and drink out of this 
sack, folks can say Dolphus Raymond’s in the clutches of whiskey—that’s why 
he won’t change his ways. He can’t help himself, that’s why he lives the way he 
does.
That ain’t honest, Mr. Raymond, making yourself out badder’n you are already
 —
It ain’t honest but it’s mighty helpful to folks. Secretly, Miss Finch, I’m not 
much of a drinker, but you see they could never, never understand that I live like I 
do because that’s the way I want to live.
Because you’re children and you can understand it,
and because I 
heard that one—
Things haven’t caught up with that one’s instinct yet. 
Let him get a little older and he won’t get sick and cry. Maybe things’ll strike him 
as being—not quite right, say, but he won’t cry, not when he gets a few years on 
him.
Cry about what, Mr. Raymond?
Cry about the simple hell people give other people—without even thinking. Cry 
about the hell white people give colored folks, without even stopping to think that 
they’re people, too.
Atticus says cheatin‘ a colored man is ten times worse than cheatin’ a white 
man,
Says it’s the worst thing you can do.
I don’t reckon it’s—Miss Jean Louise, you don’t know your 
pa’s not a run-of-the-mill man, it’ll take a few years for that to sink in—you 
haven’t seen enough of the world yet. You haven’t even seen this town, but all 
you gotta do is step back inside the courthouse.
C’mon, Dill,
You all right, now?
Yeah. Glad t’ve metcha, Mr. Raymond, and thanks for the drink, it was mighty 
settlin‘.
Shoot,
we missed it.
…absence of any corroborative evidence, this man was indicted on a capital 
charge and is now on trial for his life…
How long’s he been at it?
He’s just gone over the evidence,
and we’re gonna win, Scout. 
I don’t see how we can’t. He’s been at it ‘bout five minutes. He made it as plain 
and easy as—well, as I’da explained it to you. You could’ve understood it, even.
Did Mr. Gilmer—?
Sh-h. Nothing new, just the usual. Hush now.
With the court’s 
permission—
Gentlemen,
Scout.
Gentlemen,
I shall be brief, but I would like to use my 
remaining time with you to remind you that this case is not a difficult one, it 
requires no minute sifting of complicated facts, but it does require you to be sure 
beyond all reasonable doubt as to the guilt of the defendant. To begin with, this 
case should never have come to trial. This case is as simple as black and white.
 “The state has not produced one iota of medical evidence to the effect that the 
crime Tom Robinson is charged with ever took place. It has relied instead upon 
the testimony of two witnesses whose evidence has not only been called into 
serious question on cross-examination, but has been flatly contradicted by the 
defendant. The defendant is not guilty, but somebody in this courtroom is.
 “I have nothing but pity in my heart for the chief witness for the state, but my pity 
does not extend so far as to her putting a man’s life at stake, which she has done 
in an effort to get rid of her own guilt.
 “I say guilt, gentlemen, because it was guilt that motivated her. She has 
committed no crime, she has merely broken a rigid and time-honored code of our 
society, a code so severe that whoever breaks it is hounded from our midst as 
unfit to live with. She is the victim of cruel poverty and ignorance, but I cannot 
pity her: she is white. She knew full well the enormity of her offense, but because 
her desires were stronger than the code she was breaking, she persisted in 
breaking it. She persisted, and her subsequent reaction is something that all of us 
have known at one time or another. She did something every child has done—she 
tried to put the evidence of her offense away from her. But in this case she was no 
child hiding stolen contraband: she struck out at her victim—of necessity she 
must put him away from her—he must be removed from her presence, from this 
world. She must destroy the evidence of her offense.
 “What was the evidence of her offense? Tom Robinson, a human being. She must 
put Tom Robinson away from her. Tom Robinson was her daily reminder of what 
she did. What did she do? She tempted a Negro.
 “She was white, and she tempted a Negro. She did something that in our society is 
unspeakable: she kissed a black man. Not an old Uncle, but a strong young Negro 
man. No code mattered to her before she broke it, but it came crashing down on 
her afterwards.
“Her father saw it, and the defendant has testified as to his remarks. What did her 
father do? We don’t know, but there is circumstantial evidence to indicate that 
Mayella Ewell was beaten savagely by someone who led almost exclusively with 
his left. We do know in part what Mr. Ewell did: he did what any God-fearing, 
persevering, respectable white man would do under the circumstances—he swore 
out a warrant, no doubt signing it with his left hand, and Tom Robinson now sits 
before you, having taken the oath with the only good hand he possesses—his right 
hand.
 “And so a quiet, respectable, humble Negro who had the unmitigated temerity to 
‘feel sorry’ for a white woman has had to put his word against two white 
people’s. I need not remind you of their appearance and conduct on the stand—
 you saw them for yourselves. The witnesses for the state, with the exception of 
the sheriff of Maycomb County, have presented themselves to you gentlemen, to 
this court, in the cynical confidence that their testimony would not be doubted, 
confident that you gentlemen would go along with them on the assumption—the 
evil assumption—that all Negroes lie, that all Negroes are basically immoral 
beings, that all Negro men are not to be trusted around our women, an assumption 
one associates with minds of their caliber.
 “Which, gentlemen, we know is in itself a lie as black as Tom Robinson’s skin, a 
lie I do not have to point out to you. You know the truth, and the truth is this: 
some Negroes lie, some Negroes are immoral, some Negro men are not to be 
trusted around women—black or white. But this is a truth that applies to the 
human race and to no particular race of men. There is not a person in this 
courtroom who has never told a lie, who has never done an immoral thing, and 
there is no man living who has never looked upon a woman without desire.
first
One more thing, gentlemen, before I quit. Thomas Jefferson once said that all 
men are created equal, a phrase that the Yankees and the distaff side of the 
Executive branch in Washington are fond of hurling at us. There is a tendency in 
this year of grace, 1935, for certain people to use this phrase out of context, to 
satisfy all conditions. The most ridiculous example I can think of is that the 
people who run public education promote the stupid and idle along with the 
industrious—because all men are created equal, educators will gravely tell you, 
the children left behind suffer terrible feelings of inferiority. We know all men are 
not created equal in the sense some people would have us believe—some people 
are smarter than others, some people have more opportunity because they’re born 
with it, some men make more money than others, some ladies make better cakes 
than others—some people are born gifted beyond the normal scope of most men.
 “But there is one way in this country in which all men are created equal—there is 
one human institution that makes a pauper the equal of a Rockefeller, the stupid 
man the equal of an Einstein, and the ignorant man the equal of any college 
president. That institution, gentlemen, is a court. It can be the Supreme Court of 
the United States or the humblest J.P. court in the land, or this honorable court 
which you serve. Our courts have their faults, as does any human institution, but 
in this country our courts are the great levelers, and in our courts all men are 
created equal.
 “I’m no idealist to believe firmly in the integrity of our courts and in the jury 
system—that is no ideal to me, it is a living, working reality. Gentlemen, a court 
is no better than each man of you sitting before me on this jury. A court is only as 
sound as its jury, and a jury is only as sound as the men who make it up. I am 
confident that you gentlemen will review without passion the evidence you have 
heard, come to a decision, and restore this defendant to his family. In the name of 
God, do your duty.
What’d he say?
‘In the name of God, believe him,’ I think that’s what he said.
Looka yonder!
It’s Calpurnia, isn’t it?
Yes sir,
Could I just pass this note to Mr. Finch, please sir? It hasn’t 
got anything to do with—with the trial.
Judge, I—this note is from my sister. She says my 
children are missing, haven’t turned up since noon… I… could you—
I know where they are, Atticus.
They’re right up 
yonder in the colored balcony—been there since precisely one-eighteen P.M.
Jem, come down from there,
We’ve won, haven’t we?
I’ve no idea,
You’ve been here all afternoon? Go home 
with Calpurnia and get your supper—and stay home.
Aw, Atticus, let us come back,
Please let us hear the verdict, 
please sir.
The jury might be out and back in a minute, we don’t know—
Well, you’ve heard it all, so you might as well hear the 
rest. Tell you what, you all can come back when you’ve eaten your supper—eat 
slowly, now, you won’t miss anything important—and if the jury’s still out, you 
can wait with us. But I expect it’ll be over before you get back.
You think they’ll acquit him that fast?
—skin every one of you alive, the very idea, you 
children listenin‘ to all that! Mister Jem, don’t you know better’n to take your 
little sister to that trial? Miss Alexandra’ll absolutely have a stroke of paralysis 
when she finds out! Ain’t fittin’ for children to hear…
Mister Jem, I thought you was gettin‘ some kinda head on 
your shoulders—the very idea, she’s your little sister! The very idea, sir! You 
oughta be perfectly ashamed of yourself—ain’t you got any sense at all?
Don’t you want to hear about it, Cal?
Hush your mouth, sir! When you oughta be hangin‘ your head in shame you go 
along laughin’—
If Mr. Finch 
don’t wear you out, I will—get in that house, sir!
You all call Miss Rachel right now and tell her where you are,
She’s run distracted lookin‘ for you—you watch out she don’t ship you 
back to Meridian first thing in the mornin’.
‘shamed of 
yourselves,
Now you all eat slow,
Nobody’s moved, hardly,
They moved around some when the jury went out,
The 
menfolk down there got the womenfolk their suppers, and they fed their babies.
How long have they been out?
‘bout thirty minutes. Mr. Finch and Mr. Gilmer did some more talkin’, and Judge 
Taylor charged the jury.
How was he?
What say? Oh, he did right well. I ain’t complainin‘ one bit—he was mighty fair
minded. He sorta said if you believe this, then you’ll have to return one verdict, 
but if you believe this, you’ll have to return another one. I thought he was leanin’ 
a little to our side—
He’s not supposed to lean, Reverend, but don’t fret, we’ve won it,
Don’t see how any jury could convict on what we heard—
Now don’t you be so confident, Mr. Jem, I ain’t ever seen any jury decide in 
favor of a colored man over a white man…
Mr. Jem,
this ain’t a polite thing for little ladies to 
hear…
Aw, she doesn’t know what we’re talkin‘ about,
Scout, this is too 
old for you, ain’t it?
It most certainly is not, I know every word you’re saying.
What time is it, Reverend?
Gettin‘ on toward eight.
Ain’t it a long time?
Sure is, Scout,
Well, from the way you put it, it’d just take five minutes.
There are things you don’t understand,
Take him, Mr. 
Finch…
This court will come to order,
Guilty… guilty… guilty… 
guilty…
guilty
Miss Jean Louise?
Miss Jean Louise, stand up. Your father’s passin‘.
It ain’t right,
It ain’t right, Atticus,
No son, it’s not right.
I’m sorry, brother,
brother
Is he all right?
He’ll be so presently,
It was a little too strong for him.
I’m going to bed,
If I don’t wake up in the morning, 
don’t call me.
I didn’t think it wise in the first place to let them—
This is their home, sister,
We’ve made it this way for them, they 
might as well learn to cope with it.
But they don’t have to go to the courthouse and wallow in it—
It’s just as much Maycomb County as missionary teas.
Atticus—
You are the last person I 
thought would turn bitter over this.
I’m not bitter, just tired. I’m going to bed.
Atticus—
What, son?
How could they do it, how could they?
I don’t know, but they did it. They’ve done it before and they did it tonight and 
they’ll do it again and when they do it—seems that only children weep. Good 
night.
It’s not time to worry yet,
We’re not through yet. There’ll be an appeal, you can count on that. Gracious 
alive, Cal, what’s all this?
Tom Robinson’s daddy sent you along this chicken this morning. 
I fixed it.
You tell him I’m proud to get it—bet they don’t have chicken for breakfast at the 
White House. What are these?
Rolls,
Estelle down at the hotel sent ‘em.
You better step out here and see 
what’s in the kitchen, Mr. Finch.
Reckon Aunty’ll let me eat these 
in the diningroom?
This was all ‘round the back steps when I got here this morning. 
They—they ’preciate what you did, Mr. Finch. They—they aren’t oversteppin‘ 
themselves, are they?
Tell them I’m 
very grateful,
Tell them—tell them they must never do this again. 
Times are too hard…
I’da got her told,
but she didn’t look 
much like tellin‘ this morning. Said she was up half the night wonderin’ where I 
was, said she’da had the sheriff after me but he was at the hearing.
Dill, you’ve got to stop goin‘ off without tellin’ her,
It just 
aggravates her.
I told her till I was blue in the face where I was goin‘—
 she’s just seein’ too many snakes in the closet. Bet that woman drinks a pint for 
breakfast every morning—know she drinks two glasses full. Seen her.
Don’t talk like that, Dill,
It’s not becoming to a child. It’s
 —cynical.
I ain’t cynical, Miss Alexandra. Tellin‘ the truth’s not cynical, is it?
The way you tell it, it is.
Let’s go. You can take that runner 
with you.
I hate grown folks lookin‘ at you,
Makes you feel like you’ve done 
something.
We’ll go with you,
Hush, Stephanie.
I’ve not got all the 
morning to pass on the porch—Jem Finch, I called to find out if you and your 
colleagues can eat some cake. Got up at five to make it, so you better say yes. 
Excuse us, Stephanie. Good morning, Mr. Avery.
Don’t fret, Jem. Things are never as bad as they seem.
I simply want to tell you that there are some men in this world who were born to 
do our unpleasant jobs for us. Your father’s one of them.
Oh,
Well.
Don’t you oh well me, sir,
you are not old enough to appreciate what I said.
It’s like bein‘ a caterpillar in a cocoon, 
that’s what it is,
Like somethin’ asleep wrapped up in a warm place. I 
always thought Maycomb folks were the best folks in the world, least that’s what 
they seemed like.
We’re the safest folks in the world,
We’re so rarely called 
on to be Christians, but when we are, we’ve got men like Atticus to go for us.
Wish the rest of the county thought that.
You’d be surprised how many of us do.
Who?
Who in this town did one thing to help Tom 
Robinson, just who?
His colored friends for one thing, and people like us. People like Judge Taylor. 
People like Mr. Heck Tate. Stop eating and start thinking, Jem. Did it ever strike 
you that Judge Taylor naming Atticus to defend that boy was no accident? That 
Judge Taylor might have had his reasons for naming him?
You think about that,
It was no accident. I was sittin‘ 
there on the porch last night, waiting. I waited and waited to see you all come 
down the sidewalk, and as I waited I thought, Atticus Finch won’t win, he can’t 
win, but he’s the only man in these parts who can keep a jury out so long in a case 
like that. And I thought to myself, well, we’re making a step—it’s just a baby
step, but it’s a step.
‘t’s all right to talk like that—can’t any Christian judges an’ lawyers make up for 
heathen juries,
Soon’s I get grown—
That’s something you’ll have to take up with your father,
I think I’ll be a clown when I get grown,
Yes sir, a clown,
There ain’t one thing in this world I can do about 
folks except laugh, so I’m gonna join the circus and laugh my head off.
You got it backwards, Dill,
Clowns are sad, it’s folks that laugh at 
them.
Well I’m gonna be a new kind of clown. I’m gonna stand in the middle of the 
ring and laugh at the folks. Just looka yonder,
Every one of ‘em 
oughta be ridin’ broomsticks. Aunt Rachel already does.
Oh gosh,
I reckon it’d be ugly not to see ‘em.
You get on in the back 
yard and stay there,
There’s danger a’comin‘.
‘s matter?
Ain’t you heard yet? It’s all over town—
I wish Bob Ewell wouldn’t chew tobacco,
Too proud to fight, you nigger-lovin‘ 
bastard?
No, too old,
After all, though,
he was the deadest shot in the county one time. He 
could—
You know he wouldn’t carry a gun, Scout. He ain’t even got one—
You know he didn’t even have one down at the jail that night. He told me havin‘ 
a gun around’s an invitation to somebody to shoot you.
This is different,
We can ask him to borrow one.
Nonsense.
What’s bothering you, son?
Mr. Ewell.
What has happened?
Nothing’s happened. We’re scared for you, and we think you oughta do 
something about him.
Do what? Put him under a peace bond?
When a man says he’s gonna get you, looks like he means it.
He meant it when he said it,
Jem, see if you can stand in Bob 
Ewell’s shoes a minute. I destroyed his last shred of credibility at that trial, if he 
had any to begin with. The man had to have some kind of comeback, his kind 
always does. So if spitting in my face and threatening me saved Mayella Ewell 
one extra beating, that’s something I’ll gladly take. He had to take it out on 
somebody and I’d rather it be me than that houseful of children out there. You 
understand?
We don’t have anything 
to fear from Bob Ewell, he got it all out of his system that morning.
I wouldn’t be so sure of that, Atticus,
His kind’d do anything to pay 
off a grudge. You know how those people are.
What on earth could Ewell do to me, sister?
Something furtive,
You may count on that.
Nobody has much chance to be furtive in Maycomb,
If he loses his appeal,
what’ll happen to him?
He’ll go to the chair,
unless the Governor commutes his sentence. 
Not time to worry yet, Scout. We’ve got a good chance.
It ain’t 
right. He didn’t kill anybody even if he was guilty. He didn’t take anybody’s life.
You know rape’s a capital offense in Alabama,
Yessir, but the jury didn’t have to give him death—if they wanted to they 
could’ve gave him twenty years.
Given,
Tom Robinson’s a colored man, Jem. No jury in this part 
of the world’s going to say, ‘We think you’re guilty, but not very,’ on a charge 
like that. It was either a straight acquittal or nothing.
I know it’s not right, but I can’t figure out what’s 
wrong—maybe rape shouldn’t be a capital offense…
—I mean, before a man is sentenced to death for murder, say, there 
should be one or two eye-witnesses. Some one should be able to say, ‘Yes, I was 
there and saw him pull the trigger.’
But lots of folks have been hung—hanged—on circumstantial evidence,
I know, and lots of ‘em probably deserved it, too—but in the absence of eye
witnesses there’s always a doubt, some times only the shadow of a doubt. The law 
says ’reasonable doubt,‘ but I think a defendant’s entitled to the shadow of a 
doubt. There’s always the possibility, no matter how improbable, that he’s 
innocent.
Then it all goes back to the jury, then. We oughta do away with juries.
You’re rather hard on us, son. 
I think maybe there might be a better way. Change the law. Change it so that only 
judges have the power of fixing the penalty in capital cases.
Then go up to Montgomery and change the law.
You’d be surprised how hard that’d be. I won’t live to see the law changed, and 
if you live to see it you’ll be an old man.
No sir, they oughta do away with juries. He 
wasn’t guilty in the first place and they said he was.
If you had been on that jury, son, and eleven other boys like you, Tom would be 
a free man,
So far nothing in your life has interfered with your 
reasoning process. Those are twelve reasonable men in everyday life, Tom’s jury, 
but you saw something come between them and reason. You saw the same thing 
that night in front of the jail. When that crew went away, they didn’t go as 
reasonable men, they went because we were there. There’s something in our 
world that makes men lose their heads—they couldn’t be fair if they tried. In our 
courts, when it’s a white man’s word against a black man’s, the white man always 
wins. They’re ugly, but those are the facts of life.
Doesn’t make it right,
You just can’t convict a man on evidence like that—you can’t.
You couldn’t, but they could and did. The older you grow the more of it you’ll 
see. The one place where a man ought to get a square deal is in a courtroom, be he 
any color of the rainbow, but people have a way of carrying their resentments 
right into a jury box. As you grow older, you’ll see white men cheat black men 
every day of your life, but let me tell you something and don’t you forget it—
 whenever a white man does that to a black man, no matter who he is, how rich he 
is, or how fine a family he comes from, that white man is trash.
There’s nothing more sickening to me than a low
grade white man who’ll take advantage of a Negro’s ignorance. Don’t fool 
yourselves—it’s all adding up and one of these days we’re going to pay the bill 
for it. I hope it’s not in you children’s time.
Atticus,
why 
don’t people like us and Miss Maudie ever sit on juries? You never see anybody 
from Maycomb on a jury—they all come from out in the woods.
I was wondering when that’d occur to you,
There are lots of 
reasons. For one thing, Miss Maudie can’t serve on a jury because she’s a woman
 —
You mean women in Alabama can’t—?
I do. I guess it’s to protect our frail ladies from sordid cases like Tom’s. 
Besides,
I doubt if we’d ever get a complete case tried—the 
ladies’d be interrupting to ask questions.
Stop that rapping, John Taylor, I want to ask 
this man something.
With people like us—that’s our share of the bill. We 
generally get the juries we deserve. Our stout Maycomb citizens aren’t interested, 
in the first place. In the second place, they’re afraid. Then, they’re—
Afraid, why?
Well, what if—say, Mr. Link Deas had to decide the amount of damages to 
award, say, Miss Maudie, when Miss Rachel ran over her with a car. Link 
wouldn’t like the thought of losing either lady’s business at his store, would he? 
So he tells Judge Taylor that he can’t serve on the jury because he doesn’t have 
anybody to keep store for him while he’s gone. So Judge Taylor excuses him. 
Sometimes he excuses him wrathfully.
What’d make him think either one of ‘em’d stop trading with him?
Miss Rachel would, Miss Maudie wouldn’t. But a jury’s vote’s secret, 
Atticus.
You’ve many more miles to go, son. A jury’s vote’s 
supposed to be secret. Serving on a jury forces a man to make up his mind and 
declare himself about something. Men don’t like to do that. Sometimes it’s 
unpleasant.
Tom’s jury sho‘ made up its mind in a hurry,
No it didn’t,
That was the one thing that made me think, well, this may be the 
shadow of a beginning. That jury took a few hours. An inevitable verdict, maybe, 
but usually it takes ‘em just a few minutes. This time—
You might like to know that there was one fellow who took considerable 
wearing down—in the beginning he was rarin’ for an outright acquittal.
Who?
It’s not for me to say, but I’ll tell you this much. He was 
one of your Old Sarum friends…
One of the Cunninghams?
One of—I didn’t recognize any of 
‘em… you’re jokin’.
One of their connections. On a hunch, I didn’t strike him. Just on a hunch. 
Could’ve, but I didn’t.
Golly Moses,
One minute they’re tryin‘ to kill him and 
the next they’re tryin’ to turn him loose… I’ll never understand those folks as 
long as I live.
em. He said the Cunninghams hadn
If we’d had two of that crowd, we’d’ve had a hung jury.
You mean you actually put on the jury a man who wanted to 
kill you the night before? How could you take such a risk, Atticus, how could 
you?
When you analyze it, there was little risk. There’s no difference between one 
man who’s going to convict and another man who’s going to convict, is there? 
There’s a faint difference between a man who’s going to convict and a man who’s 
a little disturbed in his mind, isn’t there? He was the only uncertainty on the 
whole list.
What kin was that man to Mr. Walter Cunningham?
Let’s see now,
I’ve got it. Double first cousin.
How can that be?
Two sisters married two brothers. That’s all I’ll tell you—you figure it out.
Gee minetti, Jem,
they’re funny folks. ‘d you hear that, Aunty?
I heard it,
Soon’s school starts I’m 
gonna ask Walter home to dinner,
He can stay over sometimes after school, 
too. Atticus could drive him back to Old Sarum. Maybe he could spend the night 
with us sometime, okay, Jem?
We’ll see about that,
Why not, Aunty? 
They’re good folks.
Jean Louise, there is no doubt in my 
mind that they’re good folks. But they’re not our kind of folks.
She means they’re yappy, Scout.
What’s a yap?
Aw, tacky. They like fiddlin‘ and things like that.
Well I do too—
Don’t be silly, Jean Louise,
The thing is, you can scrub 
Walter Cunningham till he shines, you can put him in shoes and a new suit, but 
he’ll never be like Jem. Besides, there’s a drinking streak in that family a mile 
wide. Finch women aren’t interested in that sort of people.
Aun-ty,
she ain’t nine yet.
She may as well learn it now.
company,
If they’re good folks, 
then why can’t I be nice to Walter?
I didn’t say not to be nice to him. You should be friendly and polite to him, you 
should be gracious to everybody, dear. But you don’t have to invite him home.
What if he was kin to us, Aunty?
The fact is that he is not kin to us, but if he were, my answer would be the same.
Aunty,
Atticus says you can choose your friends but you sho‘ 
can’t choose your family, an’ they’re still kin to you no matter whether you 
acknowledge ‘em or not, and it makes you look right silly when you don’t.
That’s your father all over again,
and I still say that Jean 
Louise will not invite Walter Cunningham to this house. If he were her double 
first cousin once removed he would still not be received in this house unless he 
comes to see Atticus on business. Now that is that.
But I want to 
play with Walter, Aunty, why can’t I?
I’ll tell you why,
Because—
 he—is—trash, that’s why you can’t play with him. I’ll not have you around him, 
picking up his habits and learning Lord-knows-what. You’re enough of a problem 
to your father as it is.
‘s all right, sir,
’s not anything.
Have a chew, Scout.
Show you something if you won’t tell anybody.
Well what?
Well can’t you see it?
Well no.
Well it’s hair.
Where?
There. Right there.
It’s real nice, Jem.
Under my arms, too,
Goin‘ out for football next year. Scout, don’t let 
Aunty aggravate you.
You know she’s not used to girls,
leastways, not girls like you. She’s 
trying to make you a lady. Can’t you take up sewin‘ or somethin’?
Hell no. She doesn’t like me, that’s all there is to it, and I don’t care. It was her 
callin‘ Walter Cunningham trash that got me goin’, Jem, not what she said about 
being a problem to Atticus. We got that all straight one time, I asked him if I was 
a problem and he said not much of one, at most one that he could always figure 
out, and not to worry my head a second about botherin‘ him. Naw, it was Walter—
that boy’s not trash, Jem. He ain’t like the Ewells.
You know something, Scout? 
I’ve got it all figured out, now. I’ve thought about it a lot lately and I’ve got it 
figured out. There’s four kinds of folks in the world. There’s the ordinary kind 
like us and the neighbors, there’s the kind like the Cunninghams out in the woods, 
the kind like the Ewells down at the dump, and the Negroes.
What about the Chinese, and the Cajuns down yonder in Baldwin County?
I mean in Maycomb County. The thing about it is, our kind of folks don’t like 
the Cunninghams, the Cunninghams don’t like the Ewells, and the Ewells hate 
and despise the colored folks.

 Jem waved my question away as being infantile.
 “You know,
I’ve seen Atticus pat his foot when there’s fiddlin‘ on the 
radio, and he loves pot liquor better’n any man I ever saw—
Then that makes us like the Cunninghams,
I can’t see why Aunty—
No, lemme finish—it does, but we’re still different somehow. Atticus said one 
time the reason Aunty’s so hipped on the family is because all we’ve got’s 
background and not a dime to our names.
Well Jem, I don’t know—Atticus told me one time that most of this Old Family 
stuff’s foolishness because everybody’s family’s just as old as everybody else’s. I 
said did that include the colored folks and Englishmen and he said yes.
Background doesn’t mean Old Family,
I think it’s how long your 
family’s been readin‘ and writin’. Scout, I’ve studied this real hard and that’s the 
only reason I can think of. Somewhere along when the Finches were in Egypt one 
of ‘em must have learned a hieroglyphic or two and he taught his boy.
Imagine Aunty being proud her great-grandaddy could read an’ write—
 ladies pick funny things to be proud of.
Well I’m glad he could, or who’da taught Atticus and them, and if Atticus 
couldn’t read, you and me’d be in a fix. I don’t think that’s what background is, 
Jem.
Well then, how do you explain why the Cunninghams are different? Mr. Walter 
can hardly sign his name, I’ve seen him. We’ve just been readin‘ and writin’ 
longer’n they have.
No, everybody’s gotta learn, nobody’s born knowin‘. That Walter’s as smart as 
he can be, he just gets held back sometimes because he has to stay out and help 
his daddy. Nothin’s wrong with him. Naw, Jem, I think there’s just one kind of 
folks. Folks.
That’s what I thought, too,
when I was your age. If there’s just 
one kind of folks, why can’t they get along with each other? If they’re all alike, 
why do they go out of their way to despise each other? Scout, I think I’m 
beginning to understand something. I think I’m beginning to understand why Boo 
Radley’s stayed shut up in the house all this time… it’s because he wants to stay 
inside.
Can I help you, Cal?
You be still as a mouse in that corner,
an‘ you can help me load up the trays when I come back.
Why, 
Alexandra, I never saw such charlotte… just lovely… I never can get my crust 
like this, never can… who’d‘ve thought of little dewberry tarts… Calpurnia?… 
who’da thought it… anybody tell you that the preacher’s wife’s… nooo, well she 
is, and that other one not walkin’ yet…
This coffee pitcher’s a curiosity,
they don’t make ‘em these days.
Can I carry it in?
If you be careful and don’t drop it. Set it down at the end of the table by Miss 
Alexandra. Down there by the cups’n things. She’s gonna pour.
Careful now, it’s heavy. Don’t 
look at it and you won’t spill it.
Stay with us, 
Jean Louise,
spoiled.
You’re mighty dressed up, Miss Jean 
Louise,
Where are your britches today?
Under my dress.
Whatcha going to be when you grow up, Jean Louise? A lawyer?
Nome, I hadn’t thought about it…
Well…
Why shoot, I thought you wanted to be a lawyer, you’ve already commenced 
going to court.
That Stephanie’s a card,
Don’t you want to grow up to 
be a lawyer?
Nome, just a 
lady.
Well, you won’t get very far until you start wearing 
dresses more often.
Amazing Grace, how sweet the sound, that saved a wretch 
like me…
What did you all study this afternoon?
Oh child, those poor Mrunas,
Living in that jungle with nobody but J. Grimes 
Everett,
Not a white person’ll go near ‘em but that saintly J. Grimes 
Everett.
The poverty… the darkness… the immorality—nobody but J. 
Grimes Everett knows. You know, when the church gave me that trip to the camp 
grounds J. Grimes Everett said to me—
Was he there, ma’am? I thought—
Home on leave. J. Grimes Everett said to me, he said, ‘Mrs. Merriweather, you 
have no conception, no conception of what we are fighting over there.’ That’s 
what he said to me.
Yes ma’am.
I said to him, ‘Mr. Everett,’ I said, ‘the ladies of the Maycomb Alabama 
Methodist Episcopal Church South are behind you one hundred percent.’ That’s 
what I said to him. And you know, right then and there I made a pledge in my 
heart. I said to myself, when I go home I’m going to give a course on the Mrunas 
and bring J. Grimes Everett’s message to Maycomb and that’s just what I’m 
doing.
Yes ma’am.
Jean Louise,
you are a fortunate girl. You live in a Christian home with Christian 
folks in a Christian town. Out there in J. Grimes Everett’s land there’s nothing but 
sin and squalor.
Yes ma’am.
Sin and squalor—what was that, Gertrude?
Oh that. Well, I always say forgive and 
forget, forgive and forget. Thing that church ought to do is help her lead a 
Christian life for those children from here on out. Some of the men ought to go 
out there and tell that preacher to encourage her.
Excuse me, Mrs. Merriweather,
are you all talking about Mayella 
Ewell?
May—? No, child. That darky’s wife. Tom’s wife, Tom—
Robinson, ma’am.
There’s one thing I truly believe, 
Gertrude,
but some people just don’t see it my way. If we just let 
them know we forgive ‘em, that we’ve forgotten it, then this whole thing’ll blow 
over.
Ah—Mrs. Merriweather,
what’ll blow over?
Nothing, Jean Louise,
the cooks and field hands are 
just dissatisfied, but they’re settling down now—they grumbled all next day after 
that trial.
Gertrude, I tell you there’s nothing more 
distracting than a sulky darky. Their mouths go down to here. Just ruins your day 
to have one of ‘em in the kitchen. You know what I said to my Sophy, Gertrude? I 
said, ’Sophy,‘ I said, ’you simply are not being a Christian today. Jesus Christ 
never went around grumbling and complaining,‘ and you know, it did her good. 
She took her eyes off that floor and said, ’Nome, Miz Merriweather, Jesus never 
went around grumblin‘.’ I tell you, Gertrude, you never ought to let an 
opportunity go by to witness for the Lord.
S-s-s Grace,
it’s just like I was telling Brother Hutson the other day. 
‘S-s-s Brother Hutson,’ I said, ‘looks like we’re fighting a losing battle, a losing 
battle.’ I said, ‘S-s-s it doesn’t matter to ’em one bit. We can educate ‘em till 
we’re blue in the face, we can try till we drop to make Christians out of ’em, but 
there’s no lady safe in her bed these nights.‘ He said to me, ’Mrs. Farrow, I don’t 
know what we’re coming to down here.‘ S-s-s I told him that was certainly a fact.
Gertrude,
I tell you there are some good but misguided people in this town. Good, but 
misguided. Folks in this town who think they’re doing right, I mean. Now far be it 
from me to say who, but some of ‘em in this town thought they were doing the 
right thing a while back, but all they did was stir ’em up. That’s all they did. 
Might’ve looked like the right thing to do at the time, I’m sure I don’t know, I’m 
not read in that field, but sulky… dissatisfied… I tell you if my Sophy’d kept it up 
another day I’d have let her go. It’s never entered that wool of hers that the only 
reason I keep her is because this depression’s on and she needs her dollar and a 
quarter every week she can get it.
His food doesn’t stick going down, does it?
Maudie, I’m sure I don’t know what you mean,
I’m sure you do,
Hypocrites, Mrs. Perkins, born hypocrites,
At 
least we don’t have that sin on our shoulders down here. People up there set ‘em 
free, but you don’t see ’em settin‘ at the table with ’em. At least we don’t have the 
deceit to say to ‘em yes you’re as good as we are but stay away from us. Down 
here we just say you live your way and we’ll live ours. I think that woman, that 
Mrs. Roosevelt’s lost her mind—just plain lost her mind coming down to 
Birmingham and tryin’ to sit with ‘em. If I was the Mayor of Birmingham I’d—
Good-bye, Mr. 
Finch, there ain’t nothin‘ you can do now, so there ain’t no use tryin’.
Because you ain’t 
familiar with the law. First thing you learn when you’re in a lawin‘ family is that 
there ain’t any definite answers to anything. Mr. Finch couldn’t say somethin’s so 
when he doesn’t know for sure it’s so.
Excuse me, ladies,
Go right ahead with your meeting, don’t let me 
disturb you. Alexandra, could you come to the kitchen a minute? I want to borrow 
Calpurnia for a while.
Cal,
I want you to go with me out to Helen Robinson’s house—
What’s the matter?
Tom’s dead.
They shot him,
He was running. It was during their exercise 
period. They said he just broke into a blind raving charge at the fence and started 
climbing over. Right in front of them—
Didn’t they try to stop him? Didn’t they give him any warning?
Oh yes, the guards called to him to stop. They fired a few shots in the air, then to 
kill. They got him just as he went over the fence. They said if he’d had two good 
arms he’d have made it, he was moving that fast. Seventeen bullet holes in him. 
They didn’t have to shoot him that much. Cal, I want you to come out with me 
and help me tell Helen.
Yes sir,
This is the last straw, Atticus,
Depends on how you look at it,
What was one Negro, more or less, 
among two hundred of ‘em? He wasn’t Tom to them, he was an escaping 
prisoner.
We had such a good chance,
I told him what I thought, but I couldn’t 
in truth say that we had more than a good chance. I guess Tom was tired of white 
men’s chances and preferred to take his own. Ready, Cal?
Yessir, Mr. Finch.
Then let’s go.
I can’t say I approve of everything he does, Maudie, but he’s my brother, and I 
just want to know when this will ever end.
It tears him to 
pieces. He doesn’t show it much, but it tears him to pieces. I’ve seen him when—
 what else do they want from him, Maudie, what else?
What does who want, Alexandra?
I mean this town. They’re perfectly willing to let him do what they’re too afraid 
to do themselves—it might lose ‘em a nickel. They’re perfectly willing to let him 
wreck his health doing what they’re afraid to do, they’re—
Be quiet, they’ll hear you,
Have you ever thought of it this 
way, Alexandra? Whether Maycomb knows it or not, we’re paying the highest 
tribute we can pay a man. We trust him to do right. It’s that simple.
Who?
The handful of people in this town who say that fair play is not marked White 
Only; the handful of people who say a fair trial is for everybody, not just us; the 
handful of people with enough humility to think, when they look at a Negro, there 
but for the Lord’s kindness am l.
The handful of people in this town with background, that’s who they are.
Stop that shaking,
Get up, 
Alexandra, we’ve left ‘em long enough.
Do I show it?
Not a sign,
Are you together again, Jean Louise?
Yes ma’am.
Then let’s join the ladies,
Oh, Mrs. Perkins,
you need some more coffee. Let me get it.
Calpurnia’s on an errand for a few minutes, Grace,
Let me 
pass you some more of those dewberry tarts. ‘dyou hear what that cousin of mine 
did the other day, the one who likes to go fishing?…
Yes sir, Mrs. Perkins, that J. Grimes Everett is a martyred saint, he… needed to 
get married so they ran… to the beauty parlor every Saturday afternoon… soon as 
the sun goes down. He goes to bed with the… chickens, a crate full of sick 
chickens, Fred says that’s what started it all. Fred says…
Don’t do that, Scout. Set him out on the back steps.
Jem, are you crazy?…
I said set him out on the back steps.
Why couldn’t I mash him?
Because they don’t bother you,
Reckon you’re at the stage now where you don’t kill flies and mosquitoes now, I 
reckon,
Lemme know when you change your mind. Tell you one thing, 
though, I ain’t gonna sit around and not scratch a redbug.
Aw dry up,
You’d better catch a ride back. I won’t be going home for a while.
All right, you 
can come with us if you stay in the car.
Where’s your mother, Sam?
She down at Sis Stevens’s, Mr. Finch. Want me run fetch her?
Go 
on with your game, boys,
‘evenin’, Mr. Finch, won’t you have a seat?
Scout,
she just fell down in the dirt. Just fell down in the dirt, like a 
giant with a big foot just came along and stepped on her. Just ump—
Like you’d step on an ant.
Did you hear 
about?… No? Well, they say he was runnin‘ fit to beat lightnin’…
em.
 A few more details, enabling the listener to repeat his version in turn, then 
nothing to talk about until The Maycomb Tribune appeared the following 
Thursday. There was a brief obituary in the Colored News, but there was also an 
editorial.
 Mr. B. B. Underwood was at his most bitter, and he couldn
Oh foot, he’s old enough to listen.
Hidy do, Mr. Arthur,
Evening, Jean Louise,
right pretty spell we’re having, isn’t it?
Yes sir, 
right pretty,
You aren’t starting that again, are you?
If you are, 
I’ll tell you right now: stop it. I’m too old to go chasing you off the Radley 
property. Besides, it’s dangerous. You might get shot. You know Mr. Nathan 
shoots at every shadow he sees, even shadows that leave size-four bare footprints. 
You were lucky not to be killed.
Charles, that is 
not a current event. That is an advertisement.
Old Hitler—
Adolf Hitler, Cecil,
One never begins with Old anybody.
Yes ma’am,
Old Adolf Hitler has been prosecutin‘ the—
Persecuting Cecil…
Nome, Miss Gates, it says here—well anyway, old Adolf Hitler has been after 
the Jews and he’s puttin‘ ’em in prisons and he’s taking away all their property 
and he won’t let any of ‘em out of the country and he’s washin’ all the feeble
minded and—
Washing the feeble-minded?
Yes ma’am, Miss Gates, I reckon they don’t have sense enough to wash 
themselves, I don’t reckon an idiot could keep hisself clean. Well anyway, 
Hitler’s started a program to round up all the half-Jews too and he wants to 
register ‘em in case they might wanta cause him any trouble and I think this is a 
bad thing and that’s my current event.
Very good, Cecil,
How can he do that?
Who do what?
I mean how can Hitler just put a lot of folks in a pen like that, looks like the 
govamint’d stop him,
Hitler is the government,
Democracy,
Does anybody have a definition?
Us,
What do you think it means, Jean Louise?
‘Equal rights for all, special privileges for none,’
Very good, Jean Louise, very good,
Now class, say it all together, ‘We are 
a democracy.’
That’s the difference between America and 
Germany. We are a democracy and Germany is a dictatorship. Dictator-ship,
Over here we don’t believe in persecuting anybody. Persecution comes 
from people who are prejudiced. Prejudice,
There are 
no better people in the world than the Jews, and why Hitler doesn’t think so is a 
mystery to me.
Why don’t they like the Jews, 
you reckon, Miss Gates?
I don’t know, Henry. They contribute to every society they live in, and most of 
all, they are a deeply religious people. Hitler’s trying to do away with religion, so 
maybe he doesn’t like them for that reason.
Well I don’t know for certain,
they’re supposed to 
change money or somethin‘, but that ain’t no cause to persecute ’em. They’re 
white, ain’t they?
When you get to high school, Cecil, you’ll learn that the Jews 
have been persecuted since the beginning of history, even driven out of their own 
country. It’s one of the most terrible stories in history. Time for arithmetic, 
children.
Hmp!
Because he’s a maniac.
But it’s okay to hate Hitler?
It is not,
It’s not okay to hate anybody.
Atticus,
there’s somethin‘ I don’t understand. Miss Gates said it was 
awful, Hitler doin’ like he does, she got real red in the face about it—
I should think she would.
But—
Yes?
Nothing, sir.
Whatcha stuffin‘ 
for?
Coach says if I can gain twenty-five pounds by year after next I can play,
This is the quickest way.
If you don’t throw it all up. Jem,
I wanta ask you somethin‘.
Shoot.
Miss Gates is a nice lady, ain’t she?
Why sure,
I liked her when I was in her room.
She hates Hitler a lot…
What’s wrong with that?
Well, she went on today about how bad it was him treatin‘ the Jews like that. 
Jem, it’s not right to persecute anybody, is it? I mean have mean thoughts about 
anybody, even, is it?
Gracious no, Scout. What’s eatin‘ you?
Well, coming out of the courthouse that night Miss Gates was—she was goin‘ 
down the steps in front of us, you musta not seen her—she was talking with Miss 
Stephanie Crawford. I heard her say it’s time somebody taught ’em a lesson, they 
were gettin‘ way above themselves, an’ the next thing they think they can do is 
marry us. Jem, how can you hate Hitler so bad an‘ then turn around and be ugly 
about folks right at home—
I never wanta hear about that courthouse again, ever, ever, you hear 
me? You hear me? Don’t you ever say one word to me about it again, you hear? 
Now go on!
You’re getting so big now, I’ll just have to hold a part of you.
Scout,
don’t let Jem get you down. He’s 
having a rough time these days. I heard you back there.
getting
Hush,
chunked at 
her
Just let it be, Mr. Link, 
please suh,
The hell I will,
. On his way back, Mr. Link stopped at the crazy gate.
 “Ewell?” he called. “I say Ewell!”
 The windows, normally packed with children, were empty.
 “I know every last one of you
 on the floor! Now hear me, Bob 
Ewell: if I hear one more peep outa my girl Helen about not bein
Don’t you look at me, Link Deas, like I 
was dirt. I ain’t jumped your—
First thing you can do, Ewell, is get your stinkin‘ carcass off my property. 
You’re leanin’ on it an‘ I can’t afford fresh paint for it. Second thing you can do 
is stay away from my cook or I’ll have you up for assault—
I ain’t touched her, Link Deas, and ain’t about to go with no nigger!
You don’t have to touch her, all you have to do is make her afraid, an‘ if assault 
ain’t enough to keep you locked up awhile, I’ll get you in on the Ladies’ Law, so 
get outa my sight! If you don’t think I mean it, just bother that girl again!
I don’t like it, Atticus, I don’t like it at all,
That man seems to have a permanent running grudge against 
everybody connected with that case. I know how that kind are about paying off 
grudges, but I don’t understand why he should harbor one—he had his way in 
court, didn’t he?
I think I understand,
It might be because he knows in his heart 
that very few people in Maycomb really believed his and Mayella’s yarns. He 
thought he’d be a hero, but all he got for his pain was… was, okay, we’ll convict 
this Negro but get back to your dump. He’s had his fling with about everybody 
now, so he ought to be satisfied. He’ll settle down when the weather changes.
But why should he try to burgle John Taylor’s house? He obviously didn’t know 
John was home or he wouldn’t‘ve tried. Only lights John shows on Sunday nights 
are on the front porch and back in his den…
You don’t know if Bob Ewell cut that screen, you don’t know who did it,
But I can guess. I proved him a liar but John made him look like a fool. 
All the time Ewell was on the stand I couldn’t dare look at John and keep a 
straight face. John looked at him as if he were a three-legged chicken or a square 
egg. Don’t tell me judges don’t try to prejudice juries,
You tell Cecil I’m about as radical as Cotton Tom Heflin.
I heard ‘em!
Heard ’em drive a truck up to the door! Stomped around like 
horses. They’re in New Orleans by now!
Da-rk they were,
Syrians.
Pork,
Maycomb County, Maycomb County, we will aye be true 
to thee,
‘s matter, Aunty?
Oh nothing, nothing,
somebody just walked over my grave.
Po-ork,
Bet nobody bothers 
them tonight,
It is a scary place though, ain’t it?
Boo doesn’t mean anybody any 
harm, but I’m right glad you’re along.
You know Atticus wouldn’t let you go to 
the schoolhouse by yourself,
Don’t see why, it’s just around the corner and across the yard.
That yard’s a mighty long place for little girls to cross at night,
Ain’t you scared of haints?
What was that old thing,
Angel bright, 
life-in-death; get off the road, don’t suck my breath.
Cut it out, now,
Boo must not be at home. Listen.
How do you know where we’re at, Jem?
I can tell we’re under the big oak because we’re passin‘ through a cool spot. 
Careful now, and don’t fall again.
Don’t look ahead, Scout,
Look at the ground 
and you won’t fall.
You should have brought the flashlight, Jem.
Didn’t know it was this dark. Didn’t look like it’d be this dark earlier in the 
evening. So cloudy, that’s why. It’ll hold off a while, though.
God almighty!
Ha
a-a, gotcha!
Thought you’d be comin‘ along this way!
What are you doin‘ way out here by yourself, boy? Ain’t you scared of Boo 
Radley?
Shucks, ain’t much but around the corner,
Who’s scared to go 
around the corner?
Say,
ain’t you a cow tonight? Where’s your costume?
It’s up behind the stage,
Mrs. Merriweather says the pageant ain’t 
comin‘ on for a while. You can put yours back of the stage by mine, Scout, and 
we can go with the rest of ’em.
Oh Jem. I forgot my money,
Atticus didn’t,
Here’s thirty cents, you can do six things. See you 
later on.
Okay,
How much money you got?
Here’s his eyes,
Here’s his heart,
These are his innards,
Ain’t anything around town now to catch,
Somebody’s mashed my costume,
You all right in there, Scout?
You sound so far off, like you was 
on the other side of a hill.
You don’t sound any nearer,
Maycomb County Ad Astra Per Aspera.
That means,
from the mud to the stars.
A 
pageant.
Reckon they wouldn’t know what it was if she didn’t tell ‘em,
The whole town knows it,
But the country folks’ve come in,
Be quiet back there,
Po-ork,
Po-ork?
Pork!
You wanta take it off, Scout?
Naw, I’ll just keep it on,
You all want a ride home?
No sir, thank you,
It’s just a little walk.
Be careful of haints,
Better still, tell the haints to be careful of 
Scout.
There aren’t many folks left now,
Let’s go.
If some of ‘em were goin’ in our direction we 
could see better,
Here Scout, let me hold onto your—hock. You might 
lose your balance.
I can see all right.
Yeah, but you might lose your balance.
You got me?
Uh huh.
Jem,
I forgot my shoes, they’re back behind the stage.
Well let’s go get ‘em.
You can get ’em tomorrow,
But tomorrow’s Sunday,
You can get the Janitor to let you in… Scout?
Hm?
Nothing.
Jem, you don’t hafta
 —
Hush a minute, Scout,
Minute’s up,
Whatcha thinkin‘ about?
Thought I heard something,
Stop a minute.
Hear anything?
No.
Jem, are you tryin‘ to scare me? You know I’m too old—
Be quiet,
Heard an old dog just then,
It’s not that,
I hear it when we’re walkin‘ along, but when we 
stop I don’t hear it.
You hear my costume rustlin‘. Aw, it’s just Halloween got you…
It’s just old Cecil,
He won’t get us again. Let’s don’t let 
him think we’re hurrying.
I can see you, Scout,
How? I can’t see you.
Your fat streaks are showin‘. Mrs. Crenshaw painted ’em with some of that 
shiny stuff so they’d show up under the footlights. I can see you pretty well, an‘ I 
expect Cecil can see you well enough to keep his distance.
Cecil Jacobs is a big wet he-en!
I’ll get him,
He-y!
Scout, can you take that thing off?
I think so, but I ain’t got anything on under it much.
I’ve got your dress here.
I can’t get it on in the dark.
Okay,
never mind.
Jem, are you afraid?
No. Think we’re almost to the tree now. Few yards from that, an‘ we’ll be to the 
road. We can see the street light then.
You reckon we oughta sing, Jem?
No. Be real quiet again, Scout.
Run, Scout! Run! Run!
Jem, Jem, help me, Jem!
Uff!
Jem?
Jem?
Atticus…?
Jem?
Call Dr. Reynolds!
Where’s Scout?
Here she is,
I’m all right, Aunty,
you better call.
Eula May, get Dr. Reynolds, 
quick!
Agnes, is your father home? Oh God, where is he? Please tell him to come over 
here as soon as he comes in. Please, it’s urgent!
Eula May, get me the sheriff, please.
Heck? Atticus Finch. Someone’s been after my children. Jem’s hurt. Between 
here and the schoolhouse. I can’t leave my boy. Run out there for me, please, and 
see if he’s still around. Doubt if you’ll find him now, but I’d like to see him if you 
do. Got to go now. Thanks, Heck.
Atticus, is Jem dead?
No, Scout. Look after her, sister,
Are you all right, darling?
Aunty, is Jem dead?
No—no, darling, he’s unconscious. We won’t know how badly he’s hurt until 
Dr. Reynolds gets here. Jean Louise, what happened?
I don’t know.
Put these on, darling,
Good Lord.
You’re 
still standing,
Is Jem dead?
Far from it,
He’s got a bump on the head just 
like yours, and a broken arm. Scout, look that way—no, don’t turn your head, roll 
your eyes. Now look over yonder. He’s got a bad break, so far as I can tell now 
it’s in the elbow. Like somebody tried to wring his arm off… Now look at me.
Then he’s not dead?
No-o!
We can’t do much tonight,
except try to make him as comfortable as we can. We’ll have to X-ray his arm—
 looks like he’ll be wearing his arm ‘way out by his side for a while. Don’t worry, 
though, he’ll be as good as new. Boys his age bounce.
You don’t feel broke 
anywhere, do you?
Then you don’t think he’s dead, 
then?
Now I may be wrong, of course, but I think he’s very alive. 
Shows all the symptoms of it. Go have a look at him, and when I come back we’ll 
get together and decide.
You all right, Scout?
Yes sir, I’m goin‘ in to see Jem. Atticus’n’them’s in there.
I’ll go with you,
Jem…?
He can’t hear you, Scout, he’s out like a light. He was coming 
around, but Dr. Reynolds put him out again.
Yes sir.
Come in, Heck,
Did you find anything? I can’t conceive of 
anyone low-down enough to do a thing like this, but I hope you found him.
Sit down, Mr. Finch,
Let’s all sit down. Have that chair, Heck. I’ll get another one from 
the livingroom.
Mr. Finch,
tell you what I found. I found a little girl’s dress—
 it’s out there in my car. That your dress, Scout?
Yes sir, if it’s a pink one with smockin‘,
I found some funny-looking pieces of muddy-colored cloth—
That’s m’costume, Mr. Tate.
What is it, Heck?
Bob Ewell’s lyin‘ on the ground under 
that tree down yonder with a kitchen knife stuck up under his ribs. He’s dead, Mr. 
Finch.
Are you sure?
He’s dead all right,
He’s good and dead. He won’t hurt these 
children again.
I didn’t mean that.
Hadn’t we better go to the livingroom?
If you don’t mind,
I’d rather us stay in here if it won’t hurt Jem 
any. I want to have a look at his injuries while Scout… tells us about it.
Is it all right if I leave?
I’m just one person too many in here. I’ll be 
in my room if you want me, Atticus.
Atticus, I had a feeling about this tonight—I—this is my 
fault,
I should have—
You go ahead, Miss Alexandra, I know it’s been a 
shock to you. And don’t you fret yourself about anything—why, if we followed 
our feelings all the time we’d be like cats chasin‘ their tails. Miss Scout, see if 
you can tell us what happened, while it’s still fresh in your mind. You think you 
can? Did you see him following you?
We 
started home. I said Jem, I’ve forgot m’shoes. Soon’s we started back for ‘em the 
lights went out. Jem said I could get ’em tomorrow…
Scout, raise up so Mr. Tate can hear you,
Then Jem said hush a minute. I thought he was thinkin‘—he always wants you to 
hush so he can think—then he said he heard somethin’. We thought it was Cecil.
Cecil?
Cecil Jacobs. He scared us once tonight, an‘ we thought it was him again. He 
had on a sheet. They gave a quarter for the best costume, I don’t know who won it
 —
Where were you when you thought it was Cecil?
Just a little piece from the schoolhouse. I yelled somethin‘ at him—
You yelled, what?
Cecil Jacobs is a big fat hen, I think. We didn’t hear nothin‘—then Jem yelled 
hello or somethin’ loud enough to wake the dead—
Just a minute, Scout,
Mr. Finch, did you hear them?
I always play a radio too loud.
I wonder if the neighbors heard anything…
I doubt it, Heck. Most of them listen to their radios or go to bed with the 
chickens. Maudie Atkinson may have been up, but I doubt it.
Go ahead, Scout,
Well, after Jem yelled we walked on. Mr. Tate, I was shut up in my costume but 
I could hear it myself, then. Footsteps, I mean. They walked when we walked and 
stopped when we stopped. Jem said he could see me because Mrs. Crenshaw put 
some kind of shiny paint on my costume. I was a ham.
How’s that?
You 
should have seen her when she came in,
it was crushed to a pulp.
I wondered why he had those marks on him, His 
sleeves were perforated with little holes. There were one or two little puncture 
marks on his arms to match the holes. Let me see that thing if you will, sir.
This thing probably saved her life,
Look.
Bob Ewell meant business,
He was out of his mind,
Don’t like to contradict you, Mr. Finch—wasn’t crazy, mean as hell. Low-down 
skunk with enough liquor in him to make him brave enough to kill children. He’d 
never have met you face to face.
I can’t conceive of a man who’d—
Mr. Finch, there’s just some kind of men you have to shoot before you can say 
hidy to ‘em. Even then, they ain’t worth the bullet it takes to shoot ’em. Ewell ‘as 
one of ’em.
I thought he got it all out of him the day he threatened me. Even if 
he hadn’t, I thought he’d come after me.
He had guts enough to pester a poor colored woman, he had guts enough to 
pester Judge Taylor when he thought the house was empty, so do you think he’da 
met you to your face in daylight?
We’d better get on. Scout, 
you heard him behind you—
Yes sir. When we got under the tree—
How’d you know you were under the tree, you couldn’t see thunder out there.
I was barefooted, and Jem says the ground’s always cooler under a tree.
We’ll have to make him a deputy, go ahead.
Then all of a sudden somethin‘ grabbed me an’ mashed my costume… think I 
ducked on the ground… heard a tusslin‘ under the tree sort of… they were 
bammin’ against the trunk, sounded like. Jem found me and started pullin‘ me 
toward the road. Some—Mr. Ewell yanked him down, I reckon. They tussled 
some more and then there was this funny noise—Jem hollered…
Anyway, Jem hollered and I didn’t hear him any more an‘ the next thing—Mr. 
Ewell was tryin’ to squeeze me to death, I reckon… then somebody yanked Mr. 
Ewell down. Jem must have got up, I guess. That’s all I know…
And then?
Somebody was staggerin‘ around and pantin’ and—coughing fit to die. I thought 
it was Jem at first, but it didn’t sound like him, so I went lookin‘ for Jem on the 
ground. I thought Atticus had come to help us and had got wore out—
Who was it?
Why there he is, Mr. Tate, he can tell you his name.
Hey, Boo,
Mr. Arthur, honey,
Jean Louise, this is Mr. 
Arthur Radley. I believe he already knows you.
Ah-ah, don’t touch him,
Everybody out,
Evenin‘, Arthur, didn’t notice 
you the first time I was here.
You’re quite satisfied he’s alive, now? Tell 
you how I knew. When I tried to examine him he kicked me. Had to put him out 
good and proper to touch him. So scat,
Er—
Heck, let’s go out on the front porch. 
There are plenty of chairs out there, and it’s still warm enough.
Come along, Mr. Arthur,
you don’t 
know the house real well. I’ll just take you to the porch, sir.
Won’t you have a seat, Mr. Arthur? This rocking-chair’s nice and comfortable.
Well, Heck,
I guess the thing to do—good Lord, I’m 
losing my memory…
Jem’s not quite thirteen… no, he’s already thirteen—I can’t remember. 
Anyway, it’ll come before county court—
What will, Mr. Finch?
Of course it was clear-cut self defense, but I’ll have to go to the office and hunt 
up—
Mr. Finch, do you think Jem killed Bob Ewell? Do you think that?
You heard what Scout said, there’s no doubt about it. She said Jem got up and 
yanked him off her—he probably got hold of Ewell’s knife somehow in the 
dark… we’ll find out tomorrow.
Mis-ter Finch, hold on,
Jem never stabbed Bob Ewell.
Heck, it’s mighty kind of you and I know you’re doing it from that good heart of 
yours, but don’t start anything like that.
Like what?
I’m sorry if I spoke sharply, Heck,
but nobody’s hushing 
this up. I don’t live that way.
Nobody’s gonna hush anything up, Mr. Finch.
H’rm,
Heck, you haven’t said it, but I know what you’re thinking. Thank you for it. 
Jean Louise—
You said Jem yanked Mr. Ewell off you?
Yes sir, that’s what I thought… I—
See there, Heck? Thank you from the bottom of my heart, but I don’t want my 
boy starting out with something like this over his head. Best way to clear the air is 
to have it all out in the open. Let the county come and bring sandwiches. I don’t 
want him growing up with a whisper about him, I don’t want anybody saying, 
‘Jem Finch… his daddy paid a mint to get him out of that.’ Sooner we get this 
over with the better.
Mr. Finch,
Bob Ewell fell on his knife. He killed 
himself.
Heck,
If this thing’s hushed up it’ll be a simple 
denial to Jem of the way I’ve tried to raise him. Sometimes I think I’m a total 
failure as a parent, but I’m all they’ve got. Before Jem looks at anyone else he 
looks at me, and I’ve tried to live so I can look squarely back at him… if I 
connived at something like this, frankly I couldn’t meet his eye, and the day I 
can’t do that I’ll know I’ve lost him. I don’t want to lose him and Scout, because 
they’re all I’ve got.
Mr. Finch.
Bob Ewell fell on his 
knife. I can prove it.
Heck, can’t you even 
try to see it my way? You’ve got children of your own, but I’m older than you. 
When mine are grown I’ll be an old man if I’m still around, but right now I’m—if 
they don’t trust me they won’t trust anybody. Jem and Scout know what 
happened. If they hear of me saying downtown something different happened—
 Heck, I won’t have them any more. I can’t live one way in town and another way 
in my home.
He’d flung Jem down, he 
stumbled over a root under that tree and—look, I can show you.
The son—deceased’s under that tree, 
doctor, just inside the schoolyard. Got a flashlight? Better have this one.
I can ease around and turn my car lights on,
Jem’s all right. He won’t wake up tonight, I hope, so don’t 
worry. That the knife that killed him, Heck?
No sir, still in him. Looked like a kitchen knife from the handle. Ken oughta be 
there with the hearse by now, doctor, ‘night.
It was like this,
See there? Stabbed himself through that soft stuff between his ribs. His 
whole weight drove it in.
Scout is eight years 
old,
She was too scared to know exactly what went on.
You’d be surprised,
I’m not sayin‘ she made it up, I’m sayin’ she was too scared to know exactly 
what happened. It was mighty dark out there, black as ink. ‘d take somebody 
mighty used to the dark to make a competent witness…
I won’t have it,
God damn it, I’m not thinking of Jem!
Mr. Finch, I hate to 
fight you when you’re like this. You’ve been under a strain tonight no man should 
ever have to go through. Why you ain’t in the bed from it I don’t know, but I do 
know that for once you haven’t been able to put two and two together, and we’ve 
got to settle this tonight because tomorrow’ll be too late. Bob Ewell’s got a 
kitchen knife in his craw.
Heck,
that was a switchblade you were waving. Where’d 
you get it?
Took it off a drunk man,
Heck?
I said I took it off a drunk man downtown tonight. Ewell probably found that 
kitchen knife in the dump somewhere. Honed it down and bided his time… just 
bided his time.
It ain’t your decision, Mr. Finch, it’s 
all mine. It’s my decision and my responsibility. For once, if you don’t see it my 
way, there’s not much you can do about it. If you wanta try, I’ll call you a liar to 
your face. Your boy never stabbed Bob Ewell,
didn’t come near 
a mile of it and now you know it. All he wanted to do was get him and his sister 
safely home.
I’m not a very good man, sir, but I am sheriff of Maycomb County. Lived in this 
town all my life an‘ I’m goin’ on forty-three years old. Know everything that’s 
happened here since before I was born. There’s a black boy dead for no reason, 
and the man responsible for it’s dead. Let the dead bury the dead this time, Mr. 
Finch. Let the dead bury the dead.
I never heard tell that it’s against the law for a citizen to do his utmost to prevent 
a crime from being committed, which is exactly what he did, but maybe you’ll 
say it’s my duty to tell the town all about it and not hush it up. Know what’d 
happen then? All the ladies in Maycomb includin‘ my wife’d be knocking on his 
door bringing angel food cakes. To my way of thinkin’, Mr. Finch, taking the one 
man who’s done you and this town a great service an‘ draggin’ him with his shy 
ways into the limelight—to me, that’s a sin. It’s a sin and I’m not about to have it 
on my head. If it was any other man, it’d be different. But not this man, Mr. 
Finch.
I may not be much, Mr. Finch, but I’m 
still sheriff of Maycomb County and Bob Ewell fell on his knife. Good night, sir.
Scout,
Mr. Ewell fell on his knife. Can you possibly understand?
Yes sir, I understand,
Mr. Tate 
was right.
What do you mean?
Well, it’d be sort of like shootin‘ a mockingbird, wouldn’t it?
Thank you for my children, 
Arthur,
You’d like to say good night to Jem, wouldn’t you, Mr. Arthur? Come right in.
Come in, 
Arthur,
He’s still asleep. Dr. Reynolds gave him a heavy sedative. 
Jean Louise, is your father in the livingroom?
Yes ma’am, I think so.
I’ll just go speak to him a minute. Dr. Reynolds left some…
You can pet him, Mr. Arthur, he’s asleep. You couldn’t if he was awake, though, 
he wouldn’t let you…
Go ahead.
Go on, sir, he’s asleep.
Will you take me home?
Mr. Arthur, bend your arm down here, like that. That’s right, sir.
Is Jem awake yet?
Sleeping peacefully. He won’t be awake until morning.
Oh. Are you sittin‘ up with him?
Just for an hour or so. Go to bed, Scout. You’ve had a long day.
Well, I think I’ll stay with you for a while.
Suit yourself,
Whatcha readin‘?
Something of Jem’s. Called The Gray Ghost.
Why’d you get that one?
Honey, I don’t know. Just picked it up. One of the few things I haven’t read,
Read it out loud, please, Atticus. It’s real scary.
No,
You’ve had enough scaring for a while. This is too—
Atticus, I wasn’t scared.
Leastways not till I started telling Mr. 
Tate about it. Jem wasn’t scared. Asked him and he said he wasn’t. Besides, 
nothin’s real scary except in books.
H’rm,
The Gray Ghost, by Seckatary 
Hawkins. Chapter One…
Heard every word you said,
…
 wasn’t sleep at all, ‘s about a ship an’ Three-Fingered Fred ‘n’ Stoner’s Boy…
Yeah, an‘ they all thought it was Stoner’s Boy messin’ up their clubhouse an‘ 
throwin’ ink all over it an‘…
An‘ they chased him ’n‘ never could catch him ’cause they didn’t know what he 
looked like, an‘ Atticus, when they finally saw him, why he hadn’t done any of 
those things… Atticus, he was real nice…
Most people are, Scout, when you finally see them.
